
O my God, my God! Aid this maid-servant of Thine to exalt Thy Word among the maid-servants, and cause her to speak Thy praise amongst all people.   AB03560

My God, my God! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden...   BH03770

This is one of Thy handmaidens who hath believed in Thy most wondrous signs  BH07722

O God! Endear this distinguished and loving maid servant of God in Thy Kingdom  AB12780

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens  BH07799

O My handmaiden and My leaf! Hearken unto My call from the direction of My prison.   BH06809

And the Spirit be upon thee and upon those women who remember their Lord at all times   BH03229

I hope that the handmaidens of God become centers of the emanation of this endless light.  AB07433

We beseech God to assist His handmaidens to preserve that which He hath bestowed upon them   BH08030

O handmaiden of God...Do with this handmaiden of Thine as beseemeth Thy generosity and grace.   BH03628

Therefore, entreat God to become the sign of greatness and the dawning place of supreme bounty.  AB05336

And mercy be upon thee and upon those women who have turned their faces toward the countenance of God   BH09757

O handmaidens of the All-Merciful! Raise your hands in supplication to the court of the Self-Sufficing Lord  AB09158

And the Spirit be upon thee and upon such handmaidens as God hath purified from the deeds of the polytheists   BH08055

This is one of Thy handmaidens - enable her to attain unto that which Thou hast ordained for her in Thy days.  BH06571

Glory be upon thee and upon her and upon those handmaidens who have believed in God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH04314

The glory proceeding from Us rest upon thee and upon those women who have believed in God in their final abode  BH07346

And remembrance and mercy be upon thee and upon those handmaidens who glorify their Lord morning and evening.   BH06430

O handmaidens of the All-Merciful! Raise your hands in supplication to the court of the Self-Sufficient Lord...  AB09158

Beseech God that all handmaidens may attain unto what God has willed and act according to that which is beloved.   BH10215

Make this little maidservant of Thine blessed and happy; cause her to be cherished at the threshold of Thy oneness  AB10685

[The entire prayer is for a female supplicant, referred to as "this handmaiden" and using feminine pronouns throughout]  BH04475

O My handmaiden! Hearken unto the call of God. Verily it hath been raised in truth, but most of the people are heedless.   BH09346

O God of existence and Source of generosity! I beseech Thee...to aid me and Thy handmaidens to be steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH07902

I pray God to make thee a maid-servant whose garment shall be faithfulness and the crown of her head the love of El-Baha.  AB04597

O leaf! Hearken thou unto My call, then remember thy Lord in the evening and at dawn, for He loveth those who remember Him.   BH06786

O incomparable Lord! These leaves are the signs of Thy love and these handmaidens are words full of meaning and loving kindness.  AB03783

O Lord! Assist us through Thy all-encompassing power to serve at the gate of Thy oneness. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful.  AB03090

Entire prayer is addressed for a female believer named 'Abdu'llah, asking for her protection, spiritual elevation and enduring mention  BH06583

"engage day and night in humble entreaty and supplication. Show forth meekness and need, and become the intimate companion of prayer."  AB09175

I beseech Thee...to send down upon this handmaiden of Thine from the kingdom of Thy power that which beseemeth Thy bounty and Thy grace   BH10584

O One God! Drive not Thy handmaiden from the Kingdom of nearness. Thou art the Lord of bounty and the Sovereign of the Kingdom of names.  BH05329

O God my God! Thou seest one of Thy leaves who hath turned toward the Tree of Thy Cause and hath drawn nigh unto Thy most exalted horizon  BH04952

And mercy be upon thee and upon all those women who have wholly turned unto God, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Most Generous.  BH10769

This is a Book from Us to her who hath believed in her Lord...And the Spirit and Glory be upon those handmaidens who have believed in God   BH09058

My God, my God! This is a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens and a leaf among Thy leaves who hath inhaled the fragrance of Thy Revelation...  BH08650

O Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. I have turned to Thee, hoping for the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty.   BH05433

O ye pure handmaidens of the Blessed Beauty! Praised and glorified be God that ye have attained the stations of nearness to the All-Glorious  AB06165

O Faran, maidservant of God who is attracted to Him and accepted by Him...this is Your maidservant who has been ignited by the fire of Your love  AB11726

O my Lord! On this blessed day, deprive not Thy handmaidens, and from the Supreme Pen record the reward of attainment unto Thy presence for all.   BH05327

This is a leaf who hath sought Thy face... Then grant her what Thou hast ordained in the heaven of Thy grace for the choicest of Thy handmaidens.   BH10282

O my God, my Lord, and my Desire! I beseech Thee...that Thou make me among those handmaidens who have believed in Thee and attained unto Thy presence   BH07407

This is a handmaiden who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs... How great is Thy care for her condition, and how mighty is Thy favor toward her soul   BH05440

"Glory to Thee, O my God! One of Thy handmaidens, who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, hath entered beneath the shadow of the tree of Thy oneness."  BH08852

This is one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned unto Thee, acknowledged Thy oneness and confessed Thy singleness, and whom sorrows have overtaken in Thy path.   BH05075

O my God! These are the five leaves from the tree of Thy mercy and the five handmaidens at the sacred threshold of Thy oneness...Verily, Thou art the Chooser!  AB07859

This is a Book from the Prisoner to the handmaidens of God that they may praise God every morning and evening, and may be steadfast in His Cause and His love.   BH09063

O my Lord! Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who have believed in Thee and in Thy laws, who have circled round Thy will and Thy purpose   BH07739

O my God, my God! Withhold not this handmaiden from the heaven of Thy bounty and deprive her not of the ocean of Thy generosity. Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty.   BH09170

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Aid Thy handmaidens to be steadfast in Thy Cause, to turn their faces toward Thy countenance, and to gaze upon the horizon of Thy favors.  BH09850

O Lord! The hearts of Thy handmaidens are set ablaze in Thy days. I beseech Thee to honor them with Thy presence or to ordain for them the reward of attaining unto Thee.  BH09522

"O Maryam Sultan Bigum...I beseech Thee to number me among those who circle round Thy throne, then ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the next."   BH09485

O God! Protect Thy leaves from the transgressors amidst Thy handmaids who have turned away from Thy Beauty, giving allegiance to those who have refuted Thee and Thy Signs.  BH04427

We make mention of the handmaidens of God in that place and beseech God to ordain for them what He hath ordained for the devoted ones. Verily, He hath power over all things.  BH01474

My God, my God, my Lord and my Support! Thou seest one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned toward the horizon of Thy Revelation, after most of the men of Thy earth turned away...   BH08652

The Glory be upon thee and upon every maidservant who hath believed in God, and upon My maidservant who attained in Zawra and heard the call of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH06617

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided Thy handmaidens to Thy straight path... O my Lord! Ordain for her that which will abide with her in every world of Thy worlds."   BH10045

O handmaid of God, upon whom Baha'u'llah hath showered His blessings...Ordain for her, O Thou Who art the Ruler of all names, from the Supreme Pen that which will gladden her heart.  BH08275

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having remembered me in the prison and for having sent down for this Thy handmaiden that which shall endure in her name among Thy handmaidens.   BH05760

I beseech Thee...to send down upon her who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs every good thing which Thou hast ordained for Thy sanctified handmaidens in the most exalted chambers.   BH09846

O Lord! Look with the glance of Thy mercy upon this handmaiden who hath stood before the door of Thy grace and clung to the cord of Thy bounty. Then ordain for her that which is best for her  BH08435

O Lord! Ordain for Thy Leaves that which will exalt them through Thy name amongst Thy handmaidens. Then write down for them the reward of attaining Thy presence and standing before Thy face.  BH07472

"O My handmaiden! Upon thee be My glory and My loving-kindness... Blessed is the handmaiden who hath attained unto My days and hath drunk the choice wine of love from the cup of My bounty..."   BH05946

This is a handmaiden who hath believed in the beauty of Thy oneness, who hath testified to Thy words, who hath held fast to the cord of Thy bounty, and who hath endured afflictions in Thy path  AB10331

O handmaid of God, Hajiyih Bibi Sahib, may the glory of God rest upon her! He is God! O thou pure leaf! Raise thy hands in supplication to the threshold of Oneness and begin thy humble entreaty  AB10142

This is a leaf from among the leaves of the Tree of Thy Paradise... hoping from Thy boundless mercies and infinite compassions that Thou wilt cause her to enter the garden of Thy sanctification   BH10827

O Lord, Lord! These are handmaidens, devoted, attracted, and enkindled with the fire of Your love. Assist them with the angels of the Spirit and confirm them with the breaths of the Holy Spirit   AB01022

This is one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned unto Thee, believed in Thy signs, and sought Thy presence and meeting with Thee. Write down for her, O my God, that which she desireth in Thy path.   BH09920

My God, my God! I am a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens and a leaf among Thy leaves. I have turned with my heart unto Thee and raised the hands of hope toward the heaven of Thy grace and bounty...  BH05879

O my Lord! This is one of Thy handmaidens and a leaf from the leaves of Thy Divine Lote-Tree, and she seeketh Thy all-encompassing grace which hath surrounded the dwellers of Thy earth and heaven.   BH06589

We beseech God to ordain for them the reward of attaining His presence, to adorn them with the Greatest Infallibility, and to aid them to observe that which He hath revealed in His Perspicuous Book  BH06005

to ordain from the Supreme Pen for Thy handmaidens that which will draw them nigh unto the shore of the sea of Thy oneness and grant them what Thou hast destined for Thy trusted ones and chosen ones   BH10298

O My handmaiden! Hearken unto the Call from the precincts of the Prison, from the glowing, luminous Fire... I beseech Thee by Him and by Him Whom Thou hast willed, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH06767

Ask thou God, glorified be His majesty, Who speaketh at this moment, to assist the handmaidens of that land to do what He loveth and pleaseth, and to draw them to the realm of sanctity and detachment.   BH07334

O my God! O my God! Aid this handmaiden of Thine to be sincere in Thy religion, and ordain for her deliverance from the evil of Thine enemies. Protect her in the sanctuary of Thy protection and Thy love  AB12745

O Lord! This is one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned unto Thee when she heard Thy call. Write down for her what Thou hast written for Thy handmaidens who have circumambulated the throne of Thy grandeur  BH09083

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath subdued all created things, and by Thy mercy which hath preceded all contingent beings, to assist Thy leaves and handmaidens to remember and praise Thee.  BH08890

My God, my God! These are handmaidens who have been attracted to the Kingdom of Beauty... Make them leaves of the Tree of the All-Merciful, fruits of the Tree of Oneness, flowers of the Garden of Unity...  AB12640

O my handmaid and my leaf! We have heard thy call and have made mention of thee from the Most Great Prison. We beseech God to confirm thee in steadfastness and to aid thee in that which befitteth His Day.   BH04378

O Lord! This leaf is stirred by the breezes of Thy love upon the tree of Thy knowledge. O Lord! Make her verdant and fresh through the outpouring of the clouds of Thy bounty. Verily, Thou art the All-Merciful.  AB11363

O Lord my God! Thou seest that one of Thy maidservants hath turned unto the Dayspring of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy loving-kindness...Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Great.  BH08253

O handmaiden of God, pure and sanctified leaf, wife of His Holiness Ali-Akbar, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God... Aid her to that which Thou lovest and approvest in Thy earthly and heavenly dominions.   AB04173

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy handmaiden who hath turned toward the horizon of Thy Revelation to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy handmaidens. Then open before her face the gate of Thy bounty.   BH08821

This is a leaf from the leaves of the trees in the garden of Thy Cause and a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens who hath turned unto Thee... O Lord! Enable me to remember Thee and praise Thee among Thy handmaidens.   BH05401

O My leaf, O My handmaiden, O My spiritual one! He hath made mention of thee, before and after, with that which its fragrance shall never be cut off, and hath revealed for thee that whose decree shall never change.   BH09171

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to ordain for you what He has ordained for the leaves who circle round the Will of God, the Lord of the worlds, and to open before your face the gates of grace and bounty.   BH09095

preserve this handmaiden of Thine from vain imaginings and idle fancies. O Lord! Cause her to turn unto Thee and to gaze toward Thy horizon. Ordain for her that which will assist her to remain steadfast in Thy Cause   BH06189

O Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. I have turned to Thee and have held fast to the cord of Thy bounty. Ordain for me that whereby faith may be preserved, for verily Thou art the All-Merciful.  BH10373

O Lord! Have mercy upon every maidservant who hath turned unto Thee, heard Thy call, and responded to the Manifestation of Thy Self. Then write down for her what Thou hast written for Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones.   BH08239

O Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. I beseech Thee by Thy resplendent Light and Thy gleaming Name to ordain for me that which shall enable me to remember Thee, praise Thee and serve Thy Cause.  BH05240

O my God and my Lord! By Your Command that has encompassed all created things, and by Your Name through which You have subdued all contingent beings, I beseech You to ordain for this leaf of Yours the best of both worlds.   BH09620

O Thou kind God, suffer this maidservant of the threshold to become heavenly, angelic, merciful and celestial. Confer Thy providence upon her, reveal to her Thy mercy, Thy clemency, and aid her in the service of the Kingdom.  AB09373

I continually offer prayers at the divine threshold and express my utter helplessness and need, that successive confirmations may reach you and the lights of divine assistance may shine forth from the horizon of the unseen.   AB04254

One of Thy handmaidens hath believed in Thee in this Revelation... Protect her from the assaults of the evil ones who call the people unto other than Thee. Comfort her eyes, O my God, by gazing upon the horizon of Thy favors.   BH09865

O Lord! O All-Bountiful! These handmaidens of the All-Merciful have set their hearts upon Thee...Make these handmaidens independent of all save Thee, and cause these maidservants to become denizens of the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB12812

Bestow heavenly confirmation upon this daughter of the Kingdom and graciously aid her that she may remain firm and steadfast in Thy Cause...Make her exalted among the daughters of the Kingdom and enable her to attain life eternal.  AB10492

O believing ladies! With all humility and contrition, I supplicate to the Kingdom of the Mighty, the All-Compelling, with lowered wing, beseeching success and prosperity for you. Verily, my Lord is kind to you, forgiving toward you  AB10176

O my God and my Beloved! I hear Thy call from the direction of the Prison, the place wherein the Throne of Thy grandeur and power hath been established. O Lord! Enable me to remember Thee in Thy days and praise Thee among Thy handmaidens.   BH06272

O my Lord! Disappoint me not of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, and withhold not from me that which Thou hast desired for Thy handmaidens who have voiced Thy mention and praise and who have circled round Thy mighty throne  BH05121

"My God, my God! Thou seest a handmaiden from among Thy handmaidens and a leaf among Thy leaves who hath turned toward the horizon of Thy manifestation, and hath heard Thy sweetest call, and hath witnessed Thy signs, O Lord of all beings!"   BH07337

O my God! Thou seest Thy maidservant who is believing in Thee and in Thy signs, and who is supplicating at the gate of Thy oneness. Ordain for her every good through Thy grace and generosity. Verily, Thou art the Bestower, the All-Bountiful.  AB11324

Then ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for those devoted women who, upon hearing the call, responded "Here am I, O Lord of the Kingdom of Names!" and "Here am I, O Thou in Whose grasp lieth the reins of all on earth and in heaven!"   BH06224

I am a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens who hath turned unto Thee and faced the Source of Thy Cause and the Repository of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who have heard Thy call   BH09382

Envelop his noble spouse, the leaf of Thy Lote-Tree of the Uttermost End, with the lights of glory and majesty, and shade her with the clouds of might and beauty, and crown her head with the diadem of Thy mighty grace, O Thou Lord of the mystics.  AB00559

This is a leaf among Thy leaves whom the wine of Thy bounty hath so inebriated that she hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs and hath turned toward Thy horizon. O Lord! Ordain for her that which will confirm her in steadfastness in Thy Cause and in Thy love.   BH06028

O handmaiden of God! The Lord of Names remembers thee from this remote station. Rejoice thou in this bounty whereby have been gladdened the eyes of My handmaidens who have turned with their hearts to the Most Exalted Horizon and have spoken My beautiful praise.   BH09006

Glory be unto Thee, O my God and my Beloved! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Bounty, and by Thy Most Great Name, the Most Glorious, and by the power of Thy Most Exalted Word, to ordain for this handmaiden of Thine the good of this world and of the world to come.  BH08990

O my Lord! Thou seest that the Dawning-Place of Thy signs in this Prison maketh mention of one of Thy handmaidens, and this is due solely to her having turned toward the direction of Thy bestowals. O my Lord! Aid her to stand firm in the Most Great Steadfastness.  BH07676

O my God, my Lord, my Master and my King! I testify that Thou hast manifested Thyself and sent down Thy verses and Thy proof and revealed that which was hidden in Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and displayed Thy power in such wise that necks have bowed before it...   BH05199

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the pavilion of Thy glory and the tabernacles of Thy grandeur to protect this Thy handmaiden through the hosts of Thine invisible realm, and to open before her face the door of Thy grace, the door of Thy mercy, and the door of Thy bounty.  BH05777

I beseech Thee... to make such of Thy handmaidens as have been touched by tribulations in Thy path to be numbered among the denizens of the Most Glorious Paradise. Then send down upon them at all times that which will preserve them from turning to any one except Thee.   BH10275

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Thou seest how one of Thy leaves hath clung to the Tree of Thy Lordship, hath voiced Thy praise, and turned unto Thee when she heard Thy call...Then ordain for her in the Supreme Tablet that which shall gladden her eyes and rejoice her heart.  BH06578

This is one of Thy handmaidens, a ray from Thy rays, and a melody from Thy melodies, who was born in Thy days... Therefore, O my God, protect her through Thy power, then give her to drink from the cups of Thy loving-kindness, and honor her dwelling place through Thy might   BH10332

Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God! I am one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned her face toward the court of Thy favors...O Lord! Cast not Thy handmaiden away from the door of Thy bounty, and grant her that which shall cause her to endure through the endurance of Thy sovereignty.  BH04641

"My God, my God! Thou seest Thy handmaiden who hath turned unto Thee and directed herself toward the horizon of Thy Manifestation. I beseech Thee not to disappoint her of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who circle round Thy most great throne at morn and eventide."  BH06341

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to ordain for His turned-towards handmaidens that which He hath ordained for His handmaidens who circle round the Throne by night and by day, and to decree for thee from His Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and of the world to come.  BH06325

God hath exempted women who are in their courses from obligatory prayer and fasting. Let them, instead, after performance of their ablutions, give praise unto God, repeating ninety-five times between the noon of one day and the next Glorified be God, the Lord of Splendour and Beauty.  BH00001

O My Leaf! O My handmaiden! Say: Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the wine of Thy knowledge, and for having guided me to Thy path, and shown me Thy signs, and sent down upon me from the heaven of Thy generosity the tokens of Thy greatness.   BH05626

O my Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. Ordain for me from the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy generosity that which shall solace mine eyes and the eyes of Thy handmaidens. Then send down upon us from the heaven of Thy grace a mercy from Thy presence.   BH04062

O God! This is Your handmaiden who has believed in the Dawning Place of the Sun of Your Singleness and the Rising Point of the Luminary of Your Oneness... O Lord! Aid her in that which You love and are pleased with, and strengthen her with mighty power to remain firm in Your Covenant and Testament   AB05490

Thou seest a handmaiden from among the leaves of the Tree of Thy Revelation, who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs and in what Thou hast sent down in Thy Books... Thou seest one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned toward the cloud of Thy mercy that it may rain upon her the showers of Thy grace.   BH08844

O Baha'u'llah! Thanks be to Thee that these handmaidens are attracted to Thee and are turned toward Thy Kingdom. They have no purpose save Thy good pleasure and seek no station except service to Thy Cause. O Baha'u'llah! Confirm these cherished handmaidens and make these earthly daughters celestial.  AB06667

O my Lord! I am a handmaiden who hath turned toward the heaven of Thy bounty and the horizon of Thy Manifestation. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Pen to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs and who have circled round Thy throne.  BH10427

O God of Heaven! I beseech Thee and implore of Thee but one request, and it is that Thou make me steadfast in Thy Cause and Thy love, for I have recognized through Thy grace that Thy Cause is mighty, mighty indeed. I ask Thee to assist me and enable me to do that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH07086

O assured and confident leaf! In truth, you are present at all times in the blessed spot in the gathering of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, and you are manifest and apparent in the assembly of the leaves of paradise, for your remembrance is their companion and your mention is their intimate friend.   AB06981

One of Thy handmaidens, O my Lord, hath sought Thy face, and soared in the atmosphere of Thy pleasure. Withhold not from her, O my Lord, the things Thou didst ordain for the chosen ones among Thy handmaidens. Enable her, then, to be so attracted by Thine utterances that she will celebrate Thy praise amongst them.   BH10231

"This is My sister who hath believed in the Manifestations of Thy unity appearing in the garments of Thy eternity and recognized the Dawning-places of Thy constancy in the holy temples of Thy sovereignty. She hath ascended to the station that is detached from all save Thee and hath returned from Thee toward Thee."  BH07724

Therefore, O Kind Friend, make this maidservant radiant in Thy Kingdom of mercy and grant this handmaiden a dwelling and refuge in the proximity of Thy bounty. Make her the envy of those who dwell behind the veils in the pavilion of glory and the object of jealousy of the ladies in the tabernacles of sovereignty.   AB05110

This is a maidservant who hath supplicated at Thy door, who hath beseeched Thee, who hath been attracted by the sweet savors of Thy love, and who hath been set ablaze with the fire of Thy affection. O Lord! Dilate her breast through the light of Thy knowledge and cause her to speak Thy praise amidst Thy handmaidens.  AB11258

Thou seest Thy handmaiden turning unto Thee, holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty, and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy grace and generosity. I beseech Thee by the hidden gifts of Thy bounty and the manifest tokens of Thy grace, that Thou disappoint me not of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens   BH06193

I beseech Thee by Thy Light that shineth from the Supreme Horizon, and by Him through Whom all things have proclaimed, that Thou assist Thy handmaidens to remember Thee and praise Thee and to stand firm in Thy Cause. Then inscribe for them through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of the world to come and of this world.   BH05775

O my Lord and my Hope! Perfume the nostrils of this Thy maidservant with the holy fragrances of Thy forgiveness, illuminate her countenance with the lights of Thy bounty, cause her to enter the paradise of Thy mercy, shelter her in the precincts of Thy Kingdom, and honor her dwelling place through Thy grace and favor.  AB04073

O my Lord! Deprive not Thy handmaiden of the ocean of Thy bounty and drive her not from the door of Thy grace. O my Lord! Thou seest that she hath turned unto the Kaaba of Thy knowledge and asked for the wonders of Thy gifts. I beseech Thee to ordain for her from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which beseemeth Thy sovereignty.   BH08472

O my Lord! This is a leaf from among the leaves of Thy Lote-Tree and a handmaiden from among Thy handmaidens, whom Thou hast related unto Thyself as a bounty from Thee. O my Lord! Protect her, then, within the fortress of Thy protection, and grant her that which Thou hast ordained for Thy leaves from Thy Most Exalted Pen.   BH10297

O God! Draw these handmaidens near in Thy sacred court and grant these leaves a dwelling in Thy Most Great Tree. Guide these birds to Thy garden of unity and cause these attracted ones to burn in the fire of Thy brilliant manifestations. Make them senseless from the cup of certitude and intoxicated from the wine of explanation.  AB07199

This is a handmaiden who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, who hath been afflicted with the hardships of journeying in Thy path, who hath yearned to draw nigh unto Thy mercy, and who hath longed to behold the beauty of Thy oneness. O Lord! Give her to drink, through Thy bounty and favor, from the wine of Thy tender mercies.  AB11048

"I implore Thee, O Thou Fashioner of the nations and the King of eternity, to guard Thy handmaidens within the tabernacle of Thy chastity, and to cancel such of their deeds as are unworthy of Thy days. Purge out, then, from them, O my God, all doubts and idle fancies, and sanctify them from whatsoever becometh not their kinship with Thee"   BH09399

O my God! At this moment I call upon Thee, by the mysteries of the might of Thy Lordship and the signs of Thy holy Self-Subsistence, to make this handmaiden one of Thy maidservants, then choose her for Thy service, then send down upon her that which will comfort her eyes, give rest to her soul, tranquilize her spirit and gladden her being.  BH11907

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy greatest signs and by the breaths of Thy days, O Thou Owner of Names, to ordain through Thy pervading power for Thy handmaiden that which will profit her and draw her near unto Thee. Verily Thou art the One with power over whatsoever Thou willest. There is no God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH09715

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy sanctification of Thine Essence from all similitudes and Thy protection of Thy Self from all likenesses, to assist Thy handmaidens in Thy remembrance and praise, and ordain for them that which will draw them nigh unto the shore of the ocean of Thy sanctification and the depths of Thy bounty and generosity.  BH08510

My God, my God! I render thanks unto Thee for having remembered Thy handmaiden in the Most Great Prison and for having revealed for her that which no mention among mentions can equal. I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Thy Revelation, to aid Thy male and female servants in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH08661

I beseech Thee by the Word through which the sincere hastened to the place of sacrifice in Thy days, and by the mysteries of Thy Book and the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, to assist her to remember Thee and praise Thee and to stand firm in Thy Cause. Then ordain for her what Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who circle round the throne of Thy grandeur.   BH09863

O my Lord! This is a handmaiden who hath believed in the Manifestation of Thy Self, who hath detached herself from all else save Thee, and who hath turned toward the countenance of Thy mercy, beseeching Thy protection in the shelter of Thy bounty and Thy safeguarding. O my Lord! Guard her with the eye of Thy care and behold her with the glance of Thy merciful Presence.  AB10505

O Thou Beloved of the world...I beseech Thee by Thy name through which Thou hast conquered all the dwellers of earth and heaven, to ordain for me and for Thy handmaids that which will draw them close to Thee in every world of Thy worlds. Write down, then, for me and for them, from Thy Supreme Pen, that which will be of benefit to me and to them in this world and the next.   BH09182

I beseech Thee...to cause Thy handmaidens to drink from the Salsabil of Thy remembrance and the Kawthar of Thy love. Then make them, O my God, bearers of glad tidings in Thy days, celebrators of Thy praise, preserved from all that Thy good-pleasure abhorreth, circumambulating around Thy Will, and turned toward the Dawning-Place of Thy Purpose and the Dayspring of Thy Decree.  BH10591

O my God! This is a verdant leaf in the gardens of divine knowledge. Pour forth upon her from the clouds of Thy mercy the rain of grace and bounty, that she may be refreshed by the waters of existence among the people of prostration, O Thou Who art the Lord of bounty and favor, and that she may be stirred by the breezes of the spirit and fragrance in the garden of contentment.  AB10816

This is a handmaiden from among Thy handmaidens who hath sought shelter beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy mercy, who hath turned toward the Kingdom of Thy oneness, who hath spoken the word of Thy unity, and who hath acknowledged the beauty of Thy singleness. O Lord! Perpetuate upon her Thy bounty, extend over her Thy protection, and cause her to dwell within the ark of Thy salvation.  AB11074

"O my God and my Beloved! I am a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens who hath turned unto Thee and believed in Thee after the servants turned away from Thee. O Lord! Inscribe me, then, among the people of the pavilion of Thy glory and the tents of Thy grandeur. Then make me one of those who circle round the throne of Thy majesty and turn with their hearts toward the court of Thy good-pleasure."   BH07290

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the Word wherein Thou hast treasured the pearls of Thy knowledge, and by the Sea that hath surged in Thy name in Thy days, to ordain for Thy handmaidens that which shall preserve them from drawing nigh unto any except Thee. O Lord! I implore Thee by Thy Self to shield them from every sorrow and grief and from whatsoever may hold them back from Thy most exalted horizon.   BH09728

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy signs which have set the world ablaze, and by Thy Cause whereby Thou hast subdued the nations, that Thou make me to be among those women whom the veils of glory have not withheld, nor the veils of them that are gone astray, and who have shone forth from the horizons of the heaven of detachment with the lights of Thy Most Great Name.  BH04603

O Lord! This is a fruit grown from the tree of Thy mercy. Protect her from severe winds and guard her from mighty tempests. O Lord! Illumine her face in Thy Kingdom and expand her breast through the light of Thy knowledge. Make her tongue speak Thy remembrance and gladden her spirit through Thy fragrances. Brighten her eyes through beholding Thy beauty and let her hear the melodies of the birds of Thy sanctity.  AB04341

In utmost rapture and attraction we are engaged in mentioning the friends and praying for the handmaidens of the Merciful, that the aid and bounty of the Most Great Oneness may place upon their heads a crown of the greatest gift, raise them up from among the women of the world, cause them to speak with most eloquent utterance and conclusive proof, and make them the cause of guidance for the women of the worlds.   AB05342

O my God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy path and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and sent down upon me the rain of Thy mercy. I beseech Thee by Thy light whereby earth and heaven were illumined, and by Thy fire whose call was raised from the Tree of Faithfulness, to enable me in all conditions to remember Thee and praise Thee and to hold fast to the cord of Thy bounty.  BH03962

O Lord! She hath turned toward Thee, and hath acknowledged Thy unity and confessed Thy singleness, and hath called upon Thee in her privacy and openly, and her call hath ascended to the heaven of Thy oneness and the dawning-place of Thy dominion and command. O Lord! Make her not deprived of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen handmaidens, and keep her not far from the sanctuary of Thy nearness and good-pleasure.  BH03357

O my Lord! Thou seest one of Thy leaves who hath sought the tree of Thy utterance and hath left her homeland out of longing to attain Thy presence. The hands of Thy might and the hosts of Thy invisible realm did aid her until she arrived at Thy Most Great Prison and attained Thy presence and heard Thy verses and beheld Thy horizon. O my Lord! Assist her through Thy sovereignty and aid her through Thy bounty and bestowal.   BH04749

This is one of Thy handmaidens who hath turned toward the Kaaba of divine knowledge in Thy days and hath sought what lieth with Thee of the wonders of Thy favors. O Lord! Protect her within the tabernacle of Thy Cause from that which Thy good-pleasure abhorreth, then give her to drink of the Kawthar of everlasting life through the hands of Thy bounties, and ordain for her that which shall profit her in every world of Thy worlds.   BH04230

I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Holy Ones, Who have rendered aid unto Thy Cause by Their substance and by Their own persons, and I entreat Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy grandeur, to ordain for Thy handmaiden that she observe what Thou hast sent down in Thy book. Illumine her heart with the light of Thy knowledge, O my God, and write down for her such as Thou hast ordained for the maidens of Thy highest paradise.  BH08635

This is a leaf from among Thy leaves who hath clung to the Tree of Thy grace and hath departed from her homeland, turning toward the most exalted homeland - the station from whose horizon shone forth the lights of the countenance of her Most Glorious Lord. She hath entered the gate of Thy mercy and heard Thy call and witnessed that for which most of Thy creatures died in their yearning. I beseech Thee to make her articulate in Thy remembrance and praise  BH10290

O Lord! This is a leaf stirred by the winds of Thy Will and moved by the breezes of Thy bounty. O Lord! Make her verdant and fresh through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy grace, and cause her to speak Thy praise among Thy handmaidens. Adorn her head with the crown of attraction in the gatherings of intimacy through Thy remembrance and praise, and illuminate her face with the lights of detachment among the leaves who are gladdened by Thy grace and favor.   AB02982

O Lord! This is Thy handmaiden who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, who hath been assured of Thy proof and Thy Covenant, who hath accepted Thy words, who hath circled round the Spot round which circle the Concourse on High, and who hath turned toward the Kingdom of Abha. O Lord! Enable her to act according to Thy good-pleasure, gaze upon her with the glance of mercy, cause her to speak Thy praise, and preserve her within the shelter of Thy protection and care.   AB05498

This is one of Thy handmaidens who hath held fast to the cord of Thy loving-kindness and responded when Thy call was raised between Thy heaven and Thy earth, and turned toward Thy horizon when the divines of Thy lands and the theologians of Thy countries turned away from it. I beseech Thee, by the rain-showers of the heaven of Thy mercy and by the outpourings of Thy days, to aid her to remain steadfast in Thy love and to ordain for her that which shall bring comfort to her eyes and tranquility to her heart.  BH10293

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance, and by the leaves which are stirred by the winds of Thy will and purpose, and by the burning hearts of Thy lovers, and by the detachment of Thy sincere ones and they that love Thee in Thy days, to aid this handmaid of Thine in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with. Then manifest through her, by Thy bounty and generosity, that which shall endure as long as Thy Cause endureth amongst Thy creatures and the manifestations of the Sun of Thy Will in Thy lands.   BH05201

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward the horizon of Thy grace and clinging to the cord of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence, by the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge and by the blood that hath been shed in Thy path, to assist this handmaiden of Thine in that which will draw her nigh unto Thee. O Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. I beseech Thee by the lamp of Thy Cause and the ark of Thy power to aid me in that which will exalt me through Thy name. Then ordain for me, O my God, the good of this world and the world to come.   BH04878

Say: "My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the breezes of Thy Revelation and the potency of Thy Will and the all-encompassing nature of Thy Desire, to make me one of the leaves of Thy Tree which neither the winds of Thy earth nor the tempests of the idolaters among the people of Thy realm can cause to fall. Then ordain for me, O my God, that which Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaids who circle round Thy Will and act according to what Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book. There is no God but Thee, the Almighty, the Powerful, and worthy of answering prayer."  BH04669

My God, my God! I have turned to Thee and have placed my trust in Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones who soared in the atmosphere of Thy nearness and gave up their spirits in Thy path, to ordain for this Thy maidservant that which shall profit her in all the worlds of Thy worlds. Thou knowest what is in her heart and what profiteth her and what she possesseth. She knoweth not what is with Thee and what profiteth her. Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful. O my Lord! Aid her and ordain for her the good of the hereafter and of this world. Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04349

O My handmaiden! Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God, O Thou by Whose name the gate of heaven was opened, and by the motion of Whose finger the veils of them that dwell on earth were rent asunder! I beseech Thee by the Most Exalted Horizon, the Station from which the Sun of Thy beauty hath shone forth, to strengthen me under all conditions to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee. O Lord! Thou seest Thy handmaiden turning unto Thee, gazing toward Thee, and seeking the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace. I beseech Thee not to disappoint her in that which she desireth from the wonders of Thy bounty and favor.   BH10431

My God, my God! We are handmaidens whom the sweet savors of Thy holiness have attracted from the Blessed Spot. Illumine our insight with the lights of Thy guidance shining from the horizon of truth, quicken us through the outpourings of Thy Holy Spirit descending from the heaven of divine mercy, and awaken us by the breezes of Thy love at the dawning of the sun of divine unity. O Lord! Enable us to attain the essence of sanctification from every attribute save the virtues Thou hast specially ordained for the holy realities of the most exalted Kingdom. Refresh our hearts with the continuous effusions from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB07778

O Pure One! O Kind Lord! Thanks be unto Thee that Thou hast made these maidservants precious and placed the crown of bounty upon these lowly ones' heads. Thou didst open the door of forgiveness, show Thy face, and capture our hearts. O Loving Lord! We cannot praise Thee enough and fall short in our worship. We are helpless and insignificant, lacking and without discernment. Yet we seek Thy face, hasten toward Thee, and speak Thy praise. We are captives in the chains of Thy love and aided by the Prince of the realm of bounty. Thanks be unto Thee that Thou hast poured honey and sugar into our mouths and made these maidservants successful.   AB04253

O leaf of divine tree, Afnan, Mr. Mirza Aqa, upon him be the glory and favors of God! He is the Hearer, the Answerer! My God, my God! This is a fragrance from the fragrances of the garden of inner meanings that has turned to Thee on a day wherein the divines of Thy age and the clergy of Thy lands have turned away. I beseech Thee by Thy Beauty that hath appeared amongst Thy creatures, and by the power of Thy Pen and the penetrating influence of Thy Cause, to ordain for her through the pen of Thy bounty that which will draw her nigh unto Thee. Then I beseech Thee, O God of all beings and Goal of all created things, by the fragrances of Thy days through which the mountains were moved and the Cry was raised and the earth shone with Thy light, to ordain for her from Thy Most Exalted Pen the reward of attaining Thy presence and standing before Thy countenance. O Lord! Thou art the Generous One. Thy grace hath preceded and Thy mercy hath preceded. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Generous.   BH08651
