
O my God, O my God! This is Thy servant whom Thou hast caused to be related to Thy heavenly Tree and to be born beneath the shade of Thy oneness. Thou didst suckle him at the breast of Thy loving-kindness, and reared him within the embrace of Thy care. Thou didst guide him unto the right path until, through Thy grace and bounty, he attained unto maturity within the shelter of Thy protection. Thou didst lead him to walk in the straight and undeviating Path, cleaving steadfastly unto Thy sure Handle and mighty Cord, in order that he might seek Thy good-pleasure, be content with Thy decree, turn unto Thy heaven, speak forth Thy praise, and manifest the qualities of the favoured and the sincere amongst Thy servants. Thou hast now favoured him with one of Thy handmaidens and hast wed him to her through Thine endless bounties. Lord, she was an orphan who was nurtured beneath the shade of Thy mercy and reared within the bosom of Thy favours and bestowals. She attained unto maturity within the protective embrace of Thy Covenant and was safeguarded under the watchful eye of Thy loving-kindness and mercy. O Lord! Unite these two souls through Thy grace, and bind their hearts together through Thy bounty, that they may become even as a single body, a single soul, and a single being, untarnished by antipathy or estrangement, and waxing greater in fidelity and purity with each passing day. Graciously assist them in their servitude to Thy great and sacred Threshold, and vouchsafe unto them Thy blessings and favours. Protect them from every distress and tribulation, from every sickness and sorrow. Thou art, in truth, the All-Bountiful, the Almighty, the Bestower. Verily, Thou art the Most Gracious, the All-Merciful, Whose help is implored by all. AB12257


O my Lord and my Hope! This Thy servant hath, in obedience to Thy bidding and in fulfilment of Thy laws, wed one of Thy handmaidens in order that they may establish upon Thine earth a family that shall remember Thee amongst Thy creatures, call out in Thy name amidst Thy people, and become distinguished throughout the world for its relationship to Thee and its reliance upon Thee. O Lord! Grant that this marriage may be prosperous, blessed, pleasing, and happy, and make it a cause of harmony and fellowship for evermore. Thou, verily, aidest whomsoever Thou willest. Thou art, in truth, the Most Powerful, the Almighty, the Omnipotent.  AB12852

Grant, O my Lord, that this marriage may be auspicious, joyous, blessed, and praiseworthy. Strengthen Thou the union and increase the harmony between these two souls, that they may live together in the utmost tranquillity and delight, and may establish a devoted family that believeth in Thee and in Thy signs. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Omnipotent, the Most Powerful.  AB12851

Lord! Make these two souls even as one body, one soul, and one heart, intermingling even as water and wine, and as honey and pure milk. Ordain Thou for their offspring every blessing. Advance their station and cause them to be as two luminous signs shining forth from the horizon of love and affection. Verily, Thou art the Unifier, the Supreme Ordainer, the Source of all love, the Most Generous, the Compassionate.  AB12850

O Lord! Grant that this marriage may be blessed and happy. Send down Thy mercy upon them both in order that from them may issue forth noble children who shall turn unto Thy Kingdom of beauty, glorify Thee in their hearts and with their tongues in the world of being, and unravel the mysteries Thou hast deposited in the hearts and souls. Thou, in truth, art the One Who uniteth, bindeth, and joineth together the human race. Thou, verily, art the Bestower, the Compassionate, the Beneficent.  AB12841

I turned my face to the Holy Threshold of God and implored that this marital bond be interwoven with prosperity.  AB12627

O maidservant of God! Praise be unto God that thy loving husband hath entered beneath the shade of the Blessed Tree, and hath received the light of divine guidance from the heavenly sun and luminous moon. He is an agreeable companion and a true friend. Therefore, thou shouldst act in such a manner that he may enjoy the utmost happiness, felicity, and delight and may be wholeheartedly pleased and gladdened. I shall pray for you and hope that, through the bounties and blessings of the Almighty, ye may live in a state of utmost harmony and love. Upon thee be the glory of the Most Glorious. AB12842

O ye two birds of the celestial gardens! Render thanks unto God that ye were graciously enabled to enter into matrimony with one another and wish to establish a blessed family. I too supplicate the realm of the All-Glorious that those two intimate doves may be made to warble sweet melodies in the heaven of His bounty, so that upon the twigs of the Tree of Life they may sing, in the most wondrous tones, hymns of praise and glory to the Lord of Hosts, in order that all who hearken thereunto may be moved and filled with joy and ecstasy, may be stirred by the breezes of God’s loving-kindness, may seek eternal life, and may long for spiritual rebirth.  AB12843

O God, my God! Join in accord these two souls and set firm their feet in eternal love and everlasting union, in order that each of them may be unto the other a bestowal of Thy grace, a token of Thy loving-kindness, and an outpouring from Thy Kingdom of bounty. Bestow upon them pure and goodly offspring who shall stand firm in servitude unto Thee, remain constant in Thy worship, yearn for Thy Kingdom, and be filled with inspiration by Thy Great Announcement. Verily Thou art the Most Bountiful, and verily Thou art the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB12849

We beseech the Living, Self-Subsisting Lord that from the conjunction of these two stars in the horizon of the love of God blessed results may appear, and from the companionship of these two branches of the gardens of the knowledge of God wondrous flowers may bloom in this springtime season and goodly fruits become manifest. O Lord! Cause these two trees to bring forth leaves, flowers and fruits through Thy grace, bounty and benevolence. Verily Thou art the Generous One.  AB11880

O God! O my God! Verily, these are Thy servant and Thy handmaiden who have gathered beneath the shadow of Thy mercy and united through Thy grace and bounty. O Lord! Assist them in Thy Kingdom and destine for them every good through Thy grace and bounty. O Lord! Support them and enable them to serve Thee and make them mindful of Thee in Thy Kingdom. O Lord! Protect them through Thy boundless favors in this world and the world to come. O Lord! They supplicate unto the Kingdom of Thy mercy and beseech the Realm of Thy oneness in obedience to Thy command. Make their union one of harmony and unity until the Day of Meanings. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent, the All-Powerful.  AB07158


O God! Endear this distinguished and loving maid servant of God in Thy Kingdom, bless the members of her household and encircle her respectful husband with the Glances of Thy Mercifulness!  AB12780

O my God, my God! This is Thy maidservant who supplicates to the kingdom of Thy mercy...Aid them both to be detached from all else save Thee, to be occupied with Thy remembrance and praise, and to be set ablaze with the fire of Thy love.  AB10812

I beg of God to surround this union with a heavenly blessing, and to ordain for thy dear husband and thy dear brother a heavenly, spiritual and merciful gift which may lead to eternal, everlasting and spiritual life, and to infinite and heavenly distinction  AB09001

Lord, Lord! Bless this union through Thy favors at all times and make them as one body and one soul, united without separation and in harmony without dissolution. Grant them pure offspring who will remember Thee morning and night and worship Thee at dawn and dusk.   AB01091

O God! O Composer of hearts and Endearing of souls and Gatherer of all pairs, that they may become intimate and harmonize and become one blessed soul in this first life and seek a contented life in the next life - bless these two souls through Your grace and mercy.   AB02021

My God, my God! I beseech Thee to make this marriage encompassed by grace and bounty, and a cause of enduring harmony continuing unto the end of eternity. Lord! Create harmony between them, unite their hearts, and make this harmony an unbreakable bond unto the end of time.   AB03306

O my God! O my God! I ask thee to protect these two birds in the orchard of Thy mercy, confirmed in joy and happiness in the garden of Thy bounties, warbling with the best melodies in the wood (garden) of Thy knowledge. Verily Thou art the Precious, the Mighty, the Protecting!  AB09629

O my God! O my God! I ask Thee to protect these two birds in the orchard of Thy mercy, confirmed in joy and happiness in the garden of Thy bounties, warbling with the best melodies in the wood (garden) of Thy knowledge. Verily Thou art the Precious, the Mighty, the Protecting!  AB09629

O peerless Lord! In Thine almighty wisdom Thou hast enjoined marriage upon the peoples, that the generations of men may succeed one another in this contingent world, and that ever, so long as the world shall last, they may busy themselves at the Threshold of Thy oneness with servitude and worship, with salutation, adoration and praise.  AB05652

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the Luminary of Thy proof which hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy prison, to aid Thy loved ones to achieve unity and harmony, that through them the horizons of Thy dominion may be illumined. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent One Whom the conditions of Thy creation cannot frustrate, nor can the clamor of Thy servants dismay.  BH11707

O God! Make Thou this marriage to be the cause of heavenly blessing and the means of enkindlement in the kingdom of eternity, through the fire of Thy love. Vouchsafe Thy grace that these souls may both attain near access to Thy sacred Threshold and remain steadfast in Thy love, that day by day they may grow in the degrees of the spirit and become even as twin signs of faith and certitude amongst mankind.  AB10556

O Lord! Make this marriage blessed, auspicious and prosperous. Unite these two and gladden the eyes of all through the fruits that shall be brought forth from this noble union. Preserve them within the cave of Thy protection and safeguarding, guard them with the eye of Thy loving-kindness, and make them signs of Thy remembrance amongst Thy creation and lamps of Thy knowledge within the glass of Thy bounty.  AB00136

O Lord! Make this bond of unity that You have tied enduring, and grant this servant and handmaiden a spiritual and physical connection. Make this union abundantly blessed and this marriage a cause of joy. Increase the spirituality of both and grant them illumination, so that both may succeed in utmost truthfulness and worship of reality in servitude at Your holy Threshold. May they seek none but You, desire none but You, and speak of none but You.  AB02051

O Lord! Make firm their feet in Thy most great love, strengthen the ties of affection between them through the Sure Handle in Thine impregnable refuge, and send down upon them blessings from Thy side. Raise up through them descendants who will serve at Thy sacred and resplendent Threshold, who will make mention of Thee in the most exalted assemblage, who will worship Thee in the morn and the daytime, and who will supplicate Thee at dawn and eventide.  AB12249

O my God! O my God! We have become united through love for Thy beauty and hope in Thy good-pleasure and desire to serve Thee. O Lord! Make us as one body and one spirit, confirmed by Thy divine assistance, that we may arise with our whole being to serve Thee, detached from all else save Thee, firm in Thy Covenant and Testament, freed from everything except Thy love. O Lord! Assist us in this, for Thou art verily the Confirmer, the Ordainer, the Mighty, the Powerful.   AB03317

O Lord of the worlds and Trainer of all who are in the heavens and on the earth! I beseech Thee by Thy Names, the Joyous and the Sorrowful, the Manifest and the Hidden, to bless these two souls, to ordain between them love and affection, and to protect them from the mischief of such as have disbelieved in Thy days and caviled at Thy signs. I beseech Thee, moreover, O my God, to write down for them both, by Thy Most Exalted Pen, the good of this world and of the world to come.  BH02217

O my Lord, O my Lord! These two bright orbs are wedded in Thy love, conjoined in servitude to Thy Holy Threshold, united in ministering to Thy Cause. Make Thou this marriage to be as threading lights of Thine abounding grace, O my Lord, the All-Merciful, and luminous rays of Thy bestowals, O Thou the Beneficent, the Ever-Giving, that there may branch out from this great tree boughs that will grow green and flourishing through the gifts that rain down from Thy clouds of grace.  AB02596

O thou who art turned toward the Divine Kingdom and submissive to Divine Glory! I beseech the Lord of the Kingdom, the Possessor of Glory and Might, to make thee and thy dear spouse two signs of harmony and unity, to bless your marriage for all eternity, to protect you both in the shelter of His protection, to watch over you with the eye of His providence, to cause your hearts to rejoice through His hidden favors, to gladden your eyes through divine bestowals, to continue upon you both magnificent bounties and heavenly blessings.  AB10180

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the breezes of the dawn of Thy Manifestation whereby Thou didst quicken all created things, and by the showers of Thy bounty and the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and wisdom, that Thou assist him who hath turned toward Thee, through whom Thou hast manifested Thy grace and favor, and to whom Thou hast given one of Thy handmaidens who hath stood in Thy service for numbered years, in demonstration of Thy generosity and manifestation of Thy grace. O my Lord! Unite them through Thy Name whereby Thou hast subdued hearts and drawn souls unto Thee.  BH11748
