
O Lord! He is sick and seeks healing, hungry and craves Thy bounties and favors, thirsty and seeks refreshment, and love-smitten yearning for the wine of meeting Thee. Ordain for him every good in the Most Glorious Kingdom, mention him in the Supreme Concourse, and grant him a true and lofty tongue. AB02700

We are the afflicted ones--bestow upon us a healing remedy. We are the destitute ones--grant us prosperity and success. We are intoxicated with the cup of "Am I not your Lord?"--give us fervor and make us drink deep. We are at the feast of Thy love--bestow upon us rapturous joy.  AB09941

O God, my God! I beg of Thee by the ocean of Thy healing...to purge me with the waters of Thy bounty from every affliction and disorder, and from all weakness and feebleness.  BH08013

She is sick, O my God, and hath entered beneath the shadow of the Tree of Thy healing; afflicted, and hath fled to the City of Thy protection; diseased, and hath sought the Fountain-Head of Thy favors; sorely vexed, and hath hasted to attain the Well-Spring of Thy tranquillity; burdened with sin, and hath set her face toward the court of Thy forgiveness. Attire her, by Thy sovereignty and Thy loving-kindness, O my God and my Beloved, with the raiment of Thy balm and Thy healing, and make her quaff of the cup of Thy mercy and Thy favors. Protect her, moreover, from every affliction and ailment, from all pain and sickness, and from whatsoever may be abhorrent unto Thee.  BH04475

Glory be to Thee, O Lord my God! I beg of Thee by Thy Name through which He Who is Thy Beauty hath been stablished upon the throne of Thy Cause, and by Thy Name through which Thou changest all things, and gatherest together all things, and callest to account all things, and rewardest all things, and preservest all things, and sustainest all things -- I beg of Thee to guard this handmaiden who hath fled for refuge to Thee, and hath sought the shelter of Him in Whom Thou Thyself art manifest, and hath put her whole trust and confidence in Thee.  BH04475


I am afflicted - give me healing. I am wounded - grant me balm.   AB02887

From Thee shelter, from us illness. From Thee healing...bestow healing  AB10568

O God, my God! Cure Thou my afflictions and prescribe a healing salve to my sores.  AB06421

Have mercy, O Lord, on the feeble, make whole the sick, and quench the burning thirst.  AB02866

and to give thee to drink, from the hands of His Most Glorious Name, the Kawthar of healing   BH03092

Ask God to heal the world and cure it of its diseases. Verily He is the Healer, the Almighty.   BH04923

Illumine the hearts, make the eyes seeing, make the ears hearing. Bring the dead to life, heal the sick  AB07056

provide for me a shelter, immerse me in the Fountain of Thy Patience and heal me of all sickness and disease  AB06676

O Lord! Give sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf. Heal the sick with heavenly medicine that they may find health and well-being.  AB04172

O my Most Merciful Lord, your sick handmaiden yearn your great grace and resplendent healing. Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful.   AB01096

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall be a healing for ailments and an antidote for bodily weakness.   BH04450

O Lord! Have mercy upon her through Thy mercy, show her Thy tender compassion through Thy grace, heal her illness and ease her hardship through Thy bounty  AB10331


O my God! Aid this broken one who is humbled at Thy sublime threshold to revive spirits, heal bodies, spread Thy traces among all beings, and exalt the word of piety through the power of guidance.  AB02838

O my Lord! Give me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy favor and the Tasnim of Thy grace and bounty, that it may purify me from all that Thy good-pleasure abhorreth and deliver me from this malady that hath seized me  BH01727

If I am sick, I gain eternal health...O Thou Lord of the Kingdom! Cause Thou the rejoicing of my heart; empower my weak spirit and strengthen my exhausted nerves. Illumine Thou my eyes: suffer my ears to become hearing  AB09728

"My God, my God! Thy love is my healing, Thy remembrance my remedy... Do not prevent me from washing in the spring of Thy Job and being healed of my ailments, diseases, weakness of constitution, and decay of my being."   AB03537

As for your question about why these souls passed away despite the recitation of prayers and healing prayers, know that these prayers and supplications are for healing from suspended fate, not from irrevocable and binding destiny.  AB01808

Heal one of them with a swift healing, and increase them both in health and well-being through Thy grace and gift. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bestower, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Chosen One.   AB00735

We beseech God to rain down upon thee from the heaven of grace the rains of healing, to cleanse thee from every ailment, to cure thee of every malady, and to give thee to drink from His ocean of healing and heaven of bounty and sun of grace.  BH08551

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the sun of Thy manifestation, and the heaven of Thy bounty, to ordain for Thy loved ones that which will gladden them in Thy days. Then protect them, O my God, from every disease and affliction  BH09083

I beseech Thee by the Light whereby the horizon of the heaven of Thy bounty was illumined, to send down upon this handmaiden of Thine mercy and healing through Thy generosity and grace...O Lord! Purify her from ailments and grant her well-being.  BH10292

O Lord! Ordain healing for Thy servant who supplicates to Thy most exalted Kingdom, and make him a sign of Thy mercy among all people, and decree for him recovery from every ailment and disease...deliver him from the depths of illness and disease  AB06553

O Thou Whose remembrance is healing to the hearts of the righteous, Whose praise is a sovereign remedy for the free, Whose glorification is medicine curing the ailments of the pure ones, and Whose communion is a balm for the wounds of the God-fearing!  AB09717

We beseech God to heal thee and cure thee of thy ailment and illness. Verily, He is the Answerer of the prayers of the suppliants. When the appointed time cometh, He will cause the rains of mercy and healing to descend upon thee from the clouds of His grace.  BH11738

Lord, he is sick hoping for Thy mighty healing, thirsty longing for the flowing waters, and poor seeking enrichment from Thy hidden treasure. My God, my God! Make every difficulty easy for him, restore everything ruined, and bring order to everything scattered.  AB01708

Thy Name is my healing, O my God, Thy remembrance is my remedy, Thy nearness is my hope, Thy love is my companion, Thy mercy is my physician and helper in both this world and the world to come. Thou, verily, art the All-Bountiful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH01313

I supplicate God to alleviate thy trials and look upon thee with the eye of His mercy under all aspects. Turn thou to the Kingdom of thy great Lord with a truthful heart and with all devotion, sincerity and great spirituality and ask to be healed from pain and passions  AB10208

O Thou whose remembrance is the healing of the hearts of the righteous, whose praise is the remedy and sovereign cure of the free, whose eulogy is the healing medicine for the ailments of the chosen ones, and whose prayer is the healing balm for the wounds of the pious!  AB09717

O Lord! The skill of physicians has failed to treat me and the expertise of healers and doctors is bewildered by my ailments. You are the healing of my illness and the cooling of my burning and the quenching of my thirst. Have mercy upon me through Your grace and generosity.  AB05031

I implore Thee to keep safe him who hath held fast and returned unto Thee, and clung to Thy mercy, and seized the hem of Thy loving providence. Send down, then, upon him Thy healing, and make him whole, and endue him with a constancy vouchsafed by Thee, and a tranquillity bestowed by Thy highness.  BH07721

O Lord, heal the eyes of Thy servant and illumine his insight to behold the signs of Thy holiness, and cause him to hear the melodies of the birds of praise in the garden of divine unity through Thy grace and bounty, and make him pure and sincere for Thy gracious countenance. Verily, Thou art the Merciful.  AB09036

I beseech Thee, by our religion and by my homeland and its cities, to heal with Thy healing eye the eye of the bearer from inflammation, through the rights of Muhammad and the family of Muhammad and his followers, the followers of Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, through the right of their remembrance.   BB00615

O Lord! Heal the eyes of Thy servant and illumine his vision to behold the signs of Thy holiness, and cause him to hear the melodies of the birds of praise in the garden of divine unity, through Thy grace and bounty. Make him pure and sincere before Thy gracious countenance, for verily Thou art the Merciful.  AB09036

Turn unto God with a heart beating with His love, sincerely devoted to His commemoration, gazing unto His Kingdom, seeking help from His Holy Spirit in a state of attraction, exultation, love, longing, joy and fragrances. In such a state God will confirm thee with a spirit on His part, inhaling pains and ailments.  AB10177

I entreat Thee by Thy name whereby Thou hast subjected all created things, both visible and invisible, and through which the breath that is life indeed was wafted over the entire creation, to strengthen me by Thy power which hath encompassed the heavens and the earth, and to guard me from all sickness and tribulation.  BH07780

O beloved physician! If thou art a skilled and accomplished healer, treat my affliction. I am ailing - prescribe for me an easy remedy. Grant peace and tranquility to my inner burning, and bestow relief upon the anguish of my heart. Apply a salve to my wounded liver, and grant soothing moisture to my scorched innards.  AB08150

O Thou Healer! I beseech Thee... that Thou mayest ordain for Thy loved ones and for this handmaiden that which will protect them from aught else but Thee and from every affliction and sickness. O my Lord! Sickness hath completely overtaken her, therefore send down upon her, through Thy bounty, that which will purify her from it.   BH10705

Therefore, O my God, do Thou give her to drink from the Kawthar of Thy healing with all speed, for her cries have risen to heaven. O Thou Who removest all ills! Thou knowest that her patience is less than can be counted, and verily Thou doest what Thou willest. Deal with her as befitteth Thee, for Thou art the Generous, the Healer.   BH09409

O Lord! Give this thirsty one to drink from the fountain of life, and heal this sick one with heavenly medicine. Grant true healing to this patient and bestow strength and power from the greatest antidote to this bedridden one. Thou art the Healer, Thou art the Sufficient, Thou art the Fulfiller, and upon Thee be greetings and praise.  AB10966

I am but a poor creature, O my Lord; I have clung to the hem of Thy riches. I am sore sick; I have held fast the cord of Thy healing. Deliver me from the ills that have encircled me, and wash me thoroughly with the waters of Thy graciousness and mercy, and attire me with the raiment of wholesomeness, through Thy forgiveness and bounty.  BH07105

O my God! I beseech Thee by the Light wherewith Thou didst illumine the Hijaz, and by Thy Command whereby the vale of Mecca did flow, and by His family and companions whom Thou didst make the repositories of Thy knowledge, the treasuries of Thy wealth and the pearls of Thy unity, to aid Thy servants in that which Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book.  BH06414

I implore Thee, therefore...to send down this night from the clouds of Thy mercy the rains of Thy healing upon this suckling, whom Thou hast related unto Thine all-glorious Self in the kingdom of Thy creation. Clothe him, then, O my God, by Thy grace, with the robe of well-being and health, and guard him, O my Beloved, from every affliction and disorder  BH04990

The prayers that have been revealed for healing encompass both physical and spiritual healing. Therefore, recite them for both spiritual and physical healing. If healing is suitable and beneficial for the patient, it will assuredly be granted. However, for some patients, healing may cause other harms - hence divine wisdom may not require the prayer's acceptance.   AB00152

O Heaven of Healing! I beseech Thee by the sun of Thy grace, and the moon of Thy loving-kindness, and the star of Thy generosity, to inscribe healing from Thy Most Exalted Pen for this star in the heaven of Thy Manifestation...Send down upon him, O my God, a mercy from Thy presence and a light from Thy nearness. Verily, Thou art the Healer, the Sufficient, the Compassionate, the Forgiving.  BH10703

O thou who art supplicating unto the Kingdom of God! Rest assured in the mercy of thy Lord; be rejoiced for my remembering thee; gladden thyself by the appearance of the Kingdom of God, be attracted by the fragrance of God and call out: "Ya Baha El-ABHA!"--from the depths of thy heart with all meekness and supplication, attracted by the fire of the love of God. (Then anoint or rub all the parts of the body.)  AB09625

Thou seest one of Thy maidservants who desireth from this Thy servant that which Thou wouldst make a healing for her through Thy grace, and health from Thy presence, and well-being from Thy side...Then I beseech Thee by Thy Beloved One, through Whose advent the celestial spheres were honored, to send down upon her from the heaven of Thy healing that which will gladden the hearts of Thy servants and Thy handmaidens.  BH06194

O my God, my God! These are physicians who have combined the medicine of bodies with the medicine of spirits and consciousness. Enable them to remove every illness and eliminate every symptom, to treat chronic ailments and ward off every severe disease that afflicts humankind. O my Merciful Lord! Verily Thou art the Physician for hearts, spirits and bodies, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Generous, the Gracious.  AB01651

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy healing, and by the splendors of the Day-Star of Thy grace, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue Thy servants, and by the penetrating power of Thy most exalted Word and Thy most august Pen, and by Thy mercy that hath preceded the creation of all who are in heaven and on earth, to purify me with the waters of Thy bounty from every affliction and disorder, and from all weakness and feebleness.  BH00068

Glorified art Thou, O Lord, Thou Who art my God and my Beloved! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, through which Thy mercy hath preceded all things and the Sun of the beauty of Thy hidden title shone forth above the horizon of creation, and through which Thy bounty was perfected unto all who dwell in heaven and on earth, to send down upon this sick one, from the clouds of Thy mercy, that which shall cleanse him of every malady, illness, and affliction. Immerse him, then, in the ocean of Thy healing  BH11672

O God, my God! I have turned to Thee, supplicating bounties from the ocean of Thy healing. O God, enable me to serve Thy servants and assist in their healing. Confirm that my medicine may be a remedy for every sickness and ailment, infirmity and cold, and every other affliction. If Thou wert to refuse confirmation, then in no wise would my medication be a remedy for illness. O God, my God! Aid and assist me through Thy healing grace. Thou art the Healer, the Self-Sufficient, the Remover of every adversity and illness.  AB08489

He is the Healer, the Sufficer, the Helper, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  I call on Thee O Exalted One, O Faithful One, O Glorious One! Thou the Sufficing, Thou the Healing, Thou the Abiding, O Thou Abiding One!  BH00870


O my Lord! Thou seest me gazing toward the heaven of Thy grace and beseeching the outpourings of Thy mercy and awaiting the streams of Thy loving-kindness and favors. I beseech Thee by Thy power that hath encompassed all created things to preserve me through the hosts of the unseen and the seen and to ordain for me that which will purify me from every disease and illness and disturbance. O my Lord! Thou seest him who is related to Thy Self standing ready to serve Thee - send down upon him from the heaven of Thy mercy the rains of Thy healing.  BH04100

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, speaking Thy praise, and standing to serve Thy Cause amidst the enemies of Thy Self. I beseech Thee by the oceans of Thy grace, the ships of Thy power, and the lights of Thy countenance, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds. Then I beseech Thee by Thy Name the Healer, by Thy Name the Sufficient, and by Thy Name the Helper, to purify me from every disease and malady and from all that hindereth me from drawing nigh unto Thee and arising to serve in Thy days.  BH04209

I ask Thee by Thine Ancient Beauty, and I supplicate Thee by the manifestation of Thy Greatest Majesty, and Thy Name, around which the heavens of the Manifestations revolve; by which the waters of the oceans overflow, the full moons appear, the lights diffuse, and verily, the visible and the invisible, the mysterious and the celebrated; by which all sorrow will be turned into joy and all disease will be turned into health, and by which every sick, afflicted, unfortunate and constrained one may be healed, to suffice to heal this weary, sick-worn one of the seen and the unseen disease.  BH07997

As to what thou hast mentioned concerning thy affliction, We beseech God to deliver thee from it and to purify thee from every calamity, misfortune, illness, ailment, plague and infirmity. Verily, He is nigh and responsive to those who call upon Him. Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by this Name through which Thou hast shattered the idols of fancy and desire, and through which Thou hast become independent of all who dwell in the kingdom of glory and eternity, to send down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will purify me from this malady that hath troubled my inner and outer being.   BH00290

O Ever-Abiding One! Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy generosity through which Thou didst open the gates of bounty and bestowal, and through which the Temple of Thy Holiness was established upon the throne of eternity; and by Thy mercy through which Thou didst call all created things to the banquet of Thy favor and beneficence... that Thou protect the bearer of this blessed leaf, then him who readeth it, then him who hearkeneth unto it, then him who passeth by the house wherein it resideth; and heal through it every sick and ailing one and every poor one from all tribulation, malady, hardship and grief  BH00870

O God! O Thou Who dost strengthen the sincere ones with hosts from the Most Glorious Kingdom and Who dost confirm those firm in Thy Covenant with legions of angels from the Supreme Concourse! This servant, submissive and humble before Thy exalted Threshold, calls upon Thee, supplicating and imploring before Thy Most Great Mercy, taking refuge in the cave of Thy protection and most mighty safekeeping, that Thou wouldst protect him from the evil of enemies and make his word supreme and the word of his foes and adversaries abased, and heal him from his ailments which have weakened his strength and the maladies that have afflicted him with great force.  AB05013
