
O my God! Grant me perfect detachment unto Thee  BB00362

O Kind Lord! Free this heart from every attachment  AB08694

Let me forget all but Thee, fall silent to all mention save Thine  AB04737

Then grant him, O my God, that which will detach him from all else but Thee  BH10845

I am weary of self - make me attached to You and detached from all the world.   AB02887

I entreat Thee to enable me to rid myself of all attachment to any one but Thee   BH09498

O Lord! Deliver us from attachment to created things, from past sins and future afflictions   AB07006

I beseech Thee...that Thou make me wholly detached unto Thee, clinging to the cord of Thy favors  BH07655

I beseech Thee...to make me detached from all else save Thee and holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty  BH10284

I beseech Thee to make me detached from all else save Thee and speaking Thy praise amongst Thy servants   BH08405

Then deliver them from the idle fancies of self and passion and from the fire of transgression and wickedness.   BH06913

to be detached from this worldly existence, and to be freed from every remembrance and thought that relates to the lowest depths  AB02040

Send down, then, upon me, out of the clouds of Thy generosity, what will purge out from me the remembrance of any one except Thee   BH07683

to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty that which will cause me to hold fast unto Thee and to be independent of all else besides Thee   BH07760

To graciously enable Thy servants to dispense with all but Thee, to draw nigh unto Thee, and to become detached from aught else save Thee.   BH00759

that they may cut down, by Thy power, all the idols of their corrupt inclinations, and enter beneath the shadow of Thine all-encompassing mercy  BH04186

O my Lord! Ordain for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will render me detached from all else save Thee and holding fast to Thy Most Strong Cord.   BH04126

I entreat Thee... to blot out from my heart all idle fancies and vain imaginings, that with all my affections I may turn unto Thee, O Thou Lord of all mankind!  BH09864

Send down upon me from the clouds of Thy grace that which will make me detached from all else save Thee and draw me nigh unto the seat of Thy mercy and favors   BH03095

I beseech Thee...that Thou mayest make me to be of them who have detached themselves from all names and have clung to Thy Self, the Most Exalted, the Most Glorious.  BH10276

Then send down upon them from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy grace that which will make them independent of all else save Thee and detached from all except Thyself.   BH10280

O Lord! O Kind One! O Pure God! O Merciful, All-Merciful One! Grant us a bounty, a gift, a mercy, and a blessing that we may become free from all else and be captured in Thy snare.  AB08572

I beseech Thee by the breezes of Thy verses and the pearls hidden in the ocean of Thy bounty to make me detached from all else but Thee, speaking in Thy praise and standing firm in Thy service.   BH03788

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God, my Beloved and my Purpose! I beseech Thee...that Thou make me detached from the world and its promptings lest I turn unto it and turn away from the Beloved of the worlds."  BH03608

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Most Great Signs and by the lights of Thy countenance, O Thou Lord of all mankind, to make me detached from all else save Thee, to hold fast to Thy cord, and to cling to the hem of Thy grace.  BH07053

O Lord! Sever the cord of my attachment to all things, sanctify me from all things, detach me from all things, and make my face pure for Thy gracious countenance that I may be cut off from all else but Thee in this mighty station.  AB09037

Say: O my God! I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy revelation, the Dayspring of Thine inspiration, and the Source of Thy Command, to make me, in all conditions, one who soars in the atmosphere of Thy remembrance, detached from all else but Thee.  BH10183

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses, and the sun of Thy loving-kindness, and by Thy radiant and resplendent light, and Thy unique and wondrous Cause, to ordain for me that which will make me detached from all else but Thee and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy.   BH07928

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Beauty and by the splendors of the Sun of Thy grace and bounty to detach me from whatsoever is in the heavens and earth, and to render me wholly devoted to Thy resplendent and most glorious Countenance and sincerely dedicated to Thy most exalted Faith  BH01180

O my Lord! Assist this sinful one to be detached from them that are estranged from Thee, and occupy me rather with Thy love. Free me from the bonds and fetters of self and passion and make me a captive of the love of Thine All-Glorious Beauty, that I may forget all else but Him and become intoxicated with the wine of Thine adoration.  AB06924

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence, by the stars of the heaven of Thy wisdom and the suns of the horizons of Thy utterance, and by the light of Thy Cause whereby Thy earth and heaven were illumined, and by the pearls hidden in the shells of the ocean of Thy power, to make me in all conditions detached from all else but Thee and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy pardon and generosity.  BH11876

O my God! Drive not this poor one from the door of Thy riches, nor this thirsty one from the Kawthar of Thy grace and the Tasnim. O my God! Leave me not to myself and my desires, then rend asunder the veils that have prevented me from arriving at the shore of the might of Thy mercy. O my God! Send down upon me from the clouds of Thy bounty the rains of Thy generosity and grace, then cleanse thereby my heart from the remembrance of all else save Thee.   BH01523

Deliver these souls from the world of fancy and guide them to reality so they may seek after truth, become distant from the world of matter and draw near to the Kingdom, emerge from darkness into the realm of light. Deliver them from the darkness of contingent existence and illumine them with the lights of the realm of transcendence. Make them manifestations of light and dawning-places of fruitage. Make them detached from all else save Thee and acquainted with mysteries.   AB05109
