
O Most Merciful, O Most Compassionate Lord! Aid these souls in service to Thy mighty Cause.   AB02086

O Lord! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy mercy to immerse these servants in the ocean of Thy mercy.  AB12019

O Lord! Aid her through Your might and power to establish Your decisive proof, Your brilliant evidences   AB04570

O Kind Lord! Make these friends of Yours detached from stranger and kin alike... Lord, assist them in this   AB06120

O my Lord! Ordain for me and for all who have turned unto Thee the good of all the worlds that are Thy worlds  BH10594

O Lord! Enable this handmaiden of Thine to achieve that which Thou lovest and with which Thou art well-pleased.  AB09596

O Lord! Make him a guide and one who is guided, and a light shining brightly with the lights of Thy countenance.  AB11177

O my God, direct and keep Thy Servants to accomplish any deeds acceptable before Thee in the Cause of Thy unity.  AB11517

O Lord! Illumine their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge and adorn their temples with the ornament of piety.   BH02789

O God! Train these servants and handmaidens beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree through Thy most great favors  AB10140

O my Lord! Enable Thy servants to turn unto the Tree and its fruits, and the Sun and its lights, and the Sea and its waves.  BH03319

O Lord! Renew them through Thy Most Exalted Word and illumine their hearts, O Thou Possessor of Names and Creator of heaven!  BH02645

O Lord, assist Thy righteous servants to spread the fragrance of flowers and the morning breeze from the gardens of Thy nearness  AB03947

O my Lord! ordain through Thy Most Exalted Pen for him who hath turned unto Thee the best of this world and of the world to come   BH10523

O God! Ordain for Thy loved ones, through Thy Most Exalted Pen, that which shall profit them in this present world and in the next  BH09810

O Lord! Make their trees grow, cause their branches to flourish and bear fruit, and expand their breasts through Thy grace and bounty.  AB03599

Make their cup to overflow, their star to shine, their morn to dawn, their horizon to gleam, their sea to surge and their lamp to blaze!  AB00887

O handmaiden of God! I beseech God that thou mayest remain firm and steadfast in faith and certitude, and arise to serve the Kingdom of God.  AB09794

O my loving Lord! Grant life to these lonely ones and lead them to the Beloved. Free them from prison and bring them into the heavenly court.   AB05302

O Lord! Assist this exalted Branch of the Tree of Thy mercy to remain firm and steadfast, and all who are related to Him in this mighty Covenant   AB02036

O Lord! Withhold not Thy servants from the splendors of the Day-Star of Thy Manifestation, and disappoint them not of the outpourings of Thy days.  BH07927

O Lord! Make easy, through Thy bounty and grace, all that is difficult, and answer, through Thy favor, bounty and generosity, all who supplicate Thee  AB07774

O Thou kind Lord! These are Thy servants who have gathered in this meeting, have turned unto Thy kingdom and are in need of Thy bestowal and blessing.  ABU0070

O Lord! Assist these spiritual ones, make these steadfast ones successful, and exalt the word of these ones firm in Thy Covenant and manifest Testament.  AB02867

O Lord! Make his relatives noble ones, his in-laws righteous ones, and all those connected to him free ones. Aid them through Your grace evening and morn  AB03310

O Thou kind Lord! Through the power of Thy Faith and Thy Covenant bestow with every breath a new life and spirit upon this tender and conscientious youth   AB06709

O Lord! Make them centers of divine inspirations and sources of lordly attributes and dawning-places of merciful lights and recipients of eternal revelations.  AB03609

My God! My God! These are servants whom Thou hast chosen for Thy love, selected for Thy knowledge, and chosen for the appearance of the signs of Thy bestowal.   AB03847

O God! O God! Verily I place my head on the earth and beg of Thee, O Thou Lord of lords to submerge these believers of Thine in the river of the Water of Life!  AB11275

Aid him, O my God, to remember Thee and praise Thy Self and spread Thy Cause among Thy creatures, and enable him to achieve that which Thou lovest and approvest.  BH02534

"Therefore, O Kind One, assist these sanctified souls with heavenly confirmations and make these pure spirits manifestations of the signs of 'were it not for Thee.'"  AB04900

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the Day of Mutual Separation, to assist Thy servants and handmaidens to be steadfast in Thy love and to be detached from all else but Thee.   BH09398

Send down, O God, upon all who have believed in Thee and Thy signs, every good thing which Thy knowledge hath encompassed and which Thou hast sent down in the Tablet.   BB00310

Ordain for him every good thing in the Kingdom of Mysteries, gather him with the righteous ones, and protect him from the calamities of night and the predators of day.  AB06473

O God! O my mighty refuge...Enable him to reveal the evidences of Thy grace amongst Thy servants by the manifestation in his luminous temple of the signs of Thy bounty.  AB01541

O Lord! Expand their breasts, illumine their hearts and give rest to their spirits through Thy copious, abundant outpourings upon the kingdom of the heavens and earth.   AB00678

O thou Compassionate God! Vouchsafe me a heart that may be luminous as a lamp enkindled with Thy love and give me thoughts that will illumine the world with spiritual bounties.  AB02342

O Lord! Be generous unto him with eloquent speech, with an expansive heart, and with a radiant countenance through the light of Your knowledge, O Merciful, O Compassionate One!   AB06562

Give the poor a portion from the ocean of Thy bounty, and through the outpourings of Thy infinite sea bestow freshness and grace upon all created things in the contingent world.  AB08395

I beseech the Most High BAHA'O'LLAH that through His grace, He may endear these souls both in this world and that of the Kingdom, so that they may become the emblems of guidance   AB05165

Therefore, ask God that you may be assisted and confirmed in these attributes which are the meaning of these words, and 'Abdu'l-Baha will pray and seek this great bounty for you   AB05379

We beseech Him to water through thee the earth and all that is therein, that there may grow from it the grass of wisdom and utterance, and the ears of knowledge and understanding.  BH09144

Supplications and entreaties have been offered at the Sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty that thou mayest become the manifestation of that blessed verse which thou hadst written  AB12491

Supplications and entreaties were made at the Threshold of Oneness that whatever is your ultimate desire may be fulfilled and facilitated, and that your power of memory may progress  AB09877

I pray God and supplicate the Threshold of Mercy for both of you that you may attain to that which is the will of God and may be aided and strengthened (while) in this mortal world.  AB07597

Therefore we must pray for each other, implore and supplicate, and show forth utter helplessness and restlessness until the Most Merciful makes manifest that which befits this name   AB02254

to rain down, out of the heaven of Thy mercy and the clouds of Thy tender compassion, what will gladden the hearts of Thy servants, who have turned towards Thee and helped Thy Cause   BH10578

I continually make entreaty and supplication at the Divine Threshold that He may make our dear fellow countrymen perfect in all human virtues and the cause of educating the ignorant.  AB03506

Therefore, I supplicated and implored the Heavenly Father on your behalf and sought infinite confirmations, that you might become the cause of firmness and steadfastness for others.   AB12102

I have prayed for his praiseworthy progress, that he may plant in the world of existence a sapling which, nourished by the dewdrops of grace, may grow and yield goodly fruit forever.  AB03398

We beseech God, exalted be He, to assist thee, honor thee, bestow upon thee, and give thee to drink from the Kawthar of life and whatsoever is befitting this blessed and wondrous Day.  BH09143

O my God! Aid Thy loved ones to remember and praise Thee, then inspire them with that which shall subdue the hearts of Thy creatures and the souls of them that dwell in Thy dominion.   BH05518

O my Lord and my Hope! I beseech Thee...to aid Thy servants in every direction, to quicken their hearts through Thy divine breathings, to revive their souls through Thy gentle breezes  AB11240

I beseech God that He may accept her prayer and facilitate the fulfillment of her hopes, and that He may comfort her eyes through witnessing your success and prosperity in the Kingdom  AB08361

I supplicate before the Kingdom of Al-Abha at every moment, pleading those heavenly gifts might descend upon you and seeking the loving providence of the Merciful Lord on your behalf.  AB07001

Therefore, I too shall offer humble entreaties at the Court of the Self-Sufficient, and seek heavenly bounties and divine confirmations and assistance for you and the Persian friends   AB05103

We have mentioned thee before, and at this time with a mention whose fragrance will not cease throughout the duration of the names of God, the Lord of those in the heavens and earths.   BH10093

O Lord! Assist them to attain Thy good-pleasure and enable them through Thy power and might to exalt the Word of the Covenant. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bestower.  AB03294

to destine for thee a glorious station (or mansion) in His great Kingdom and to open before thy face doors of success and dilation, such that hearts shall be amazed and minds astounded  AB09014

Make these stars radiant, and these lamps brilliant with endless light. Teach these birds the Pahlavi song, and grant these winged ones the power of flight in the heaven of detachment.   AB02549


Whenever I hear that such a soul is found, I praise the Blessed Beauty for His favor and bounty and beg Him to encircle him with the angels of protection and the seraphs of preservation.   ABU1799

O Lord! Quicken their hearts with the breathings of Thy holiness, and expand their breasts with the signs of Thy oneness, and perfume their nostrils with the sweet fragrance of Thy favors.  AB12366

I beseech Thee by the revelations of Thy greatness and by Thy signs and clear proofs to enable all to turn toward Thy direction and to act according to what hath been sent down in Thy Book   BH06043

Supplications and entreaties were made to the Abha Kingdom that He may bestow new assistance and grace so that those souls may ever walk upon the straight path and move along the mighty way  AB06580

that the kind Lord may bestow greatness upon His friends and grant them success - that is, may He give them sovereignty in the world of the spirit and bestow joy in the realm of the Kingdom  AB03801

O Lord! These are birds soaring in recognition - implant in their wings the brilliant signs of might and power that they may fly to the highest summit, the ultimate goal, an infinite space.  AB00934

from the time your name was mentioned and your trace became known, I have beseeched God that you might become a sign of divine knowledge and a manifestation of the bounty of the All-Merciful.  AB08931

"O God! Assist this servant to promote Thy mighty Cause and to spread the sweet fragrance of Thy wondrous remembrance and to raise high Thy lofty standard and to reveal Thy ancient mystery."   AB03446

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by this Day wherein the morn of Thy grace did breathe and the sun of Thy loving-kindness did shine forth, to ordain for Thy chosen ones every good thing in Thy Book   BH10000

I have always been occupied with thoughts of you and have constantly beseeched God that you may be honored in servitude at the divine threshold and shine like a lamp in the gathering of friends  AB06406

O Lord! Assist them in Thy Kingdom and destine for them every good through Thy grace and bounty. O Lord! Support them and enable them to serve Thee and make them mindful of Thee in Thy Kingdom.  AB07158

We beseech God, exalted be He, to aid you and assist you and His loved ones to remember Him, praise Him, serve His Cause and act according to that which He hath revealed in His perspicuous Book.   BH06285

I supplicate at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty, seeking for them boundless grace, unmatched favor, aid and assistance, generosity and bestowal. Convey to them the glad tidings of this prayer.  AB03960

My Lord! Grant them success to walk the most straight path and deliver them from the severest perils. Grant them a true mention throughout ages and cycles and a widespread fame among the servants.  AB00931

Then I beseech Thee, O Thou Goal of the world and Beloved of the nations, to open before my face and the faces of them that love Thee the gates of Thy grace, Thy mercy, Thy favor and Thy blessing.   BH09851

When I saw that likeness, I supplicated and implored, at the Threshold of the Lord of the Kingdom, to make thee a dear one of the two realms and to free thee from every fetter save the love of God.  AB09453

O Lord! Raise from those sanctified souls the cry of 'Holy and Sanctified!' and adorn those abstract forms with the robe of Thy greatest gift. Make eyes seeing, ears hearing, and tongues speaking.   AB02783

Through the favors of the Glorious Lord, it is hoped that those left behind by that pearl will be nurtured in the shell of God's infinite bounties and become manifestations of favors and bestowals.  AB08136

The hope is that those two beloved friends may become exemplars for the people of prostration, and day by day witness evident confirmations, that they may guide the heedless to the praised station.   AB05183

Verily, I beg of God to bestow upon thee and thy relatives the blessing of His clemency and to assign for thee and for them everlasting glory and eternal life in the visible world and in the Kingdom.  AB09125

O Lord! The night of deprivation hath descended upon all creation, so cause the lights of the Sun of Reality to shine upon all beings until the morn of certitude breatheth with the light of knowledge  AB00725

O Generous One! Guide the heedless to the ocean of awareness, illumine Thy handmaidens with the light of Thy Name, and assist them to perform pure and holy deeds and to acquire praiseworthy character.  BH05712

I will pray for him and beseech the Lord of the Kingdom that he may become a valiant soldier of the Lord of Hosts and break asunder the ranks and multitudes of the heedless through the power of proof   AB02457

I am praying every night and I supplicate and implore. I beg of God to bestow upon you infinite grace so that all of us may attain to the station of servitude, so that we may do as He wishes us to do.  ABU2028

O thou who art perfumed by the breaths of God's love! I have read thy letter and have supplicated unto God that He may accept thee into His Kingdom, make thee worthy to be called a child of the Kingdom  AB08987

Lord! Make them signs of Thy mercy among Thy creation and banners of Thy bounty amidst Thy servants. Lord, Lord! Send down upon them Thy blessing, illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge   AB05017

admit him into the garden of providence, dispel from him all perplexities, strengthen him in both beginning and end, make him a guide to the path of guidance, and send down upon him the sign of Thy mercy  AB09777

O Lord, grant this poor one a place in the exalted court, make him esteemed, make him a shining star in the heaven of forgiveness, and bestow upon him shelter and refuge in the shade of the tree of hope.   AB06737

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to exalt him through His Name, to aid him through His verses, to protect him through the hosts of His revelation, and to draw him nigh unto Him in all conditions.  BH11000

From the greatest bounty and bestowal, I beg for you heavenly gifts and seek the nurture of vernal showers. I seek the light of the Sun of Truth and the life-giving breeze from the source of divine favors.  AB09609

God willing, may his blessed son Mirza Habib follow in his footsteps and associate with the people with his character and nature, and may that handmaiden of God become the manifestation of abundant favors.  AB09577

Then send down upon the hearts of Thy loved ones that which will purify them from all else but Thee and cause them to speak Thy praise, that Thy remembrance may be spread through them amongst Thy servants.   BH09563

We beseech the favors of the Lord of all desire that He may quicken the handmaidens of God in that land through the life-giving breeze of His grace and enable them to achieve that which befits this century.  AB08312

O Lord! Deliver them from the evil of the people of error, immerse them in the sea of supplication and entreaty, and make them fountains of guidance, lamps in the darkest night, brilliant and luminous stars   AB06011

We beseech God, exalted be He, to ordain for you that which will bring joy to your eyes and gladden your hearts and expand your breasts, and to aid you in that which will benefit yourselves and your brethren   BH01829

O 'Ata'u'llah! Thou art in the House while the Wronged One remembereth thee in His Most Great Prison and prayeth God to ordain for thee that which beseemeth the heaven of His grace and the sun of His bounty.   BH02506

Do Thou inspire Thy loved ones to preserve, as they would their own eyes, the fruits of the paradise of Thy oneness, the depths of Thy unity, the ocean of Thy singleness, and the seas of Thy grandeur's might   BB00252

Lord, Lord! Make his illustrious descendant follow in his footsteps, chanting his prayers, reciting his words, so that he may be his hidden secret, his evident successor, his glorious light, his mighty proof   AB00853

O Lord! Make them fresh and verdant, flourishing through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy mercy, stirred by the breezes of Thy love, growing and thriving through the heat of the Sun of Truth in Thy Kingdom  AB07075

I unceasingly supplicate my Lord in the depths of nights and at dawn, beseeching Him with all humility and contrition to strengthen you with hosts from the Supreme Concourse and armies of the angels of heaven   AB02811

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and by Thy mercy which hath preceded all things, to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy handmaidens who circle round the throne of Thy grandeur.   BH08468

At all times I beseech and implore from the heaven of the Lord of the Worlds' grace that He may increase their fire of love and illumine the hearts of all with the light of knowledge and whatever is befitting.   BH01450

And We beseech the Lord of Creation to wrap you both in the mantle of righteousness and to make you and them that have believed standards of guidance amidst all creation. Verily, He is powerful over all things.  BH11679

Send down Thy blessings at this moment upon the hearts of those who have ascended unto Thee, and upon their spirits, their souls and their bodies, through all Thy grace and mercy, and Thy bounty and generosity   BB00417

Therefore I beseech God that you may become pure and holy like your father, that you may sacrifice your life for the Blessed Beauty, and that you may be confirmed in all that your father was enabled to achieve.  AB08944

I beseech Thee by the key of Thy Most Great Name, whereby Thou didst open the doors of grace and generosity to the world, to send down upon him who loveth Thee a mercy from Thee and a blessing from Thy presence.   BH03039

We beseech God to make him successful in all conditions in that which He loveth and is pleased with...We beseech Him to ordain for His loved ones that which will bring joy to their eyes and gladness to their hearts  BH03093

O my God, O my God! Aid Thy Afnan in that which Thou lovest and approvest, and ordain for them that which shall protect them from Thine enemies, and assist them in their commerce through Thy generosity and bounty.   BH01376

Night and day I pray and seek divine confirmations and heavenly assistance for you, that you may all become celestial and that the lights of the Abha Kingdom may illumine your soul and heart, even your very being.   AB02798

O my Lord! Assist them to serve Thy servants and aid them to win Thy good-pleasure and exalt them in the Kingdom of existence and illumine them with the lights of Thy bounty in the worlds of the Unseen and the Seen.  AB12680

O Lord! Thou seest Thy sincere servants who have entered the stronghold of Thy Cause and clung to the hem of Thy bounty. I implore Thee to shield them from the evil of Thy servants and the oppression of Thy creatures  BH08959

one who remembers thee at the Sacred Threshold, who prays for thy success, who seeks divine confirmation for thee, who causes the clouds of bounty to rain upon thee, who draws forth for thee the breast of God's mercy  AB07791

I pray to God that thou mayest employ this talent in prayer and supplication, in order that the souls may become quickened, the hearts may become attracted and all may become inflamed with the fire of the love of God!  AB10062

Have mercy upon Thy servant who hath taken refuge at the gate of Thy oneness, who hath sought shelter at the threshold of Thy grace, who hath clung to the cord of Thy favors, who hath held fast to the hem of Thy bounty  AB10805

Make the handmaiden of God Tuba radiant and cause her to soar in the infinite heights. Make her the intimate companion of the birds of that boundless space and harmonize her with the birds of the garden of immortality   AB06262

Verily, I beseech my Lord to grant thee thy greatest wishes and to bestow on thee the privilege of entering into the center of the Kingdom of God; and to make thee a herald in His name, in that vast and extensive region  AB09745

Verily I pray to God to make thee and thy revered husband--under the shadow of His Greatest Name--confirmed in all conditions, aided in the service of the Cause of God with a confirmation on the part of the Merciful Lord.  AB09629

I am always thinking of the loved ones of God, always offering supplications and entreaties at the divine threshold, and I beseech confirmation and success for them, that they may be enabled to serve the Blessed Beauty   ABU1259

My Lord! My Lord! We are indeed lowly ones - exalt us through Thy power and assist us through the confirmations of Thy most glorious Kingdom. Dilate our breasts through the verses of Thy holiness, O my Most Exalted Lord!  AB09093

O God! Send Thy blessings upon Thy loved ones who have taken hold of Thy Book and uttered Thy praise before the faces of Thy creatures. O Lord! Aid them through Thy grace and assist them in that which befitteth Thy days.   BH08973

I raise my voice in lamentation at the threshold of the All-Merciful Lord, expressing utter helplessness and distress, weeping and crying out in anguish, beseeching infinite confirmations for the friends of East and West   AB02363

"O Lord! Grant Thy maidservants the power of discrimination and make Thy handmaidens the dawning-places of the signs of sanctification. Make their hearts intimate with Thy love and their spirits familiar with Thy bounty."   AB06982

My God, my God! Perfume the hearts of Thy loved ones with the outpouring rain of Thy bounties, make their lives pleasant through the sprinklings of the cloud of Thy mercy, and make them signs of guidance among all peoples.   AB04667

O Lord! This is a servant who has been set aflame by the fire of Thy love...Protect him within the protection of Thy safekeeping from the arrows of tribulation and guard him beneath the glances of Thy protection and favors   AB03111

O maid-servant of God! I hope through the Grace and Bounty of the Creator that the lights of guidance may shine upon the members of the household (family) and that they may receive a portion from the bounty of the Kingdom.   AB02097

O Thou kind God, suffer this maidservant of the threshold to become heavenly, angelic, merciful and celestial. Confer Thy providence upon her, reveal to her Thy mercy, Thy clemency, and aid her in the service of the Kingdom.  AB09373

O Educator of existence! These souls are prostrate in worship and in utmost supplication before the Kingdom of the visible world. Therefore, the hope of this servant at Your threshold is that You be their shelter and refuge.   AB12057

My God, my God! Aid Thy loved ones to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee, to serve Thy Cause and to stand firm in their love for Thee. Adorn their deeds with the glory of Thy acceptance and the light of Thy good-pleasure.  BH02643

I beseech Thee to send down from the heaven of Thy loving-kindness upon Thy loved ones that which will renew them in Thy love, cause them to speak Thy praise, and preserve them from whatsoever is repugnant to Thy good-pleasure   BH09871

I beseech Thee...to rain down upon him who hath turned unto Thee the showers of Thy mercy from the clouds of Thy grace. O Lord! Assist him through Thy bounty and ordain for him that which befitteth the heaven of Thy generosity.   BH10987

O Thou Beloved of the horizons! This yearning servant, descendant of the illustrious 'Abdu'llah, seeketh Thy good-pleasure. May he remain protected and preserved in the shelter of Thy protection from the winds of tests and trials.  AB12481

Through the boundless grace and favor, I beseech for you heavenly blessings and seek the nurturing of the vernal rain. I seek the radiance of the Sun of Truth and yearn for the life-giving breeze from the direction of divine favor.  AB09609

When I read it, I turned toward the illumined Shrine and sought divine confirmation, taking refuge in the mighty pillar, and beseeched the favors of the Glorious Lord for both myself and thee. I hope that we shall both be assisted.  AB07972

Whenever I supplicate and entreat toward the Kingdom of Abha I shall beg you confirmation and assistance to open before your faces the door of every good - so that each one of you may become a sign of guidance and a flag of peace.   ABU1468

My God, my God! Deprive not Thy friends of the ocean of Thy generosity, and assist them all through Thy near angels that they may, with complete steadfastness, spend these two days in Thy service. Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty.   BH00390

O God! My God! You are the Confirmer of those who turn their noble faces to You with sincerity, and the Helper of those whom You have guided to Your straight path and Your upright way...through Your mercy which encompasses all things.  AB00846

O my Lord, my Lord! Cause wings to grow upon him that he may soar to the heights of glory and the highest horizon through Thy grace and generosity, and that he may wing his flight in the atmosphere of the heaven of Thy merciful Kingdom   AB03313

Lord! Make their eyes cool with beholding Thy signs, their ears attentive to Thy counsels and teachings, their souls pure through the outpourings of Thy divinity, and their hearts clear through the radiance of the lights of Thy oneness.  AB12157

O my God! Ordain for me, through Thy sovereignty and power, that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds. Then aid me to stand firm in Thy Cause and to arise to serve Thee. Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the Almighty.   BH10573

to crown Thy beloved servant who is in mystic bewilderment, with the crown of salvation amongst the righteous, and to bestow upon him the garment of success amidst them who are free, and to make him a sign of grace in the apex of the world  AB04594

"O Lord! Through heavenly power, protect and preserve the company of the merciful brethren, and through divine bounty, bestow celestial blessings. Open the doors and grant abundant grace. Confirm them and lavish endless favors upon them."   AB03790

O Lord! Though we are weak, Thou art strong. Though we are poor, Thou art rich. Though we are lowly, Thou art mighty. So look not upon our poverty and weakness, but grant according to what befits Thy absolute wealth and power and strength.  ABU0350

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy hidden Name, which none hath known whether past or future, that Thou send down upon him from the heaven of Thy grace that which will make him rich through Thy riches and strengthened through Thy confirmations.   BH05399

O Lord! Grant these helpless ones a remedy, bestow healing upon these forsaken ones, and confer bounty and favor upon these destitute ones. Give these weak souls shelter beneath Thy protection, and grant strength to these frail and poor ones.  AB09606

O my God! I beseech Thee...to cause this youth to ascend unto the heaven of the might of Thy Cause and the seat of the sanctity of Thy dominion. Then give him to drink that which shall open before his heart's face the gates of wisdom and utterance.  BH06568

O my God! Send Thy blessings upon Thy trusted ones and Thy chosen ones who have acted according to that which Thou didst command them in Thy Book. Then adorn them among Thy servants with trustworthiness and religiosity and truthfulness and purity.   BH02003

O my Lord! Thou beholdest them known by Thy Name. Adorn them with that which befitteth this supreme kinship and most exalted station. Thou, verily, art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth, and in Thy grasp are the reins of all things.   BH00465

ordain for those who have arisen to promote Thy Cause, and those who were imprisoned in Thy path and Thy love and who were patient in hardship and adversity seeking Thy good-pleasure, that which will draw them near unto Thee in every world of Thy worlds   BH03504

I beseech Thee...to destine for Thy servant who is detached from corrupt desires, a sanctified soul, content with Thy decree, the attainment of the vision of Grandeur in this world and the next, and to make of him a sign of guidance, a banner of chastity  AB09766

My God, assist me and my companion to serve Your Cause, to be devoted to You, to supplicate at the gate of Your oneness, and enable me to raise my voice in the gatherings of Your handmaidens with Your attributes and praise, and to spread Your fragrances.  AB02193

O my God, my God! Aid Thy loved ones to turn unto Thee and to hold fast to the cord of Thy oneness. O Lord! Illumine their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge and their eyes with the vision of Thy signs and their tongues with Thy praise and glorification.  BH01100

O Thou kind Lord! These souls are Thy lovers who wander in Thy realm...Let Thy soul-reviving breath pass over them, Thy musk-laden breezes revive them and the fragrance of Thy Paradise laden with sweet smelling flowers and herbs bring freedom to their hearts.   AB01178

O my God! Thou art my refuge and the shelter of my hopes and the ultimate goal of my desire and the end of my aspiration. I beseech the Kingdom of Thy mercy to aid this servant to that which Thou lovest and approvest, by Thy mercy which hath preceded all things.  AB09143

O my God! Thou art He Whose power hath encompassed the kingdom of all things, and the seas of Whose bounty and forgiveness have surged over the spirits of the chosen ones. I beseech Thee...to immerse him whom Thou hast raised unto Thee in the depths of Thy mercy  AB04435

My Lord and my Hope! Assist this handmaiden of Thine to promote Thy manifest Faith and establish Thy proof for every faithful striver, and to give drink to every thirsty one from the living waters, and to refine the character of Thy handmaidens among all peoples  AB00965

O Lord, my Lord! With utmost humility, supplication and devotion I lay my face upon the lowly dust and call upon You with lamentation and yearning...O Lord! Have mercy on these pure ones and make firm their feet on this Path that has no crookedness or deviation.  AB00789

I offer prayers at the threshold of the Self-Sufficient and beseech favors and bounties from the Kingdom of mysteries, so that the grace of guidance may encompass all, and every deprived one may receive a portion and every portionless one become abundantly blessed.   AB02654

Glory be unto Thee, O my God, my Beloved, and my Heart's Desire! Aid Thy loved ones to celebrate Thy praise and glorify Thee in such wise as to raise thereby the standards of Thy Cause. O Lord! Enable them to serve Thee, then assist them with the hosts of the unseen   BH02322

O my God, my Beloved, my Ultimate Goal! Grant me a gift from Your presence, verily You are the Near, the Answering One. Make the faces radiant, verily You are the Light of the heavens and earth. Purify the hearts with pure water, verily You are the Most Holy, the Great.  AB00504

"O Lord! Guide Thy servants to the straight path and ordain for them insight into affairs so they may awaken to their own good, whereby their faces may be illumined in Thy Kingdom, their stars may shine in Thy horizon, and their hearts may be enlightened by Thy bounties."  AB00400

I beseech God to make you a lamp of guidance and a light of piety in a glass that is lit and shines between earth and heaven...Plant in his wings the splendors of power and might, and the pinions of glory and invincibility, that he may soar to the highest reaches of success  AB07062

O Lord! Shelter these souls beneath the shadow of Thy grace, make them to be of the company of the righteous, cause them to become detached from all else save Thee, make them intimate with Thy mysteries, and perfume their nostrils with the sweet fragrance of Thy rose-garden.  AB07691

My God, my God! I beseech Thee in the depths of my heart, and with my inner and outer tongue, that Thou wouldst assist Thy servant who hath sought refuge at the gate of Thy oneness, to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee, and to unfurl the sails of the Ark of Thy verses.  AB08483

O Lord! Assist him in Thy service and enable him to arise in Thy remembrance and praise, and gladden the eye of his father that he may witness his attraction to the holy fragrances of Thy sanctity and his success in bearing the Most Great Trust through Thy grace and bounty.   AB07167

Furthermore, We entreat Thee, O God of the world, to destine for those who are related to him that which shall draw them nigh unto Thee under all conditions. Thou, verily, art the All-Sufficing, the Most Exalted. No God is there save Thee, the All-Glorious, the Most Bountiful.  BH08860

I beseech Thee, O my God...that Thou wouldst look upon Thy sincere servants with the eyes of Thy mercy, cast upon them the mantle of Thy light, make them steadfast in Thy Cause, and render them the dawning-places of Thy signs and the daysprings of Thy spirit and Thy fragrances   BH09776

O beloved handmaidens at the threshold of the Divine Unity! 'Abdu'l-Baha supplicates at the Divine Threshold with utmost lowliness and pleading, begging for heavenly aid and bounty, that ye may be crowned with His most great gift and become the recipients of His endless favors.  AB09466

O Lord! Enlighten the hearts. O Kind Lord! Make the hearts like unto a rose garden and flower bed. O Peerless Beloved! Waft the fragrances of bestowals, shine forth the lights of bounty that hearts may become pure and unsullied, may receive their portion from Thy confirmations.  AB06464

Make them signs of Your love, banners of Your knowledge, traces of Your remembrance, and emblems of Your religion in Your lands. Remember them in Your Kingdom and assist them in Your Realm to be steadfast in Your Cause, firm in Your religion, and deeply rooted in Your oneness.   AB02177

O God! O God! Thou beholdest these faces are brightened by the Light of Guidance, these eyes are looking toward Thy Kingdom El Abha, these hearts are overflowing with Thy Love amongst mankind and these breasts are dilated with the signs of Thy Unity in the expanse of the earth.   AB04214

O God! O Thou Who dost revive souls with the fragrant breaths wafting from the gardens of holiness in the midst of Paradise! I take refuge at Thy spacious door, beseeching Thee to breathe with Thy merciful breath into the heart of every servant who supplicates Thy divine Kingdom.  AB00686

O Lord! Gather them beneath the banner of the Covenant with radiant faces, and assemble them in the shade of the Tree of Life with hearts overflowing with joy, and immerse them in the ocean of grandeur until they dive and plunge into the depths of the divine attributes and names   AB03074

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy generosity to ordain for Thy loved ones there that which will draw them nigh unto Thee. Then write down for them the reward of attaining Thy presence and the good of this world and the world to come.  BH02230

O Lord! Teach her the mysteries of the Kingdom of Your mercy and the realities of the realm of Your oneness, and loosen her tongue in expression of Your unity so that the hearts of the handmaids may be revived thereby and their spirits may be attracted to Your Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB03316

My God, my God! There hath turned toward Thee a handmaiden from among Thy handmaidens, seeking from Thee Thy boundless grace and ancient loving-kindness. O Lord! Disappoint her not, through Thy bounty and loving-kindness, and withhold her not from the ocean of Thy mercy and bestowals.   BH05947

My prayer and ardent supplication, at eventide and at dawn, to the Threshold of the Desired One is that those blessed souls may receive the invisible assistance from the Abha Kingdom, and may be enabled to achieve that which beseemeth this wondrous age and becometh this glorious century  AB02832

O Lord! Make these pure and holy souls the children of the Kingdom, and make these illumined faces the lamps of the Merciful. Fill these living hearts to overflowing with the wine of Thy love, and grant these free spirits infinite joy and delight through the glad-tidings of the Kingdom.  AB02205

O Kind Lord! Nurture this suckling babe in the bosom of Thy bounty and, through the outpouring of Thy grace, rear this weak and young one. Through Thy favor and generosity, may he grow and develop day by day, become worthy to render service, and engage in servitude at Thy Holy Threshold.  AB06501

O my God! O my God! This is Thy servant who hath turned towards the kingdom of Thy mercy and inclined his face with devotion towards Thy Countenance... O God! Afford him his highest wish, look favorably upon his aspirations, and cause him to become a sign of Thy mercy amongst all people.  AB00640

O Living One! O Self-Subsisting One! O Lord! Make them stars in the horizon of guidance and meteors against the satans of self and passion, and make them bow down and prostrate themselves before the Most Glorious Kingdom. O Lord! Strengthen them with powerful might and grant them a way out.  AB02303

My Lord! Make their mornings blessed and illuminate their lamp and ordain their success and prosperity and comfort their spirits with holy fragrances that perfume their gatherings and breezes of intimacy that pass through their assemblies and sweet breaths that spread in their sanctuaries.   AB00681

Strengthen, O God, Thy loved ones who have turned to the horizon of Thy Cause, who have detached themselves from all else but Thee, and who have arisen to serve Thee in such wise as to exalt their stations in Thy dominion and kingdom and to elevate their remembrance in Thy realm and heaven.   BH00570

O my kind Lord! Your servant Sulayman has grown weary of this world so that he may sit upon the Solomonic throne in the world above, see Your face and acquire Your attributes. O Forgiver! Forgive his sins, grant him shelter, make him aware, and in the world of mysteries immerse him in lights   AB02560

Pour forth patience upon her spouse, exemplar of the righteous and choicest of the virtuous, and upon her noble children. O Lord! Strengthen them with angels from heaven, fortify their backs with hosts from Your Most Glorious Kingdom, and reinforce their efforts with Your endless confirmations   AB02639

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy ceaseless outpouring, Thy all-encompassing grace, and Thy complete confirmation to aid Thy loved ones through Thy great favors and enable them to unfurl the sails of servitude upon the seas of Thy Cause, to light the lamp of love within the glass of people's hearts  AB01760

"Through the grace and favor of the Blessed Beauty, it is hoped that Mulla Aqa Baba will be like his father, and Fatimih Nura will follow the way and conduct of Khadijih Kubra. I will pray for both that they may be confirmed and assisted in what befits and is worthy of the descendants of martyrs."  AB01422

O Lord! Grant this helpless servant shelter in Thy mighty stronghold and dwelling in Thy lofty refuge. Light a brilliant lamp in his heart and cause a spring of pure water to flow from his breast. Open wide before his face the gates of bounty and inspire his heart with the mysteries of the unseen.  AB09272

O Kind God! You delivered Luhrasb's kith and kin from the prison of this world - lead them to the court of Gushtasb who is close to the Divine Threshold and among the most exalted prophets. O Bestower! Make the blessed faces of this group radiant in Thy Kingdom and brilliant like the sun and moon.   AB04330

I beseech God to cause you to speak forth praise of His Most Glorious Beauty - praise that would bewilder the minds of the eloquent and stupefy the thoughts of the learned - and to make you a sign of His bounty among the daughters and a brightly shining candle of His love unto all hearts and souls.  AB09069

I press my forehead to the dust at the threshold of the gate of guidance, supplicating to the Supreme Kingdom that God may make you lamps lit by the hand of the Most Great Mercy, so that you may illuminate those institutes and hills with a light radiating from the bounty of the Most Glorious Beauty.   AB03035

Verily this servant sendeth greetings to him and mentioneth him and beseecheth God to make his breaths a lamp unto the darkness of the world and his face a healing to the sick among the nations, and through the ocean of His wisdom to purify chronic and persistent diseases and base and degraded morals.  BH01305

Were ye on that Day to behold the Letters of Truth, ye would deem it too great for your souls to believe in them. Yet ye were thus before and shall be thus after. Therefore follow ye the Command of God, for He knoweth best all who are in the heavens and on earth and whatsoever lieth between them.  BB00004

O God! O Thou Worshipped One! Confirm these souls so that they may raise the call of Thy Kingdom and suffer humanity to be delivered from the dark precipes of the world of nature, and cause their entrance in the divine world. May they illumine every dark one and make heavenly every one who is earthly.  AB10779

O Lord! Breathe a new spirit into the hearts that they may become Your confidantes and pour a joy into the hearts that they may at all times be engaged with Your mention. Give joy and exhilaration unto the hearts so that at every moment they may have a new spirit and attain unto immeasurable happiness.  AB03975

And I beseech the All-Merciful, the Compassionate, to prepare the mighty cause and establish the straight path, and to open wide before all faces the spacious gate, and to strengthen the sincere ones with the mighty spirit, and to illumine their inner vision through the outpourings of that glorious Day.  AB09073

May God, the All-Merciful, make you who are most grateful servants, manifestations of His infinite bestowals and perfect grace. Lowly and tearful, I raise my suppliant hands at the Divine Threshold and ask God that He may surround you with His bounties. May My Lord crown your endeavours and confirm you.  AB01384

Therefore I beseech God for confirmation, that He may become your Helper and Protector, your Supporter and Aid, so that, God willing, you may spend your remaining days in comfort and ease, be gladdened by divine glad-tidings, and become the cause of joy and delight to the handmaidens of the All-Merciful.   AB04044

O my God and the Helper of the sincere ones and those who are firm in Thy Covenant and are assured by Thy promise! Aid these, Thy servants, to serve at the threshold of Thy holiness, and make them signs of guidance and stars of piety, shining from the supreme horizon and gleaming from the highest zenith.   AB00450

I supplicate and beseech at the threshold of the Divine Oneness and ask assistance and favor for thee, so that with his honor thy dearer-than-life brother Aqa Siyyid Asadu'llah, you may be assisted and confirmed in all circumstances, and in both worlds may achieve the desire of your heart and peace of soul  AB04308

Grant souls another resolve and cast another passion into heads, that they may seek everlasting glory and the delights of the new world, that they may soar toward the higher realm and seek the most exalted horizon, that they may hasten to the gathering of grandeur and receive bounty from the Abha Kingdom.   AB02814

O Divine Providence! Now is the time for the hosts of the Abha Kingdom to charge forth. Now is the hour for the confirmations and assistance of the angels of the Concourse on high. Fulfil that which Thou didst promise, and into our cups, tainted with the dregs of sorrow, pour forth the wine of Thy favour.   AB00863

so that it may move forward in every aspect of spiritual development, that the light of divine guidance may shine forth, the reviving fragrance of the rose-garden of God may waft over it and the clouds of His gracious favour may rain down, thus bestowing freshness and beauty to those territories and regions  AB04766

O Thou Kind God! We are Thy humble servants; endear us in Thy Kingdom! We are poor; enrich us through Thy heavenly Treasury! We are ignorant; suffer us to become informed with Thy Mysteries. We are dead; quicken us with the Breaths of Thy Holy-Spirit. We are extinct; enkindle us with the Fire of Thy Love, O God!  ABU2901

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause and the fire of Thy Sacred Tree to confirm him who hath turned unto Thee and held fast to the cord of Thy bounty. Ordain for him that which will gladden his eyes and rejoice his heart. Then send down upon him from the heaven of Thy generosity a blessing from Thy presence.   BH10279

I beseech God that thou mayest be the recipient of His special favors and be illumined with the light of His knowledge. We implore God to assist thee and thy mother to attain unto the Most Great Steadfastness, and to aid you both with the means of earth and heaven, and to draw you near unto Him in all conditions.   BH10118

"O Lord! Assist the Afnan to achieve the greatest virtue in the world of humanity, and expand his breast with the light of certitude, and make his feet firm in Thy love, supported by a power from the unseen realm of possibility, and protect his two brothers beneath the wing of Thy mercy, O Educator of the worlds!"  AB04930

Thou knowest, O my God, that in this most great tribulation and darkest ordeal, I make mention of him who hath turned unto Thee with pure heart, that the attraction of Thy verses may seize him unto a station wherein he may be wholly detached from all else save Thee, and may make mention to the people of Thy bounties   BH05346

Grant these assured souls the cup of bounty and bestow upon these pleased and pleasing hearts the exhilaration of the wine of favors, that remembrance of Thy perfection and beauty may become wine, and they may burst into song and melody and bring delight and rapture to the listeners and ecstasy and joy to the seekers  AB01612

O Thou Kind Lord! Make these friends Thy helpers, and bestow upon these loved ones service at Thy Threshold. Make them day by day more radiant and more enchanting. Make them fragrant flowers in the Garden of the Most Glorious, and brilliant stars in the supreme horizon. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, and the Kind.  AB08054

I supplicate, with a contrite heart, unto the Most Glorious Kingdom, and with hands of entreaty outstretched toward the Supreme Heaven, that He may assist His sincere servants with a new spirit and with hosts mighty in their power and warning from His most exalted Kingdom, with standards from among the greatest signs.  AB08437

"O Lord! Strengthen the cultivated one with a mighty host from Your Most Glorious Kingdom and assist him with a penetrating power in the realities of things, that he may make firm those who waver upon the Straight Path and call the seekers to the supreme triumph and guide the yearning ones to the manifest outpouring."   AB01102

O God! Make this assemblage radiant. Make the hearts merciful. Confer the bounties of the Holy Spirit. Endow them with a power from heaven. Bless them with heavenly minds. Increase their sincerity, so that with all humility and contrition they may turn to Thy kingdom and be occupied with service to the world of humanity.   ABU0394

O Lord! Make him a brilliant star in the horizon of Your remembrance, a radiant light in the heaven of Your praise, a fragrant breeze from the garden of Your paradise, a wafting zephyr from the direction of Your grace, a ripe fruit from the tree of Your oneness, and a beauteous, blossoming rose in the meadows of Your gift.   AB00800

O Loving Lord! Your friends are wandering in Your path and attached to Your face. They are yearning to behold You and are caught in limitless longing and burning. They hasten toward You, seek Your countenance, speak Your mysteries. Confirm them, grant them success, that they may be steadfast in servitude and arise in service  AB03264

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who illuminest the world and art manifest through the Most Great Name, to assist me and Thy leaves to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy handmaidens, and to ordain for me and for them every bounty that lay hidden in the heaven of Thy generosity and the treasuries of Thy loving-kindness.   BH06257

My God, my God! Aid this helpless servant through Thy grace and mercy among all peoples. Illumine his sight to behold the manifest light. Assist him with hosts from on high...Make him a brilliant star in the horizon of guidance, a luminous lamp in the heights of glory, and a tree firm in root with branches extending heavenward  AB00898

I beg of God to make thee fluent in tongue, pure in heart, strong in spirit, severed in heart from all else save God, and occupied in the praise of God, to continue in prayer and supplication unto God, to be humble, meek, spiritual, free from the earthly world and its concerns, and awakened to the Kingdom and its Manifestation.  AB08990

O kind Creator! Be a shelter and refuge to the handmaidens of the Merciful and assist the enlightened friends with the grace of dawn. Grant these supplicating souls a fresh spirit with every breath of Your favors, and bestow upon these pure hearts boundless strength, that they may arise as they ought to fulfill their servitude.  AB01010

O Lord! Strengthen their loins, fortify their backs, perfect their joy, complete their light, and dilate their breasts through Thy divine confirmations, that they may become luminous stars in the dark horizons. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Glorious, the Generous. Verily, Thou art the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB00171

O Lord! I beseech Thee by them, by Thy greatest signs and the manifestations of Thy grandeur in the kingdom of creation, to assist Thy servant to act according to what Thou hast commanded in Thy Book and to remember Thy chosen ones and pure ones. Verily Thou art the Helper, the Wise. There is no God but Thee, the Mighty, the Great.   BH00864

O Peerless Beloved! These souls are Thy friends and the servants of Thy Threshold. They are intoxicated with Thy wine and wandering in Thy desert. They are thirsting for Thy Salsabil and following Thy mighty proof. Confirm them and grant them success, so that each one may become a sign of guidance and a gift of the Supreme Concourse.  AB07550

O Kind Lord! These descendants are saplings from the rose garden of martyrdom. Make them fresh and verdant through the rains of grace and bounty, that they may arise with the utmost delicacy and freshness, keep alight the candle of the noble martyrs, and make green and flourishing the field of hopes of those who sacrificed themselves.   AB01383

O Lord! Make the father of this new servant precious in Thy Kingdom and cause the mother of this confidant of mysteries to soar in the heights of mysteries. Immerse [them] in the ocean of forgiveness and make [them] companions of the people of faith. Bestow the rays of [Thy] favor and freely grant the outpouring of pardon and kindness.  AB02121

Cause them to love one another so as to sacrifice their spirits, expend their money and give up their desires for each other's sake! O Lord, make to descend upon them quietness and tranquillity! Shower upon them the clouds of Thy Mercy in full abundance, and make them to characterize themselves with the characteristics of the spiritual!  AB02317

Then gather them on the shore of Thy bounty and grace, then detach them from all else besides Thee such that they fear no one and are disturbed by no soul. Then open their eyes, O my God, through the wonders of Thy power and the sovereignty of Thy might until they witness all things in Thy grasp and every matter in the palm of Thy power.  BH02467

O my God, my God! These are the sincere ones who have bowed down at the gate of Thy oneness...Make them overflowing clouds, brilliant rays, piercing meteors, and penetrating thunderbolts casting down the Covenant-breakers and driving away the violators. Make them signs of guidance among mankind, lights shining from the supreme horizon...   AB00415

O Lord! Make them tall trees in the gardens of Thy love and speaking tongues in Thy remembrance and rising stars from the horizon of Thy mercy and brilliant rays from the orb of Thy oneness and beauteous flowers in the garden of Thy mercy, and preserve them in the cave of Thy protection and shelter and guard them with the eye of Thy mercy.   AB00436

I beseech from the divine Threshold infinite bounties for thee, and seek from the horizon of oneness the dawning of the light of bestowal, that the clouds of mercy may pour down their rain, and the breeze of providence may waft, and the Sun of Truth may shine forth, and the field of heart and soul may attain boundless freshness and delicacy.  AB09322

O Thou Provider! Assist Thou these noble friends to win Thy good pleasure, and make them well-wishers of stranger and friend alike. Bring them into the world that abideth forever; grant them a portion of heavenly grace; cause them to be true Baha'is, sincerely of God; save them from outward semblances, and establish them firmly in the truth.  AB00044

O Lord! This group are self-sacrificing, longtime friends who are intimate companions with each other. Their discourse is sweet and sugary, and their gathering is like the supreme paradise, for they seek Your face, tread Your path, speak Your mysteries, and are constantly searching to find what is befitting of this age and to adorn the world   AB04138

We have always been and continue to be supplicating the Abha Kingdom that It may bestow such a bounty that those essences of being and dawning-places of witness may become the rising-points of the lights of the praised Sovereign, and may be raised up in this human world with such qualities as to become the everlasting life of the human world.  AB03185

My God! Reach them with the fragrances from the flowers of Thy gardens of mercy and the breezes of dawn from the orchards of Thy oneness. Immerse them in the oceans of Thy mercy and make their flowing tears a cooling draught to extinguish the fire of their hearts, to soothe the flames of their sighing, and to comfort them in their separation.  AB01852

Praise be to God, it contained news of the guidance of Mirza Farrukh Khan, that seeker of the Beloved of the horizons who traversed the path of search until he discovered the destination of truth, and his eyes were illumined by the light of the Blessed Cause, and through eternal grace made his mind's realm the envy of rose garden and meadow.   AB06634

I ask Thee, O my God, to give him to drink of the milk of Thy bounty so that he may raise the standards of Thy victory [in his youth] and arise in his maturity to serve Thy Cause, just as he arose in his youth at Thy command, that Thy proof concerning him may be fulfilled and that the breezes of nearness may take hold of him through Thy grace.   BH09444

I remember every one of them in my prayers, and beg Confirmation and Assistance for each from the Threshold of the Blessed Perfection, so that He may usher in all of them in His Kingdom, gather them under the shade of His Providences, confer upon them an asylum in His Court and submerge them in the Sea of Lights in the Tabernacle of Testimony.   ABU1024

O my God, my God! This is a tender, fresh, verdant branch which Thou hast planted on the banks of the streams of Thy bounty in the garden of Thy mercy and the grove of the love of Thy Beauty of Oneness. O Lord! Water it with the water of mercy, nurture it with the hands of grace and kindness, and make it a herald of Thy Name throughout all regions  AB11839

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art my Companion in my lowliness, to rain down upon Thy loved ones from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will cause them to be satisfied with Thy pleasure, and will enable them to turn unto Thee and to be detached from all else except Thee. Ordain, then, for them every good conceived by Thee and predestined in Thy Book.   BH08850

I turn my face toward the true heaven and implore the Lord of Hosts with tears and supplication, begging that the pure hearts of those loved ones may ever be illumined by the rays of the Sun of Truth, and the nostrils of the friends be perfumed by His musk-laden breeze, and day by day the hearts may become more radiant and the spirits more attracted.  AB07687

O Thou pitiful God! These friends are perfectly infatuated with Thy nearness; they have given their hearts for the beauty of Thy face; are devoted to Thy Kingdom and are intoxicated by the wine of belief. In the meeting of the covenant they are bearing in their hands the cup of anxiety, needing Thy benevolence and yearning for the heavenly blessings.  AB01295

O Thou kind Lord! Safeguard these friends within the sanctuary of Thy protection and enable them to cast aside all things, both great and small. Free them from the world of being and enable them to be detached from this contingent world and its defilements. Refresh them by the breaths wafting from the abode of the Placeless and bestow upon them life anew.  AB10077

O Lord! These men are Thy servants and these women Thy handmaidens. They are detached from all save Thee and captivated by Thy love...Confirm them and quicken them through the breaths of the Holy Spirit. Cause them to be born of the spirit and baptize them in the fountain of Job, that all may become pure and holy and shine like lights in the human world.   AB06574

I continually beseech assistance and bounty from the presence of the One and request grace and gifts, that you may ever be manifestations of the favors of the One God and recipients of the generosity and benevolence of the Lord of creation, until grace and gifts encompass all directions and the light of reality shines forth and the light of oneness rises.  AB00797

O Lord! Make Aqdiyyih Akhtar, the unique daughter of these handmaidens of the All-Merciful, successful through Thy greatest gift and assist her in serving the loved ones. Grant her the tongue of teaching and bestow eloquent speech, that they may invite the lost ones to the path of salvation and become the manifestation of the confirmations of Thy Kingdom.  AB04721

O Thou Glory of the Most Glorious! O Sun of the Supreme Concourse! Guide the friends to the rose garden of truthfulness and sincerity, and adorn them with the ornament of purity and the embellishment of truth-seeking, goodly intent and pure nature. Free their hearts from every idle fancy and make their faces shine like the star of the heaven of righteousness.  AB06090

O Lord! Fill that faithful servant like an overflowing cup of mercy, that he may intoxicate precious souls with the wine of love, engage in servitude at Thy sacred threshold, arise to serve Thy loved ones, rejoice in sacrificing his life, and through joy attain success. May he become a divine being and through the breath of the All-Merciful guide the seekers.  AB10921

I beseech Thee with my heart, my tongue, my spirit and my soul to open before the faces of Thy loved ones and handmaidens the gates of Thy greatest mercy, and to send to the arena of their hearts clouds of abundant rain, layer upon layer, adorned with the outpourings of Thy mercy, showering upon them the rain of Thy favors and the downpour of grace and bounty   AB04228

May He make you the cause of exalting the Word of God and the means of spreading divine characteristics. May He grant expansion of heart and bestow breadth and capacity of mind and soul, so that in the gathering of friends you may be illumined and radiant with the lights of the All-Merciful's grace, and manifest and embodied with the effects of divine bounty.   AB04418

"O Lord! Grant a remedy to these helpless ones, bestow healing upon these afflicted ones, and confer bounty and favor upon these destitute ones. Give shelter in Thy protection to these weak souls, and grant strength to these frail and poor ones."  AB09606

O Lord! Illumine the hearts of Thy loved ones with the lights of Thy bounty, perfume the nostrils of Thy servants with the sweet fragrances of holiness wafting from the gardens of Thy most high paradise, aid them to obey Thy Cause and to remain firm and steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament, and to be enkindled by the fire burning in the Tree of Thy divinity.   AB02111

O Lord! Water this mighty tree from the spring of Thy grace, guard it with the eye of Thy care, preserve it in the shade of Thy protection, let the outpouring of the clouds of Thy mercy continue upon it, encompass it with the glances from the eyes of Thy divinity, and make it blessed and fruitful with the fruits of Thy oneness in the paradise of Thy glorification  AB11929

I beseech Thee to aid them with Thine excellent assistances, Thy former grace, and Thy subsequent bounty, and to cause the flight feathers to grow upon their weakened wings, that they may soar to the summit of Thy transcendent greatness and the heaven of Thy exalted might, that they may find solace in Thy enduring favors and be illumined by Thy resplendent lights.  AB00555

O kind Lord! These souls are Thy friends and this gathering is longing for Thee. They are captives of the lights of Thy Beauty and ecstatic by Thy musk-scented locks. Their hearts are Thine; they are Thy poor, humble and homeless; they have severed themselves from relative and stranger and have established the relationship of unity with Thee. They have adored Thee.  AB03524

This servant has the utmost joy from that praiseworthy party and in the evening and morning beseeches at the threshold of the Forgiving Lord and seeks their success, prosperity and salvation. My hope is that Sirustan will become the nest and dwelling place of heavenly birds and the meadow of the people of truth - and this is not difficult for my Compassionate Lord.   AB01564

My God and my Lord and my Support! I beseech Thee by Thy comprehensive grace and Thy mighty favor to assist Thy loved ones in remembering Thee and praising Thee and thanking Thee in the places of Thy bounties, and preserve them in the shelter of Thy protection from the evil of the most wretched among Thy creatures, and grant them the good of this world and the next.   BH03571

O my God, my God! Aid these souls to serve Thee and inspire them with servitude to Thee and unfurl over them the banner of Thy mercy and shelter them beneath the shade of the tree of Thy mercy and cause them to speak Thy remembrance and make them steadfast in Thy love and open before their faces the doors of blessing and wealth through Thy bounty, O my Most Exalted Lord!  AB02794

O Lord! Though this scattered group are weak and powerless, yet among the people of creation they are the army of life and the hosts of salvation. Therefore assist them with the hosts of Thy Supreme Kingdom and strengthen them with the angels of Thy most exalted Concourse, that they may scatter the army of death and shatter the ranks of darkness with the light of guidance.  AB01203

I beseech Thee...that Thou mayest send down upon this servant all Thy mercy, Thy generosity and Thy favor, and aid him to stand firm in Thy Cause and be steadfast in Thy Word, and grant him the good of this world and the next, and bless him in all his affairs, and keep him safe and protected in the shelter of Thy protection, encompassed by the glances of the eye of Thy mercy.  AB04628

O God! O Lord of faithfulness, Bestower of bounties, Forgiver of sins, Confirmer of the sincere ones in guidance, Deliverer of the supplicants in this worldly life from this dark pit! Assist these souls to acquire the light of piety from the dawning-places of Thy Most Beautiful Names, and guide them to the most excellent path wherein there is neither crookedness nor deviation.  AB01370

O Lord! Make manifest what Thou promised in the heavenly Books and reveal what Thou spoke through the tongues of the Prophets. Show Thy divine power and make evident Thy heavenly bounty. Make this country a supreme paradise and make this East and West luminous throughout the earth. Make these Parsees heavenly beings and make these nameless and traceless ones like radiant stars.   AB02346

O my God, my God! Thou seest Thy attracted servants in the land guiding others to the path of righteousness, speaking Thy praise among the people, establishing conclusive proof of Thy magnificent bounty upon hearts and minds...Make them trees firm of root, with extended branches, near-hanging fruits, wondrous flowers, verdant leaves, swaying and bending in Thy resplendent garden  AB00720

O my God! O my God! Verily, Thou dost perceive those who are present here turning unto Thee, relying upon Thee. O my Lord! O my Lord! Illumine their eyes by the light of love, and enkindle their hearts by the rays streaming from the heaven of the Supreme Concourse. Suffer them to become the signs of Thy bestowal amongst the people and the standards of Thy grace amongst mankind.   ABU0101

O God! Favor the wise friends, prepare a spiritual feast, adorn the heavenly banquet and show forth Thy luminous countenance. O Lord! Ennoble the righteous ones and manifest eternal bounty. Make mysteries manifest and diffuse the lights. Make every heart intimate with Thy remembrance and every eye bright and seeing. Make the friends precious and grant them wisdom and discernment.  AB01617

O Lord! Send down from heaven blessed waters upon the gardens of the hearts of the loved ones, and cause to grow therein the sweet basil of knowledge and wisdom, and adorn them with the flowers of assurance, and cause to flow therein the fountain of certitude and the living waters. Then crown the branches of their trees with the diadems of "Allah-u-Akbar" and "La ilaha illa'llah".   AB01976

O Thou kind Lord! Make these servants noble in the world above and in this world make them dear, steadfast and firm. Bestow upon them the light of Thy favor and draw them toward Thyself through Thy divine power. Give glad-tidings to their souls and rejoice their hearts. Make them luminous, heavenly, divine, and holy, and make them a source of pride and glory to the world of humanity  AB12371

I beseech from the threshold of Oneness forgiveness for those who have ascended to God, and I implore from the Blessed Beauty's threshold that you may be confirmed in achieving your utmost desire, that a goodly end may be assured and ordained, that your children may become manifestations of the good-pleasure of the Lord, and that Baha'u'd-Din may be accepted at the Supreme Threshold.  AB07647

With utmost humility, supplication and entreaty, I beseech His Holiness the Manifest Beauty to make each of His friends a sign of guidance, that they may become detached from all else save Him, become manifestations of sanctification and essences of purification in all perfections in every direction, be pointed to with fingers of praise on the horizon of existence like the shining moon   AB02975

Though they are in this world, make them aware of another realm and perfume their nostrils with the fragrance from the rose garden of the Abha Kingdom. Grant heavenly strength and divine power. Bestow eloquent speech and teach them compelling utterance, so that each may raise the song of inner meanings and realities in this divine garden like celestial birds, and lift up a spiritual melody.  AB05382

O thou who art guided by the light of guidance! Although I have no time, nevertheless I have engaged in mentioning thee, that thou mayest find joy and delight and render thanks for the favors of the Peerless Lord - for the escort of His grace hath arrived, the light of guidance hath shone forth, and in the night-chamber of heart and soul the lamp of the Merciful's bestowal hath been kindled.  AB08895

O Lord! Make this group the manifestation of divine favors and the dawning-places of heavenly bestowals. Give them to drink from the boundless ocean and make them illumined and radiant from the Sun that has risen from the Horizon of Truth. Grant such an outpouring that its lights may spread in the eternal morn; bestow such a grace that its effects may become renowned in the everlasting realm.  AB03626

"O Kind Lord! Make this insignificant handmaiden full of enthusiasm, and grant this wandering maidservant shelter and refuge under the shade of the Tree of Life, so that I may supplicate and implore at Your Threshold of Oneness with utmost humility and entreaty, and become restless, and through Your assistance and favor may win the ball of precedence and excellence from all Your handmaidens."   AB04879

My God, my God! This is Thy truthful servant and Thy sincere bondsman who has heard the call raised from the highest heaven... O Lord! Make him a herald of harmony throughout all regions and a bearer of glad tidings of the Word of the Lord of the Daybreak among the lovers. Through him guide the souls, illumine the faces, dilate the hearts, and gladden the spirits with the signs of Thy bestowal   AB03034

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy wisdom to assist Thy servants to turn unto Thee, to return unto the court of Thy bounty, and to arise before the manifestation of Thy gifts. Then write down for them, through Thy grace, that which shall profit them in all the worlds of Thy worlds, and ordain for them the good of the hereafter and of the former time.   BH02225

O Lord! Help this daughter of the Kingdom to be exalted in both worlds; cause her to turn away from this mortal world of dust and from those who have set their hearts thereon and enable her to have communion and close association with the world of immortality. Give her heavenly power and strengthen her through the breaths of the Holy Spirit that she may arise to serve Thee. Thou art the Mighty One.  AB11249

There we will put our brow at the Holy Threshold and pray in behalf of all the friends throughout the world, supplicating His Confirmations so that they may arise to diffuse the sweet scent of his utterances and summon all men to the Standard of Universal Peace, Brotherhood, divine Civilization and spirituality. May their hearts be inspired with the Holy Spirit and the powers of the Kingdom of Abha.   ABU2351

O Lord! Make this poor servant honorable at Thy divine threshold, and make this helpless fallen one exalted and learned. Make his heart an ocean and his soul the companion of the world above, the confidant of the angel and in harmony with the melodious bird, so that like the birds of the heavenly rose-garden he may warble, and like the free cypress by the divine stream he may flourish and find repose.  AB09338

O Lord! Make this needy servant honored at Thy divine threshold, and make this helpless and lowly one exalted and wise. Make his heart an ocean and his soul the companion of the realm above, the confidant of the angel and in harmony with the tumultuous bird, so that like the birds of the heavenly rose-garden he may warble, and like the free cypress by the divine stream he may flourish and find repose.  AB09338

O Lord! Illumine all eyes with the radiance of light, bring joy to all spirits through the pure wine that overfloweth from heavenly cups, perfume all souls with the gentle breeze wafting from the gardens of holiness across all regions. Make them flowers in the Garden of Refuge, lofty trees in the Supreme Paradise, birds singing Thy praise amidst all creatures, and stars rising in the horizon of glory.  AB00775

With utmost humility, supplication and entreaty, I beseech the favor and generosity of the Sovereign of the unseen and visible realms that He may cause these two saplings in the garden of the love of God to become full of grace and freshness and fruitful through the rain of His bounty and mercy, and grant them such growth and development in these gardens that they may become the adornment of paradise.   AB04873

O God! O Thou Who appeared on Sinai and manifested in Seir and shone forth from Paran and illumined from the supreme horizon and appeared from the Most Glorious Kingdom! I press my forehead and rub my face in the holy dust whose fragrance has wafted from the Dawning-Place and perfumed the horizons... to look upon these pure ones with the eyes of Thy mercy and encompass them with Thy divine outpourings.  AB00515

O God! O Master of Kings and Merciful to the servants! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name and Thy sovereignty which prevaileth over the nations to ordain for those who have laid fast hold on the Sure Handle and clung to the Snow-White Path and the Resplendent Law, and believed in that which hath been sent down from the heaven of Thy Will, that which is best for them in the hereafter and in this world.  BH05652

Now it is hoped that that Choice Fruit may again, with aid from the Ancient Beauty and outpourings from His Kingdom, give that withered garden infinite freshness and refinement, causing the feeble young trees to flourish through the sprinklings of the clouds of divine love, that they may give forth foliage, and the fragrant breeze of the love of God may spread abroad, perfuming every corner of that house.  AB02545

Enable Thy servants, O my God, to discover the things Thou didst desire for them in Thy Kingdom. Acquaint them, moreover, with what He Who is the Origin of Thy most excellent titles hath, in His love for Thee, been willing to bear for the sake of the regeneration of their souls, that they may haste to attain the River that is Life indeed, and turn their faces in the direction of Thy Name, the Most Merciful.  BH03289

O Lord! He is thirsty - give him to drink from the sweetest flowing water. He is hungry - feed him from the table that hath descended from Thy lofty heaven. O Lord! He is naked - clothe him with the garments of sanctification. He is bare-headed - crown him with the crown of detachment. He is poor - guide him to the hidden treasure. He is attracted - chant unto him the verses of love from Thy glorious Kingdom  AB12159

O Lord! I render Thee thanks that Thou hast made Thy distinguished friends discerning, and hast granted every needy one a share from the treasury of guidance. Thou hast bestowed boundless gifts and endless bounties. Thou hast freely given the Most Great Guidance and graciously granted the Greatest Gift. Therefore, make these friends noble in Thy Kingdom and cause them to be kind and loving toward one another   AB06735

Continually do I remember them, and beg for those blessed souls especial Confirmations. At all times I have entreated toward the Kingdom of Abha, wishing for each infinite Protection and Grace - so that each one of them may become like a shining star in the horizon of Reality, like a sharp-edged sword they may divide the wrong from the right, becoming the ensign of guidance and the Flag of the Supreme Concourse.  AB08465

O Thou Kind Lord! Accept this pure and holy girl in Thy new Kingdom. Make her beloved by all and glorify her in their sight. Intoxicate her with the overflowing cup of Thy Love. Confer upon her tumultuous joy and irresistible attraction and grant her an eloquent tongue and suffer her to become an embodiment of wisdom and divine understanding so that she may arise to diffuse the Fragrances of the Paradise of Abha.  AB10283

This servant, with utmost humility and contrition, makes his appeal at the threshold of Divine Oneness, beseeching that this sapling of hopes of His Holiness the Martyr be granted spiritual freshness and grace through the outpourings of the clouds of divine knowledge, that it may at every moment put forth flowers and blossoms and diffuse the sweet fragrance of the knowledge of God, making the world redolent with musk  AB12524

O Lord! Accept from him this deed of his, whereby he sought naught save to attain unto Thy good pleasure and to gain Thy acceptance, to arrive at Thy presence and to enter through Thy spacious gate which Thou hast opened before the faces of all who dwell in Thy earth and heaven. Then aid him, through Thy bounty and Thy gift, to stand firm in Thy Cause, to remain steadfast in Thy love, and to be immovable in Thy Word.  AB08498

"I make this supplication to the All-Bountiful Lord, and I implore Him with utmost humility and fervor, that He may cause these blessed souls to become well-pleasing to His holy will and enable them to attain whatsoever brings spiritual joy and divine gladness. May He make each one a brilliant star in the horizon of existence, and in this Most Glorious Paradise make each a fruitful tree, bestowing blossoms and fruits."  AB03010

O kind Lord, verily this assemblage is longing for Thee and loving Thy beauty. Verily, these friends are set aglow with the fire of Thy love and are joyful because of Thy presence. They have turned to Thy kingdom, seeking naught but Thy good pleasure, desiring naught but to pursue Thy pathway, and seeking naught save Thy good will. Not a day passes but they are occupied with Thy commemoration and are ever ready to serve Thee.  ABU0228

Send down Thy blessings, O my God, upon those who have attained the blessing of recognizing Thee in Thy days, who have turned unto Thee and have drunk the choice sealed wine of revelation from the hands of Thy bounty. O Lord! Illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge and their faces with the radiance of Thy countenance. Then ordain for them through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of the hereafter and of this world.   BH09070

O my God! Grant wings to this bird of the garden of divine knowledge, and bestow Thy favor and nearness upon this moth of the candle of Thy love. Guide this wanderer in the desert of love to the privacy of Thy grace, and lead this one who thirsteth in the wilderness of separation to the spiritual ocean of reunion. Make this ancient servant an intimate at the feast of Thy favors, and enrich this poor and lowly one with true wealth.  AB10108

Verily, I beseech God to illumine thy sight by witnessing the light of hopes and cause thee to speak His praise among the maid-servants, and to make thee steadfast in this path, on which feet have slipped through the power of tests. And I beg of Him to enable thee to confirm thy parents and make thee a servant in His great vineyard, and cause the consolation of thine eye, thy noble child, to enter the garden of His exalted Kingdom.  AB02614

Grant refuge and shelter under the shadow of Your grace to those who dwell in Your court and are enraptured by Your countenance, and bestow dwelling and abode in the cave of Your mercy to those wandering in mountain and desert for Your sake. Grant remedy to the helpless and bestow means and resources to the destitute. Give joy and gladness to the broken-hearted and grant unfailing warmth and praiseworthy condition to the dispirited.  AB01463

O Lord! Protect them from self and desire, and watch over them with the eye of Thy care at all times. Make them firm in guidance, illuminate their faces with perpetually radiant lights from Thy most glorious Kingdom, grant them knowledge from Thee, strengthen them with mighty power, make them a great sign, fill their cups to overflowing with the choice wine of bestowal, and ordain for them every good thing in Thy most exalted dominion.  AB01888


O Lord! These two leaves have grown from the Tree of Thy mercy and have been stirred by a fragrant breeze wafting from the valley of Thy knowledge, and have been drawn to Thy Kingdom by Thy sweet savors. O Lord! Dilate their breasts through beholding the manifestation of the signs of Thy greatness and the unfurling of the banners of Thy power, and gladden their eyes through their attainment unto the cave of Thy protection and safekeeping.  AB10504

May He make His friends detached from more and less, and cause them to be free from stranger and kin. May He make them entirely captivated by that musk-laden tress and enamored of that luminous countenance. In every moment may He grant a confirmation and in every instant bestow a healing balm, so that every wounded one may find rest and every frozen one become aflame, every silent one become articulate and every lifeless one spring forth.  AB03811

O my kind friend, grant that dear one of mine, that spiritual youth and divine soul, assistance each morning and bestow success each evening. Make his morning joyous and his night brighter than the shining moon. Illumine his eyes and make his breast the envy of rose garden and meadow. Adorn the rosebush of his heart with the design of the roses of inner meanings and confirm his triumphant spirit through the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.   AB02227

O Lord! Assist Thy servants in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and enable them to manifest such virtues as will diffuse the fragrances of holiness throughout all regions, and establish them in the execution of Thy teachings and the following of Thy counsels and the implementation of Thy advices which have spread and been proclaimed throughout all horizons. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Mighty, the Bestower.  AB11351

With the utmost humility I supplicate before the Lord of the Kingdom to fill thy heart with joy through divine gifts - so that thy cup may become overflowing with the wine of heaven by Guidance, the Cloud of the Lordly Bounty pour upon thee the vernal shower, the glances of the eye of mercifulness encircle thee from all directions and that thou mayst become ignited like unto the glowing lamp amidst the congregations of the believers of God  AB10210

Glorified art Thou, O Lord my God, Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word through which all things were enraptured, and by the surging waves of the ocean of Thy utterance, O Lord of all mankind and Sovereign of both this world and the next, to ordain through Thy Most Exalted Pen for Thy loved ones that which befitteth the heaven of Thy generosity, the sun of Thy bounty, and the sea of Thy giving.   BH00828

I supplicated the Holy Threshold, the Circuit of the Supreme Concourse, to baptize thee with the water of knowledge and the fire of the love of God and to make thee a perfect and faithful servant in His Great Vineyard, so that thou mayest water the trees of the love of God in the Paradise of ABHA; and to make thee a sign of meekness and humbleness among the maid-servants of God and a promulgator of His Cause in those vast and extensive regions.  AB09626

O my God! Increase these servants in love for Thy Beauty, illumine their hearts' vision with the light of Thy bounty, make their words penetrate the breasts of humanity, assist them with hosts from Thy Supreme Concourse, strengthen them with mighty power, establish them in the earth through Thy paramount power over all things, and make them standards of guidance waving in the winds of the supreme gift upon the highest summits of glory and elevation.  AB00250

Day and night this longing One is supplicating toward the Kingdom of the Luminary of Regions, begging Him that the friends may attain the Most Great Bounty, that they may become the cause of Spreading the Love of God, in the East and the West; train the souls of humanity and make this nether world the court of the gifts of His Highness the Almighty; this mound of Earth become illumined and the Face of the entire world become as the Heavenly Paradise.  AB01793

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having enabled Thy handmaiden to turn to Thee and place her trust in Thee. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy generosity to ordain for me and my daughter the good of this world and the next. O my Lord! Thou seest Thy handmaiden turning to Thee and holding fast to the cord of Thy grace. I beseech Thee not to disappoint her from the ocean of Thy generosity and the luminary of Thy favor.   BH07915

This is a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens and a leaf from among the leaves of the Tree of Thy mercy, who hath sprouted forth from the Lote-Tree of Thy oneness. I beseech Thee, by Thy Most Exalted Word which Thou hast made the sign of Thy oneness, to cause her to grow with a goodly growth, and enable her to be nourished from the breast of Thy lordship, and rear her in the cradle of the mercy of Thy oneness, and nurture her in the fortress of Thy mercy  AB09675

"Aid him in all conditions, O Thou my kind Lord, and loosen his tongue in Thy remembrance and praise in assemblages extolling Thy sanctity and unity. Strengthen his loins in your service, and clothe him with the robe of honor by Thy mercy, and crown his head with the diadem of servitude at Thy holy and exalted Threshold. Ordain for him such good that he may revel among the hosts of the well-favored and that his face may shine with a resplendent light"  AB05686

Therefore, O my God, cause to flow upon them in the abode of joy and the gathering-place of light and the right side of the Mount from the hand of the Cup-bearer of Manifestation, a cup tempered at the Camphor Fountain. Grant them eternal life in the Kingdom of mysteries and the Center of lights throughout the succession of ages and centuries. O Lord! Make their endeavors appreciated, their difficulties eased, their portion abundant, and their banner victorious.  AB00718

O my God, my refuge in my distress, my shelter in my anguish, my succor in my grief and pain! These are servants whom the veil of desire has not prevented from beholding the light shining upon all regions, nor have the doubts of the misguided prevented them from turning to the Center of Glory...My Lord! Make them dawning-places of light and verses recited at morn and eventide, that they may guide others unto Thee and speak Thy praise and remain firm in Thy covenant  AB01778

"Lord! Make smooth his path, make him a guide to Your Kingdom, give him to drink from the spring of Tasnim and the cup of Salsabil, and ordain for him abundant grace and beautiful triumph, that he may spread the traces of Your mercy throughout the dusty earth, disseminate the proofs of Your oneness among people of understanding, revive hearts with blessed water descending from heaven, and expand breasts through the chanting of Your verses to the melody of the dove."  AB00715

O Lord my God! Thou art He Who hath attracted the hearts of Thy servants and handmaidens through the wondrous melodies and strains of Thy songs, and then left them in the wilderness of separation through what was ordained by the Pen of Thy decree. Thou hast made them drink from the fountain of Thy love and made them to be among those who are kept far from the paradise of Thy presence and are forbidden from entering the sanctuary of Thy nearness and meeting with Thee.   BH08247

O my God! Thou seest these servants whose hearts have been sanctified from the stains of doubt, whose spirits have been purified from the taint of evil deeds, whose inner beings have been made good through virtuous acts, and whose faces have been illumined by the light of steadfastness that dispels all darkness. O Lord! Make them radiant lights in all directions, brilliant traces in the East and the West and all regions, and signs of truth in all kingdoms, climes and areas.   AB07090

O God! O Lord of realities and meanings! Look upon that divine gathering and heavenly company with the glances of Thy protecting eye, and preserve them with the hosts of Thy protection and shelter, and guard them with the guardianship of Thy protection and care, and assist them to attain harmony, and enable them to remain firm in unity, and shower upon them Thy blessings, and ordain for them services. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB10662

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy loved ones and Thy friends. Ordain for them what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have hastened with their hearts to Thy horizon, soared in Thy atmosphere, and have sacrificed their spirits in Thy path. O Lord! Withhold them not from the outpourings of Thy days, then send down upon them from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy bounty that which will draw them nigh unto Thee and aid them in that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.   BH01659

This is Thy servant who hath heard Thy call, and been drawn by Thy verses, and been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love, and become occupied with Thy remembrance...O Lord! Having guided him to the sweet spring of Thy mercy and given him to drink from the cups of Thy love, send upon him at all times the breezes of the Spirit from the direction of Thy divine oneness, aid him with Thy confirmations, assist him in every matter, and make him steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy remembrance.   BH09391

O my God, my God! These are servants whose hearts have been attracted to the Center of Beauty and whose souls have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love, O Lord of Glory and Majesty. Their hearts yearn for Thy most glorious Kingdom, and their eyes are cheered by beholding Thy most great signs. O Lord, make them among the hosts of the Supreme Concourse and the angels of Thy sanctuary, circling round Thy throne in the highest heaven and raising their voices in Thy praise before all people.  AB12229

My God, my God! This is a servant whom Thou hast taught diverse arts and sciences by which he became renowned among all people, until he became the most learned of the horizons and his fame spread throughout the realm of Iraq. Thou hast cast upon him the word of piety and made him independent of all else. Make him a star of guidance and a lamp that burns and illumines within the glass of righteousness. Cause him to speak Thy praise and expand his breast through attraction to Thy radiant countenance.   AB00231

O Lord! Make the friends in Qazvin the manifestations of the highest heaven and make them signs of the evident Light. Grant them confirmation and success in all degrees, and make them victorious and triumphant in all things. In every breath, waft to their nostrils the sweet fragrances of the Most Glorious Paradise, and in every moment send a dewdrop from the ocean of Thy favors. O Lord! Make these holy souls honored in Thy Kingdom and make their nostrils perfumed with the holy fragrances of Thy sanctity.  AB12073

O my God, my God! These servants of Thine are fragrant flowers in the gardens of Thy love, towering trees in the woodlands of Thy knowledge, and fishes swimming in the pools of Thy bounty. O Lord! Make these blossoms fresh through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy grace, and these flowers resplendent through the warmth of the Sun of Thy mercy, that the chalices of their spirits may overflow with gratitude and praise unto Thee, and their faces may shine with radiant lights from the dawning-place of Thy oneness.  AB12520

O Thou peerless Lord! Nurture these righteous souls within the shelter of Thy bounty and free these lovers from attachment to all except Thyself. At every turn refresh them from the dew-filled rainclouds of Thy bounty and with each breath waft unto them the fragrances of musk, that their hearts may grow in spirit and their souls in love, and that like unto a raging fire, they may blaze with Thine ardour. Verily, Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful. And Thou art the All-Seeing, the All-Merciful, the Bestower of all things.  AB09716

O Thou Self-Sufficing One! Grant these birds of the meadow flight, attune these nightingales of the rose-garden to sing melodies, and make them confidants of the melody of Thy Most Glorious Kingdom. Cast ecstasy and joy into the hearts, and infuse attraction and rapture in the souls and spirits, that each one may begin rejoicing with harp and drum and reed-pipe, and may praise Thy attributes until the temple of the world is set in motion and conveys, with exultation and tumult, the divine melody to the Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB00408

O Thou Who art free from all want! Bestow Thy favors upon Thy servants and handmaidens, and grant the wishes of all, freely and abundantly. Enable them to soar to the heights of love, and make them intimate companions of the birds of the garden of Thy bounties. Grant them fresh strength and bestow upon them a more pleasing state. Overlook their faults and confer glory and blessing upon them in this world and the next. Grant them rest and tranquility, adorn them with Thy counsels and exhortations, and deliver them from trials.  AB05384

O Lord! Aid them to remain firm, grant them success in becoming steadfast, make their feet firm upon the path, make them leaders of the tribes, distinguish them through Thy grace and bounty, and encompass them with the glances of the eyes of Thy mercy amidst Thy creation, that they may call out Thy Name, exalt Thy Word, speak forth Thy praise, spread Thy signs, guide people to the straight path and the right way, hasten to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the early hours of dawn, and supplicate Thee with hearts throbbing with remembrance.  AB00749

O Lord! I implore Thee to remove the veils from insight and vision, to deliver souls from deception and pride, and to save those plunging in depths of darkness. O Lord! All are Thy servants and dwellers in Thy lands...I beseech Thee by Thy mercy that preceded all things to grant them a share of the lights of guidance, guide them to the path of right conduct, make them signs of Thy love throughout the lands, gather them beneath the shadow of the banner of the Covenant, and take them not to task for their heedlessness of Thy remembrance   AB00926

O peerless Lord! Make these passionate and enraptured souls successful through Thine infinite mercy, that they may become recipients of human perfections and manifestations of divine favors. Let them become fresh flowers in the garden of guidance and trees of utmost delicacy in the paradise of truth. O Lord! Make them successful in Thy service and independent of both stranger and kin. Send down, at every moment, the dewdrops of Thy grace, that the garden of hearts may become verdant and flourishing, and the flowers of divine bounty may bloom.  AB09911

O Lord! These souls are enamored of Thy countenance and lost in Thy path and in love with Thy nature and disposition. They are intoxicated with Thy cup and birds upon Thy roof. They are the tame birds of providence and the enchanted nightingales of the roses of truth. They are the thirsty ones at the fountain of mercy and the wanderers in the realm of grace. O Forgiver! Pardon the sins of Thy servants and grant refuge to the helpless ones...Grant strength to the weak and bestow healing upon the sick, make the poor honored and give fire to the cold.  AB01786

O Lord! Sanctify the hearts of those who circle round me from whatsoever is unworthy of Thy sanctification and glorification. Then make their hearts horizons for the lights of Thy knowledge and dawning-places for the manifestations of the Sun of Thy loving-kindness... Even as Thou hast this day transformed the earth of Thy prison wherein Thou hast permitted joy and gladness for the people of Thy unity and the repositories of Thy oneness, do Thou transform the hearts of Thy servants that there may appear from them that which Thou lovest and approvest.   BH01387

This wanderer doth ever supplicate with utmost lowliness at the Threshold of the Lord God, seeking His favors for the friends, that each may become a majestic tree in the Abha Paradise, casting shade and yielding heavenly blessings. O Thou kind Lord! Make these trees the ornament of the Abha Paradise, and nurture them through Thy celestial bounty. Make them verdant and flourishing, and shower them with dewdrops. Clothe them in silken garments, and crown them with blossoms of sublime beauty. Grant them goodly fruit and bestow upon them sweet fragrance.  AB10976

O Lord! This is a fresh and verdant branch, watered by the droplets of Thy cloud of mercy. His is a portion from the overflowing Kawthar of Thy oneness, esteemed among Thy loved ones, a branch grown from the tree of Thy lordship, cultured among Thy creation, sagacious among Thy servants. Lord! Assist him in all conditions and circumstances, make his hopes easy of fulfillment, shower upon him the rain of confirmation every morn and eve. Make him a mighty lion in the thickets of triumph and success, and a copious rain in the gardens of knowledge and achievement.   AB02572

O my God! Thou knowest that this servant is enkindled with the fire of Thy love, wandering in the wilderness of longing for Thee, attracted by the wondrous lights of Thy beauty, and speaking in remembrance of Thee. Therefore, cause him to ascend on wings of holiness to the kingdom of Thy verses, aid him with the confirmations of the unseen realm of Thy oneness, give him to drink from the cup of immortality offered by the hands of Thy sanctity, and bring him into the presence of the brilliant rays shining from Thy beauty. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH10521

O Lord! These are Thy chosen servants, broken-winged yet joyous in spirit, submissive before the threshold, humble at the door, speaking Thy praise, drawn to Thy most glorious Kingdom. Therefore ordain for them every good thing in the kingdom of existence, distinguish them with Thy special gift among those who bow down in worship, enable them to attain the station of witnessing, illuminate their eyes through beholding the signs within themselves and in the horizons, assist them to serve Thee among the people of radiance and to worship Thee with the people of unity   AB03543

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me in the prison of 'Akka and for having sent down unto me that which hath attracted the realities of all things. I beseech Thee, O my God, by the standards of Thy guidance and the banners of Thy utterance, and by the hearts which have been set ablaze with the fire of separation from Thee in Thy days, and by the tears of the lovers throughout all regions, and by the appearance of Thy Cause on the Day of the Covenant, to ordain for me from Thy Most Glorious Pen the good of the world to come and of this world.  BH10058

O thou who art turned to the Kingdom of the Lord, the Forgiving! With prayers and supplications and with submissive songs of the Texts of God, I plead to Him to accept thee in His Kingdom; to clothe thee with the mantle of sanctity; to gloriously cover thee with the veil of abstinence; to illumine thy brow with the light of singleness; to console thine eyes with the seeing of the Texts of the Kingdom in the human form; and to make thee utter the mentioning of Him, rejoicing through His bounty, heralding His Kingdom with a bright face, whose light will illumine all sides.  AB10310

O Lord! Make them signs of guidance and cause them to hear the glorification and magnification from the Supreme Concourse. Strengthen them with hosts they cannot see and expand their breasts through the flow of the spirit in their limbs and members. O Lord! These are the sweet herbs of Thy most exalted Paradise, the flowers of Thy highest Garden, and the leaves of Thy luminous Garden. Send down upon them abundant rain until they become fresh, verdant, and flourishing through the outpouring of the cloud of Thy all-encompassing mercy that showers abundantly upon all things.  AB00297

I have lifted up my hands and beseeched in tearful prayer and trust on their behalf, imploring the Kingdom of Abha from the depths of My heart, saying: O God! Give shelter to these poor ones in the shade of the Tree beyond which there is no passing. Give refuge to these lost ones in the vastness of remoteness from Thee so that they might enter the shelter of Thy grace and loving providence. Cause these who are sore athirst in the wilderness of poverty to approach the shores of Thy Ocean of Oneness and allow these seekers of the Abha Kingdom to attain the habitation of Divine Unity.  AB00905

My God, my God! These are servants who serve Thy lofty and exalted Threshold, and turn toward the plane of Thy gift which extends to the far horizons and distant regions. They desire naught save the shining of the lights of contentment and the radiating of the brilliance of faithfulness. O Lord! Grant them success in their hopes, facilitate for them their aspirations, transform for them every difficulty into ease, and aid them to show forth kindness and mercy among the people. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Forgiving, and verily Thou art the Lord, the Compassionate, the Merciful.   AB03493

O my God, my God! These are Thy weak servants, and Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty over whatsoever Thou willest. O Lord! Have mercy upon their impotence, their weakness, their lowliness and their brokenness. Hear their supplications, their prayers and their cries in the depths of night and at dawn. Expand their breasts, strengthen their backs, make their affairs easy, and perfect their joy through the appearance of Thy manifest signs, the waving of Thy conquering standards, the diffusion of Thy lights, the spreading of Thy mysteries, and the revelation of Thy traces among Thy creation.   AB02593

Oh Thou the Desire of them that yearn after Thee and the Object of such as are devoted to Thee and the Light of all who are in heaven and on earth, lowly and submissive unto the door of Thy divinity, I supplicate unto the kingdom of Thy unity and the realm of Thy oneness and implore Thine eternal godhead to look upon this Thy servant with the glance of Thy mercy. Help him, moreover, with the manifestations of the signs of Thine assistance and power and enrapture him with the revelations of the evidences of Thy bounty and purify his countenance at all times in the kingdom of Thy Revelation and Thy creation.  AB07102

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having adorned my head with the crown of Thy favor amidst the people of Thy Kingdom, and for having made my son a servant of Thine in Thy prison. I beseech Thee, O Lord, by Thy power that hath encompassed all things, to enable him under all conditions to serve Thee, O Lord of all names. Then cause him to be so immersed in the ocean of Thy love that he may desire naught but what Thou hast desired, and may gaze toward the horizon of Thy good-pleasure in such wise that nothing that hath been created in the world may hinder him from remembering Thee, O Fashioner of earth and heaven.  BH04077

My God, my God! Thou art the One Who seeth my condition, Who heareth my call, Who art the Physician for my ailment and the Medicine for my healing. Praise be unto Thee for what Thou hast bestowed, conferred, graciously given, granted, made to drink, and caused to quaff from the Spring of Tasnim, the flowing waters, the Kawthar, and the Salsabil, and hast guided the seekers to the Straight Path and the manifest Light, and hast made firm their steps in the Ancient Covenant. O my Lord! These are Thy loved ones, Thy chosen ones, Thy elect, Thy friends, the best of Thy creation, and the most sincere among those who love Thee.  AB00118

Glory be unto Thee, O Thou by Whose Name the gates of heaven were opened! I beseech Thee by the sovereignty of Names to assist Thy chosen ones to make mention of Thee and glorify Thee and that which beseemeth Thy days. Then protect them from the evil of Thine enemies who cast Thy Book behind their backs and turned away from Thy Beauty and disputed Thy proof and Thy testimony. Then ordain for them, O my God and God of all things visible and invisible, that which Thou hast ordained for those who offered up their spirits and their bodies in Thy path. Then manifest what Thou hast destined for them through Thy bounty and favors.   BH01582

O Lord! Thanks be unto Thee for having illumined their eyes, inspired their hearts, caused their ears to hear, and cast the word of guidance upon the hearts of the righteous. They have turned unto Thee with dilated breasts, attracted hearts, spirits immersed in the oceans of Thy mercy, and souls made joyous through the signs of Thy oneness. O Lord! Make firm their footsteps upon this path, strengthen their hearts through the mysteries of Thy words, aid them with hosts they cannot see to diffuse Thy fragrances, guard them from tests, protect them from stupor, and make for them a straight path extended to the Kingdom of Heaven.  AB00137

O Mighty Helper of the weak ones, Succourer of the poor, Haven of the free, and Refuge of the righteous! With a heart palpitating and wholly turned toward the Kingdom of Mysteries, I supplicate Thee, beseeching Thee night and day to waft the holy fragrances to those regions wherein traces have been spread abroad and lights have shone forth, that the surroundings may be perfumed by the fragrance of the garment of Joseph of Mysteries, and that there may be generated in all hearts attraction to Thy Beauty, yearning in Thy remembrance, and enkindlement with the fire of Thy love, and then supplication and imploration in the depths of night and at dawn.  AB08480

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and the manifestations of Thy sovereignty to assist the people of unity to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, whereby Thou didst separate between the monotheists and the polytheists, and guided those who turned unto Thee to Thy straight path, and taught them what would preserve them from that which harmeth them outwardly and inwardly. Then I beseech Thee, O Goal of the world and Object of worship of the nations, to enable them to do what Thou lovest and approvest, that perchance sorrows may be changed to joy, abasement to supreme glory, and weakness to the power which Thou hast mentioned in Thy mighty Book.   BH01549

O God of the world and Goal of the nations! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the gate of Thy most exalted Paradise was opened to all who are in the kingdom of creation, and through which the Call was raised between earth and heaven, to assist Thy chosen ones to celebrate Thy praise and glorification, and inspire them with that which Thou hast willed through Thy knowledge. O Lord! Deprive them not of the ocean of Thy good-pleasure, nor keep them distant from the sanctuaries of Thy nearness. O Lord! Regard them not according to what they possess, but behold the heaven of Thy bounty and riches, and the helplessness of Thy creation and the poverty of Thy servants.   BH00867

O faithful God! These loved ones and chosen ones are the hosts of life and the armies of salvation. They are spiritual cohorts and waves of the ocean of the All-Merciful. They are the verses of the Holy Book and the signs of the Kingdom of Glory. O Lord! Protect and shelter them, and bestow Thy grace and bounty upon them. Look not upon their transgressions; nourish them with Thy favor. Take not account of their shortcomings and forgive their sins. Give them refuge and deliver them from the pit, and raise them to the zenith of the moon. Illumine their faces and set their souls ablaze with the fire of Thy love, that the manifestation and appearance of all may become as radiant as day.  AB01931

O God, O Self-Sufficient One, O Generous One, O Merciful One, O King, O Sovereign! All are Thy servants, and through Thy Word they have been brought from nothingness into being. They acknowledge their poverty before Thy wealth, their ignorance before Thy knowledge, their weakness before Thy power, and their impotence before Thy sovereignty. O Generous One! Deprive us not of the showers from the heaven of Thy mercy, and withhold us not from the waves of the ocean of Thy grace. These saplings of existence have been planted by the hand of Thy providence. Now is the time for growth and development, awaiting the April showers of Thy bounty and the springtime of Thy generosity - now and forever.   BH01334

O my Lord! These are Your chosen ones whom You have selected through the manifestation of Your love and for whom You have approved the outpouring of Your light, and whom You have immersed in the seas of Your presence, and given to drink from the pure water from the hand of the Cup-Bearer of the Dawning-Place of Your Manifestation. O my Lord! Preserve them from the contingencies of doubts and the events of the people of ambiguities, and make them clear signs and unfurled banners and brilliant lights in all directions and overflowing fountains and verdant gardens until through them the fragrances of Your holiness spread throughout all regions and every quarter becomes illumined by the light of dawn.  AB02240

O God, my God! These are servants attracted in Thy days by the fragrances of Thy holiness, enkindled with the flame burning in Thy holy tree, responding to Thy voice, uttering Thy praise, awakened by Thy breeze, stirred by Thy sweet savors, beholding Thy signs, understanding Thy Revelation and assured of Thy loving-kindness. Their eyes, O Lord, are fixed upon Thy kingdom of effulgent glory and their faces turned toward Thy dominion on high, their hearts beating with the love of Thy radiant and glorious beauty, their souls consumed with the flame of Thy love, O Lord of this world and the world hereafter, their lives seething with the ardor of their longing for Thee, and their tears poured forth for Thy sake.  AB02326

O God! O Thou Who revivest hearts through the breezes of Thy grace and expandeth breasts through the dawning of the lights of Thy bounty! I bow my face to the dust in humility, submissiveness and lowliness at the gate of Thy oneness, hoping for the outpourings of Thy mercy for Thy loved ones and longing for the manifestations of Thy bounty for Thy friends. Look then, O my God, upon them with the glances of the eyes of the All-Merciful, then breathe into them the spirit of life by which they may soar to the highest zenith and most exalted summit - the place of sacrifice - in all circumstances, conditions and phases, until they become signs of guidance among all peoples and brilliant stars from the Supreme Horizon.  AB01487

O Lord! These souls yearn for Thy presence and are enamored with that musk-laden tress. At every moment they raise a cry, send forth sighs and lamentations, and implore Thy grace and bounty. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind, the Merciful, the Compassionate, and Thou art the Dispenser of infinite bounties. O Generous Lord! Make these souls firm in Thy Covenant, steadfast in Thy Testament, attracted to the fragrances of holiness, mindful of the verses of unity. Make them the recipients of the glances of the eye of Thy mercy and drawn to the beauty of Thy light. Grant them fresh confirmations at every moment, and at every breath waft the fragrance of the All-Merciful to their nostrils. Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, and Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the All-Knowing.  AB08339

O Lord! Thou knowest that with all my heart I love Thy loved ones, and with all my soul I am drawn to the love of Thy chosen ones. I desire for them what Thou hast desired, and I love for them what Thou hast loved. I beseech Thee in the depths of my inner mysteries and in the dark of night to confirm them in every good thing, to grant them success in every deed that will cause their faces to shine in Thy Kingdom, their mention to be exalted in the heaven of Thy dominion, their breath to ascend to the presence of Thy mercy, their stars to gleam, their lights to shine forth, their breezes to waft, their springs to flow, their call to be raised, their traces to spread, their secrets to be diffused, their banners to be lifted high, and their fragrances to be scattered abroad.   AB00157

Make me attracted to the remembrance of Thy loved ones, enkindled with the flame of love for Thy chosen ones, with breast expanded in praise of Thy dear ones, and with eyes gladdened by beholding the faces of Thy servants. Strengthen their loins through Thy power, reinforce their backs through Thy might. O Lord! Cause the springs of inner meanings to flow from their hearts, unveil to their minds the mysteries of Thy words in the Seven Oft-repeated Verses, and guide them to Him Who guides to Thee in the Most Merciful Presence. O Lord! Illumine their eyes with the light of recognition, brighten their consciences with bounty and favor, cause them to speak with proof and evidence, inspire them with words of grace and kindness. Make them guides to Thy creation, trustees of Thy utterance, and protectors of Thy sanctuary.   AB00346

My God, my God! These are servants in whose breasts and inner beings the fire of Thy love is ablaze, and the breezes of Thy holiness pass over them morning and evening, perfuming their nostrils until their hearts are stirred by that life-giving fragrance that revives the souls of the successful and prosperous ones. Lord! Spiritual sensibilities and divine attractions have been awakened in them until they have made all their remembrances and prayers into a single prayer, and their state in Thy service eternal. Lord! Illumine their faces with a brilliant light, adorn their hearts with a radiant brightness, expand their breasts with the signs of Thy oneness, raise upon their hills the banners of Thy uniqueness, enlighten their inner vision, purify their inmost thoughts, and make their faces sincere for Thy gracious countenance.  AB02375

O God, my God! These are Thy feeble servants; they are Thy loyal bondsmen and Thy handmaidens, who have bowed themselves down before Thine exalted Utterance and humbled themselves at Thy Threshold of light, and borne witness to Thy oneness through which the Sun hath been made to shine in midday splendour. They have listened to the summons Thou didst raise from out Thy hidden Realm, and with hearts quivering with love and rapture, they have responded to Thy call. O Lord, shower upon them all the outpourings of Thy mercy, rain down upon them all the waters of Thy grace. Make them to grow as beauteous plants in the garden of heaven, and from the full and brimming clouds of Thy bestowals and out of the deep pools of Thine abounding grace make Thou this garden to flower and keep it ever green and lustrous, ever fresh and shimmering and fair.   AB00128

O my God, my God! Take the hands of Thy loved ones who are encompassed by tribulations due to their connection to Thee and their arising to serve Thee, to mention Thee and to praise Thee. O Lord! Withhold them not from the ocean of Thy bounty, nor from the effulgent rays of the Sun of Thy generosity. O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which Thou hast transformed darkness into light, tyranny into justice, and oppression into equity, to send down from the heaven of Thy bestowal a blessing upon Thy chosen ones and loved ones. O Lord! Thou seest their weakness before the waves of the ocean of Thy power and might, and their poverty before the manifestations of the lights of the Sun of Thy Revelation and riches. Ordain for them that which befitteth Thy generosity and grace. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Exalted, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01304

Make them pure and spotless from every defilement, and free them from all that is unseemly. Make their garments as fragrant as the shirt of Joseph, and their dispositions as perfumed with musk and ambergris as the morning breeze. Endow them with merciful attributes and adorn them with spiritual characteristics, that they may become signs of Divine Unity and clear evidences of the effulgence of the light of the Peerless Lord. Make them the cause of the glory of Thy Cause and the means of exalting their own station, that their hardships may be transformed into ease, and their poverty into the riches of eternal glory. May they receive everlasting bounties and become the manifestations of sanctity and the dawning-places of detachment, that they may recount tales of the realm of light and spirituality, and that all doors may be opened before their faces from every direction.  AB07003

"O Lord! Grant light to the righteous ones and make the leaves to be signs of the Kingdom of mysteries. Make them spiritual, make them luminous, make them heavenly, make them divine, and grant them eternal life and everlasting existence. Make them radiant lamps and divine verses. Make them waves of the sea of sanctification and hosts of the Abha Kingdom. Make them birds of the garden of inner meanings and fish of the everlasting sea. Preserve them from every affliction and protect and shield them from all trials. Make them walk the path of Thy good-pleasure and possess them in the clime of faithfulness. With every breath inspire them with a new spirit and with every moment quicken them with the breath of the Merciful. Grant them progress in all degrees and guide them in all things."  AB02441

O Lord! These friends are Thy loved ones, and this gathering consists of Thy bewildered lovers. They have no refuge save Thy shelter, and seek no haven but Thy court. Therefore assist them and grant them Thy grace and victory. Guide them and direct them to that which is Thy good-pleasure, and make them firm and steadfast in Thy Cause. We are helpless ones, we are wanderers, we are powerless ones, we are dejected ones, we are withered ones. Grant us life, bestow upon us spirit, open a door, show us a way out, give us stability, grant us remedy and healing. Place a balm upon the wound and make the poison sweet. Transform darkness into light and hardship into comfort. We have none but Thee, we know none but Thee, we seek none but Thee, we speak of none but Thy Name, we tread no path but the desert of Thy love. Show us mercy, grant us grace, bestow guidance. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   AB00545

O Lord! These are honored servants who bow before Thy Word and are humble, who are patient under Thy trials and show fortitude, who stand firm in Thy Cause and are steadfast, who call out Thy Name and teach, who spread abroad Thy sweet savors and propagate them. O Lord! Aid them with praiseworthy hosts and armies that scatter the beasts, teach them Thy verses, spread through them Thy clear proofs, exalt through them Thy Word, declare through them Thy wisdom, and establish them in hearts through Thy proof. Make them the banners of Thy guidance among Thy creation, the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty for those among Thy creatures who thirst, the rivers of Thy Kawthar of favors for the people of Thy kingdom. Make them the branches of the Tree of Life, the fruits of the Tree of the Divine Purpose, the flowers of a splendid garden, and the fish in a noble pool. Clothe them in the robes of guidance and cause them to speak Thy praise in the Most Exalted Paradise.  AB11042

O my God, my Beloved, my Purpose, my Desire! Thou seest me communing with Thee by day and night, beseeching Thee with heart and tongue, and imploring Thy heavenly Kingdom with a spirit drawn to Thy divine Kingdom. Assist Thou those who have hearkened to the call and responded to the summons, who have been attracted to Thy most exalted Kingdom and been set ablaze by the fire kindled in the Tree of Sinai, who have turned their faces to Thee amidst all peoples, who have recited the verses of guidance among the concourse of creation, who have spoken forth in praise, raised high the standard of piety, and hastened to the field of martyrdom with hearts throbbing with love and devotion, and who have established proofs and testimonies among Thy creatures for the vindication of Thy Cause with such power as to cause the mighty ones to tremble. O Lord! Make these souls to be lamps of the night and keys to the gates of heaven, standards of the Most Great Name, and signs of the Book made manifest in the scriptures of old and the tablets of latter days, that they may place their trust in Thee, hasten unto Thee, and long for martyrdom before Thee.   AB00294

I will supplicate unto Thee, O my God, and I will implore Thee, prostrate and contrite before Thy most exalted Kingdom, the Dominion of Thy most sublime Invisibility, Thy loftiest Summit, and Thy remotest Goal, that Thou mayest shower all Thy blessings, salutations and bounties upon those among Thy servants who have remained firm in Thy Covenant, who have aided Thy Word and diffused Thy verses. O Lord! Lord! They are the poor at the gate of Thy oneness, the lowly in the court of Thy divinity and the precincts of Thy lordship. Clothe them with the robe of ancient glory through Thy sovereignty, and adorn their brows with a magnificent crown of luminous, radiant and peerless pearls upon the throne of Thy supreme bounty in Thy other worlds, in the most exalted Kingdom. O Lord! Illumine their foreheads with manifest light, give them to drink from cups of pure water, cause them to enter the garden of delight, make them guides to Thy straight path, defenders of Thy impregnable fortress, archers against the vacillating apostates, and guardians of Thy mighty edifice, until their faces shine like stars in the east and west of Thy earth, and through them the fragrances of Thy holiness are wafted throughout its dawning-places and regions.   AB00069

I venture forth in the court of Thy glorious bounty, and with plaintive, tender cry I call upon Thee in the inner mysteries of Thy most holy Essence, and I submit that O my Splendor, my Remembrance and my Hope, pour forth upon Thy loved ones from the drops of Thy holy camphor and from the waves of Thy seas of intimacy, that perchance their hearts may find rest like unto Mount Encompassing before the manifestation of Thy Ancient Beauty, and their inner beings may be cooled like unto snow amidst the surging of the seas of the Sovereign Lord of Thy Uniqueness, that they might become radiant through the radiance of the beauty of the Presence of Thy Divinity, and shine forth through the effulgence of the countenance of the Sovereign Lord of Thy Grace, and become detached from all else through the appearance of the countenance of Thy attraction, and stand firm in the establishment of Thy Cause, and find delight in the remembrance of the letters of Thy sovereignty, and speak with Thy utterance before Thee, and journey toward the heaven of infinitude through Thy power, and find tranquility through Thy peace, and do Thou teach them a drop from the drops of knowledge hidden within the treasuries of Thy might, and show them a wave from the waves of that beloved state which lies concealed in the inner mysteries of Thy clemency.  BH11732
