
O Lord! Purify her from her sins and forgive her through Thy mercy, O Thou Most Merciful of the merciful ones!  AB10332

O Lord! Honor him with the meeting, and seat him upon the throne of Thy greatest gift in the highest companionship  AB04242

O my Lord! Immerse him in the ocean of Thy great mercy and lead him to the fountains of Thy pardon, O Forgiver of sins!  AB12720

That is why, in the prayers of Baha'u'llah, the forgiveness and pardon of God are implored for those who have ascended to the next world.   AB00399

O Lord! Grant her shelter in Thy most glorious Kingdom beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree, and bestow upon her the gift of meeting Thee  AB12403

With an awakened, mindful and attracted heart one must seek forgiveness for the deceased. Assuredly pardon and forgiveness will encompass them.   AB01915

"Grieve not, for thy Lord is verily the Forgiving, the Merciful. Say: Let her not be sorrowful but hold fast to the cord of steadfastness."   BH01912

Yes, surely sincere prayer always has its effect, and it has a great influence in the other word. We are never cut off from those who are there.   ABU3450

O Lord! Forgive him and accept his repentance and pardon him and cause him to enter the gardens of Thy mercy and grant him the gift of meeting Thee.  AB05937

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Loving, to spread out for those who have ascended unto Thee the carpet of mercy and forgiveness.   BH11376

"O God! Verily, I prostrate my face upon the dust and supplicate to Thy celestial kingdom to forgive Thy maidservant who hath hearkened to Thy call..."  AB06550

O Lord! Glorify his station and grant him an exalted seat of truth, adorn his wings with feathers so that he may soar unto the limitless realms above...   AB00818

My God, my God! This is Thy servant who has turned to the Dayspring of Thy mercy...Verily, Thou art the All-Generous, the All-Merciful, the All-Bestowing.   AB07173

O my God, my God! Verily, Your maidservant of the All-Merciful and luminous leaf...Verily, You are the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Merciful, the Compassionate.   AB06001

O Lord, quench his thirst, cool his burning, heal his illness, and cause him to enter the verdant garden and grant him eternal life in the Paradise of Refuge.  AB04574

Lord! Have mercy on them and grant them an exalted station in Your ancient Kingdom, and bestow upon them great success, and encompass them with manifest bounty.  AB04235

O Lord! Honor the resting place of those who have arrived at the gate of Thy Oneness, grant them a blessed dwelling, admit them into the court of Thy holiness...  AB01027

O my Lord, the All-Forgiving, the Merciful! Verily Thy servant Muhammad Ibrahim longed for the Garden of Delights and yearned to meet Thee in the Great Paradise...   AB01185

O Lord! Forgive his sins, pardon his errors, overlook his shortcomings, deal with him through grace and bounty. Grant that yearning one entry to the divine pavilion   AB06606

O God! O Forgiver of errors and Pardoner of sins and wrongdoings! You forgive whomsoever You wish through Your all-embracing mercy and Your resplendent compassion...   AB05994

Lord! Honor their abode, make sweet their resting-place, and admit them to the sanctuary of meeting and the gathering of divine manifestation in the world of eternity.  AB10804

I beseech Thee by the pearls hidden in the ocean of Thy knowledge and the mysteries treasured in the repositories of Thy protection to forgive him and those who visit him  BH01808

Thou seest me in this day shut up in my prison, and fallen into the hands of Thine adversaries, and beholdest my son (The Purest Branch) lying on the dust before Thy face.  BH07659

"O Lord! Admit this pure and sanctified leaf into the gardens of Thy oneness and the paradise of Thy sanctification. Verily Thou art the Forgiving, the Kind, the Merciful."   AB05723

O Lord! Immerse these ascending souls in the ocean of forgiveness. Forgive sins, bestow gifts, cause them to be immersed in the ocean of lights in the Kingdom of mysteries.   AB01669

O Merciful Lord! These two blessed souls were two bright candles who rendered service to the human world...May all-encompassing forgiveness be granted and everlasting life be realized.   AB11885

O Lord! Shelter him in the vicinity of Thy Most Great Forgiveness, cause him to enter into the heart of the Most Glorious Paradise, and make him abide forever in Thy Most Exalted Kingdom.  AB10803

O Lord! Nurture him with the drops from the cloud of Thy mercy, cause him to grow through the warmth of the Sun of Thy forgiveness and pardon, make him to wave in the breeze of Thy grace   AB05589

O peerless Lord! Nurture this dear friend and adorn his crown with the gift of bounty. Grant him the diadem of eternal sovereignty and place upon his head the crown of heavenly bestowal.   AB01705

O my God! O my God! Verily, Thy handmaiden of immaculate character, whose name is Ma'sumih...Aid her in the world of eternity and cause her to dwell in the precincts of Thy most great mercy.  AB08484

O Lord! Embrace him with forgiveness and pardon, O my Lord, the All-Merciful. Admit him into the Garden of Paradise, and cause his breast to expand through entering into the heart of Paradise.  AB10801

"O Forgiver! Forgive them both and shelter them in Thy protection. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind, and Thou art the Giver, the Everlasting, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful."  AB01116

"O my God, my God! Verily, a bird from among the birds of Thy holy gardens hath winged its flight to the pavilions of Thy mercy...Pour forth all patience and solace upon its dear and loving mother"  AB02393

My God! My God! Verily Your servant Nazim was one who suppressed anger and forgave sins and harm... make his arrival praiseworthy and his advent blessed, and immerse him in the seas of Your favors   AB06002

I beseech Thee, O Lord of all beings, to forgive Thy handmaiden who hath ascended unto Thee, and to cause her to associate with the countenances of Paradise on high in the white and crimson chambers   BH09403

Raise His station! Ordain all good for Him and ordain the glances of Thy favour for Him and immerse Him in the sea of mysteries in the Kingdom of Light, in that Assembly where Thy Beauty is manifest.   AB00980

I beseech God to immerse you in the seas of forgiveness, clothe you in the robes of beneficence, admit you to the garden of paradise, and grant you the blessing of His presence in the highest heavens.  AB11776

O handmaiden of God! We have come to visit thee and have approached thy resting place, and we beseech God to grant thee at all times what He hath ordained in the highest Paradise for the people of Baha.  BH11325

O Lord! These servants are Your friends and these handmaidens are Your cherished ones at Your threshold...Grant them entrance to Your Kingdom and bestow upon them a nest and dwelling in the eternal garden  AB03368

O God! O Thou Who hast shed the light of forgiveness upon human temples...Verily Thou art the Merciful, verily Thou art the Kind, verily Thou art the Forgiving, the Loving, the Compassionate, the All-Wise.  AB05011

O Lord! Pour upon him the cup of bestowal, overlook his mistakes, and grant him a seat of truth in Thy Most Glorious Kingdom. Illumine his eyes with the vision of Thy beauty in the gathering of the Meeting.  AB12505

O God! I beseech Thee, O Light of earth and heaven, and I implore Thee, O Creator of all beings... Verily Thou art the Generous, Thou art the Forgiving, the Merciful, Thou art the Mighty, the All-Pardoning.  AB00982

O Lord! Make noble their dwelling place, expand their abode, fulfill their desires, prepare for them their wishes, deprive them not of Thy favors, and let them not be bereft of the most wondrous attributes.   AB03311

O Lord! Khodadad has taken flight from this ruined nest to build his home and dwelling upon the free cypress in the realm of heaven. O Lord! Grant those two companion birds shelter beneath that fruitful tree.  AB09905

O Lord, Lord! With complete humility I stretch forth my hands in supplication toward the Kingdom of pardon and forgiveness...Verily Thou art the Forgiver, the Generous, the Pardoner, the Mighty, the Bestower.  AB05934

Aid him through Your grace and bounty, O Helper of the weak! Shelter him in the shadow of Your pardon, O Succorer of the poor! Comfort him in the expanses of Your court, O Companion of those who seek refuge!   AB12122

O God! O Remover of afflictions and Dispeller of calamities! I implore You as a captive implores an omnipotent, transcendent King, and I beseech You as a sinner beseeches the Lord of forgiveness and pardon...  AB00847

O Forgiving and Merciful Lord! My dear sister Margaret has hastened from this world to Your world, and grown weary of the mortal realm to soar to the divine realm...O Lord! Grant pardon and bestow forgiveness.  AB05245

O my God, O my God! From dawn until dusk Thou seest me imploring at the gate of Thy mercy...make him pure and sanctified in the garden of immortality, brilliant and radiant from the horizon of grace and bounty  AB04237

O my God! O my God! This is Thy servant, associated with the Beloved Leader of the Messengers at Thy holy threshold among all worlds... assist him with Thy confirmations and revive his spirit with Thy breaths   AB02044

O Lord! Give these wandering souls shelter and protection in Your care, and bestow eternal life upon these lifeless spirits so that they may soar in the heights of forgiveness and establish an everlasting foundation.  AB06116

O Lord! Encompass him with the glances of the eye of Thy mercy and assign unto him an exalted station in the kingdom of Thy oneness. Make him attain the cup of pardon and forgiveness in the paradise of Thy divinity.   AB04170

O Lord! Let the outpouring of meeting with Thee be continuous upon him, and grant him the greatest gift and supreme bounty. Verily, Thou art the Giving, the Generous, the Pardoning, the Forgiving, the All-Bestowing.   AB00849

O Lord! Give this mother and child refuge and shelter in the midst of the Most Glorious Paradise, and after their ascension from this lower world, grant them dwelling and abode in the vicinity of Your Greatest Mercy.   AB05108

O Lord! Intoxicate him with the pure wine of reunion and the nectar of bestowal in the world of eternity. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate, the Forgiving, the Pardoning, the Ever-Relenting.  AB00688

We beseech God, the Lord of the Throne and earth, and the Lord of the Hereafter and of the former times, to adorn thee with the ornament of His pardon and forgiveness and to send down upon thee mercy from His presence.   BH03671

"O Gracious Lord! Make the brilliant lamp of Jinab-i-Sadiq a lofty palm tree in the garden of the Kingdom, and make him a radiant candle in the hidden world's assembly. Forgive sins, grant shelter, bestow eternal life."  AB04109

My God, my God! Thou art the Succourer and Thou art the Helper...Make him to graze in the meadows of Thy forgiveness, [to wade] in the waters of Thy pardon, and to delight in meeting Thee in the paradise of Thy oneness.  AB11725

I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Places of Thy Cause and the Sources of Thy Revelation and the Recipients of Thy knowledge to make mention of my father who hath ascended unto Thee in the Crimson Book from Thy Most Exalted Pen   BH05658

O Kind God! The youth Sohrab Kamyab did not take any share from the rose garden of life and found no portion from the garden of fulfillment. In the prime of youth he left this transient world and hastened to Your threshold   AB05530

I supplicate with utmost humility at the threshold of the Self-Sufficient Lord that He may grant His servant an eternal dwelling in His Kingdom and bestow a shelter and refuge under the shade of the Tree of the All-Merciful.  AB06970

O my God, my Hope, my Protection, my Desire, my Refuge and my Succor! You see me humbled, broken, with my face in the dust, hoping and yearning for Your pardon and forgiveness for him who has sought the gate of Your mercy...   AB04241

Regarding the takbir in the Prayer for the Dead that you wrote about - although in language takbir means saying "Allahu Akbar", in Baha'i usage it means the greeting, and the greeting of the people of Baha is "Allah-u-Abha".   AB03364

To increase the spirit and fragrance of that loving father in the Garden of Paradise, ye must give to charitable causes, bestow upon the poor, show kindness to orphans, assist the helpless, and aid and care for the destitute.  AB04005

O matchless Lord! Guide the poor and helpless Dawlat to Thy court. Forgive her sins and pardon her faults, accept her in Thy pavilion, and make her survivors the recipients of Thy gracious glance. Thou art the Forgiver, the Kind.   AB06741

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to forgive him who has ascended unto Him, to cause him to enter the most exalted Paradise, and to make him a companion of those near ones and the sincere ones. Verily He is the Forgiving, the Merciful  BH01649

O Thou Forgiving Lord! Although some souls have spent the days of their lives in ignorance, and became estranged and contumacious, yet, with one wave from the ocean of Thy forgiveness, all those encompassed by sin will be set free.   AB07304

We beseech God, exalted be He, to send down upon her a blessing from the heaven of His grace and a mercy from the clouds of His generosity, and to cause her to enter the most exalted Paradise. Verily, He is the Hearer, the Answerer.   BH03573

O Kind Lord, grant these two birds of the meadow of certitude a nest in the Divine Lote Tree, intoxicate them with the dawn breezes of the Dove of Oneness, console those left behind, and grant patience and forbearance in separation.   AB06047

My Lord and my hope! Thou seest me with my face in the dust, prostrate before Thy countenance...that Thou forgive the parents of this servant who is attracted by the fragrances of Thy holiness and enkindled with the fire of Thy love   AB00604

These pure, content and well-pleased souls were confident in Thy favors, relied upon Thy attributes, and trusted in Thy aid... O Merciful Lord! They were hopeful - let them not be disappointed. They were yearning - make them content.   AB02503

Lord, Lord! Settle him in Your dwelling, admit him to Your holy court, shade him with the tree of Your companionship, perfect Your favor upon him, complete Your mercy for him, grant him nearness to You, and honor him with meeting You.   AB00853

O Lord! Send down upon him from the clouds of Thy loving-kindness the rains of Thy mercy, and from the heaven of Thy generosity that which will draw him near unto Thee in all conditions. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.  BH07317

O my God, my Lord, my Support, and the Ultimate Goal of my hopes! This servant was stirred by the fragrances of Thy holiness... Admit him into the lofty chambers of the highest heaven. Verily, Thou art the Most Merciful, the Compassionate.   AB03084

A prayer seeking forgiveness was offered at the Threshold of Oneness for Aqa Mirza Habibullah who was drowned in the ocean of mercy, and I hope that God's grace and bounty in that other world will encompass that truthful servant of the Lord.  AB01308

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God and the God of all names...I beseech Thee by the resplendent Light and by Thy firm, penetrating Command to forgive me and my parents...to fulfill my needs and the needs of Thy servants who have turned unto Thee"   BH01983

O Kind Lord! Give milk from the breast of forgiveness to Your servant Ardishir Pur Bahram, and be forgiving and kind to Your bondsman Mihraban Pur Bahram, and make Your dear handmaiden Firuz daughter of Surush a messenger of the higher realm.  AB03993

A prayer for forgiveness was offered for the one who has ascended to God, Aqa Masihullah, and likewise another prayer for forgiveness was offered for the two who have attained the Supreme Companion, Jinab-i-Haji Ghulamrida and Mulla Aqa Baba.   AB01385

O Lord! Thy grief-stricken servant has beseeched this lowly one to worship at Thy divine threshold and seek pardon and forgiveness, that Thou mayest immerse the father, mother and sister of this pure-hearted one in the ocean of Thy forgiveness.  AB08049

We beseech God to ordain for him the reward of those who attained the presence of the Countenance and were blessed to hearken to the call of their Lord...and the reward of those who circumambulated the Throne and drank the Kawthar of immortality  BH04810

I stretch forth unto Thee the hands of supplication and entreaty, and call upon Thee with utmost humility and contrition, seeking forgiveness for Thy pure and holy handmaiden...My Lord! Embrace this tranquil soul with Thy pardon and forgiveness.  AB02858

O Lord! Verily Thy pure handmaiden, who is related to Thy servant Muhammad-Qabli-'Ali who hath ascended to the kingdom of Thy mercy...O Lord! Ordain for her every good in the next world and send down upon her the outpourings of mercy from heaven  AB03312

Lord! Raise high his stations and prepare for him an abode in the highest ranks and make him an intimate companion in the Kingdom of Beauty and an associate in the Heaven of Glory and one immersed in the sea of light in the Kingdom of Mysteries   AB02158

Send down Thy blessings, Thy prayers, and Thy salutations upon the mother who bore him, and the breasts that suckled him, and the arms that nurtured him, and pour forth upon her patience and solace through Thy greatest mercy and Thy mighty gift.  AB00559

O Lord! Honor his abode, accept him at Thy luminous threshold, establish him in the midst of the supreme Paradise, and shelter him in the vicinity of Thy greatest mercy, that he may warble upon the branches of Paradise with the doves of holiness   AB02028

My God, my God! A bird from among the birds of the gardens of mystical knowledge has soared to Thy sacred gardens...O Lord! Illumine his countenance with the light of forgiveness and pardon, and cause him to enter Thy Kingdom, O my Merciful Lord.  AB07169

O Lord! Khosrow Parsi and Gushtasb were unfulfilled in this world - make them successful in that world. Make them joyful, grant them a good end. Fulfill the desires of their hearts and souls. Forgive their sins, bestow and shower favors upon them.  AB09657

O Lord! A cherished handmaiden has hastened to Thy threshold and departed this world in hope. O God, guide all to the rose-garden and bring kind Bahram into the heavenly realm, and make Mihrban-Bahram drink the sweet wine of pardon and forgiveness.   AB05234

O Lord, Cherisher of servants! Guide this loving father to the highest Paradise, and forgive his sins and errors, so that in the other world, with a radiant countenance, he may be gathered among the noble ones and be the object of Thy gracious regard.  AB10491

O Lord! Through Thy grace and bounty, confirm his reliance upon Thee and his belief in Thy pardon and forgiveness... elevate his stations and establish him in lofty gardens. Admit him to the garden of meeting and seat him upon the throne of eternity.   AB02325

"My God, my God! Verily Your servant Ishaq has fallen into eclipse and departed this first life, bequeathing to his family grief, sorrow, regret and anguish. Their eyes overflow with tears and the fire of mourning blazes within their hearts and ribs."  AB03079

O my God! O my God! These two pure souls have turned to the Kingdom of Thy mercy...Make their final destination the beginning of Thy favors, admit them to the pavilion of Thy holiness, cause them to abide eternally in the gatherings of Thy companionship  AB12374

O Lord! Grant rest to his spirit through Thy mercy and give him glad tidings of Thy pardon and forgiveness, cause him to alight in a blessed dwelling at Thy threshold, immerse him in the seas of Thy mercy and submerge him in the depths of Thy forgiveness   AB02486

O Forgiver! The wise servant of the court, Gushtasp, turned his face from this dark world and hastened to the realm above... O Lord! Teach him supplication and prayer, forgive his sins, kindle the lamp of bounty, and burn away the veil of vain imaginings.  AB06461

O Forgiving Lord! The bodies of these grateful birds have become imprisoned in the hidden grave while their souls have taken flight to the flourishing realm... Keep them steadfast and established forever. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind One.   AB02939

O God, my Mighty Shelter and Most Exalted Refuge! You see me shedding tears, heaving sighs, and overwhelmed with grief at the calamities that have befallen me and the successive afflictions that have come upon me - namely the passing of Your sincere servants...  AB02023

I have beseeched the Court of Oneness that He may immerse thy pure-born parents in the ocean of His forgiveness and pardon, admit them into the eternal Paradise--the Garden of Meeting and the Garden of Immortality--and make them the recipients of His infinite favors  AB09924

O God, O Bestower of bounty! Forgive Khudadad and make Firuzih victorious. Make these two pure souls radiant, and in the realm of the celestial spheres make them joyous and glad. O Lord! They have found release from the world of dust and have taken refuge in Thee.  AB09335

O Lord! Honor his resting place, fulfill his hopes, reach him with pardon and forgiveness, and grant him grace and beneficence. O Lord! Forgive the errors, increase the gifts, hold us not to account for sins, remove sorrows, conceal faults, O Knower of the unseen!  AB01215

O Lord! Honor her resting place, comfort her spirit, make excellent her return unto Thee, make her happy in her arrival at the gate of Thy oneness and her entrance to the springs of the fountain of Thy mercy, and shelter her in the proximity of Thy greatest mercy   AB06564

I supplicate before Thee with heart, spirit and tongue, beseeching mercy, kindness, pardon and forgiveness for Thy Hand of the Cause, Thy servant Adib, the beloved and noble one...O Lord, permit him to enter the kingdom of lights and abide in the sea of mysteries.  AB01757

O God, O Bestower of Grace! Forgive Khodadad and make Firuzih victorious. Make these two pure souls radiant and render them joyous and delighted in the realm of the celestial spheres. O Lord! They have been freed from the world of dust and have taken refuge in Thee.  AB09335

O Lord of great forgiveness and supreme bounty! Thou forgivest whomsoever Thou willest, pardonest whomsoever Thou willest, and transformest evil deeds into good ones for whomsoever Thou willest...I implore Thee to forgive Thy servant who was overcome by Thy mysteries  AB04953

O Lord, immerse him in the ocean of forgiveness and purify him from the stain of disobedience and protect him from the fires and admit him into the midst of Paradise and make him abide eternally in the Garden of Good-Pleasure and grant him the blessing of meeting You  AB05026

O Lord! Honor her resting place, fulfill her hopes, illumine her countenance, and kindle her lamp in the glass of Your Kingdom. Open before her the doors of Your bounty, admit her into the precincts of Your mercy, grant her eternal life in the paradise of Your Glory   AB02639

And I beseech for your mother, who has returned to God, that He may honor her resting place, admit her to a noble dwelling, immortalize her in the Garden of Delights, and gladden her heart through beholding the lights of the Divine Presence in the scenes of grandeur.   AB05437

I will presently pray fervently to the Abha Kingdom, begging ample forgiveness for thy bereaved mother, that her noble soul may be purged of the defilement of transgressions, and, through the radiance of His supernal light, shine resplendent in the limitless Kingdom.   AB00588

O pure Lord! This servant of Your threshold was seeking You with heart and soul, and was striding in the path of Your love... Grant solace to his kind father and free his loving uncles from grief and sorrow. Console the hearts and gladden the spirits with forgiveness.  AB04516

My Lord! Fulfill her hopes, facilitate her desires, grant her happiness, open before her face the doors of meeting in the Most Glorious Kingdom, bestow upon her nearness and proximity, effusion of lights, immersion in the sea of reunion, and attainment of ultimate hopes.  AB11646

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to forgive him and his wife who heard and responded and ascended unto God, the Lord of all worlds. We beseech God to send down upon her a mercy from His presence and to cause her to enter the highest Paradise as a bounty from Him   BH02451

O Lord! O Lord! Submerge him in the ocean of Thy glory. O Lord! O Lord! Usher him into Thy delectable garden. O Lord! O Lord! Usher him into Thy lofty paradise, and cause him to be present in Thy meeting of transfiguration. O Lord! Submerge him in the ocean of Thy lights.   ABU1818

O my God! This is Your servant and the son of Your servant who was set aflame with the fire of Your love and was attracted by Your holy fragrances...until his spirit ascended to the vicinity of Your mercy and soared to the Kingdom of immortality through Your grace and gift  AB04240

O my God! This is Your servant who claims kinship with Your servant who was honored to attain Your holy presence... O Lord! Send down upon his grave layers of light from the Kingdom of Revelation, grant repose to his spirit in the gardens of the Kingdom of might and joy...   AB01749

I beseech God to illumine that blessed earth with brilliant lights from the Abha Kingdom and to assist those who visit that radiant dust with divine confirmation, that they may pray God to forgive them and pardon their sins and immerse them forever in the ocean of His mercy  AB01998

Your letters are filled with mention of the friends of God and requests for forgiveness for those who have ascended. In the Holy Shrine, with utmost humility, I beseech assistance and bounty for the friends and seek pardon and forgiveness for those who have ascended to God.  AB04257

O Lord! Bamas Bahram yearned to see You, hastened to the upper realm and took refuge at the threshold so that he might enter the court. O Forgiver! Treat him as befits Your Lordship, come to his aid, forgive him, grant him the vision of You, and make him abide in Your realm.  AB05659

O God! The sincere are immersed in the ocean of Thy mercy, the near ones take refuge in the shelter of Thy clemency, the tongues of the enraptured sing Thy praises amidst Thy people, the assured hold fast to Thy forgiveness, and the confident trust in Thy grace and Thy favor.  AB03893

O Lord! Your servant who drank the wine of Your knowledge and whose breast was dilated through the light of certitude in Your Cause has ascended to You...Immerse him in the ocean of forgiveness and cause him to enter under the shade of the blessed tree in the highest paradise  AB05024

Immerse him in the seas of Thy favors, admit him to Thy garden of oneness and paradise of mercy, and grant him eternal life in the gathering of divine encounter, the center of lights and the kingdom of mysteries, after his ascension from this world to the realm of permanence.   AB02685

O Lord! Shelter Nushiravan in the refuge of Thy mercy, and grant Isfandiyar Mihraban a dwelling place in the Garden of Paradise and the heavenly Paradise. Forgive and pardon Firuz Javanmard, and grant absolution to Siyyid Husayn Mirza Ja'far in the presence of Thy great mercy.  AB02787

O my kind Lord! This ancient servant and old attendant was, from early childhood, nourished at the breast of Thy love...Make him successful in the vicinity of Thy gifts and the paradise of Thy presence, grant him Thy greatest bounty and make him a manifestation of endless favors.  AB00997

O God, my God! Verily, Thy kindly maidservant Sakinih hath hastened unto Thee and crossed over to the threshold of Thy mercifulness, hopeful of Thy forgiveness and Thy pardon, seeking Thy grace and Thy bounty, supplicating the kingdom of mercy and entreating the dominion of glory.  AB08000

O God! Wash away their sins, guide them from the well to the apex of the moon, admit them into the rose garden of bounty, and shelter them in the meadow of pardon and forgiveness. Make them chief among the free, and cause them to enter the assemblage of them that are nigh unto God.   AB04543

This prayer was written seeking forgiveness for the ascended leaf, the sister of that person...grant her the blessing of meeting Thee and give her to drink from the cup of Thy faithfulness and shelter her near the House of Thy oneness and settle her in the gardens of reunion with Thee  AB02640

O my God! I beseech Thee to forgive and pardon Thy servant who spent his days remembering Thy days. Immerse him in the oceans of Thy mercy, shelter him in the protection of Thy mercy, and guide him to the paradise of Thy presence, just as Thou named him Hadi (Guide) among Thy servants.  AB07157

My God, my God! Thou hast created souls from the essences of existence who believed in Thee and in Thy signs... O Lord! Illumine his brow with the manifest light of Thy forgiveness, make his face radiant in Thy glorious Kingdom, clothe him in the robe of pardon through Thy mighty grace  AB05023

We behold him and have sent down each year what We sent down for him during his outward life. In this there is wisdom from Our presence. Thy Lord's knowledge encompasses all the worlds. My mercy preceded him and ascended with him. By My life! It hath encompassed him from all directions.  BH05057

O my Lord, the poor one hath verily hastened unto the Kingdom of Thy Wealth, the stranger unto his home within Thy precincts, he that is sore athirst to the heavenly river of Thy Bounty. Deprive him not, O Lord, from his share of the banquet of Thy Grace and from the favour of Thy Bounty  BH03109

Verily We make mention of thy son who hath ascended unto God and thy brother, as a token of grace from Us, and We are the All-Bountiful. We beseech God to forgive them both and to purify them and sanctify them and cause them to enter the Most Exalted Paradise, as a mercy from His presence  BH08502

Prayer for forgiveness for the maidservant Kudarz-i-Mihrban who has ascended to the mercy of God... grant refuge and shelter to that helpless wanderer... grant that yearning one entry to the pavilion, and make that lonely one the intimate companion of Thy near handmaidens at Thy threshold  AB09907

O my God! Thou seest Thy helpless servant who hath believed in Thy manifest light and was drawn to the highest heights and became renowned for Thy love among all people. He hath left this transient world and aimed for Thy exalted threshold, yearning for Thy presence in the lofty paradise.  AB04230

O Lord, Bestow upon him and upon his wife your grace and bounty from the World of Mystery and pour upon them everlasting existence, O Lord of Attainment, and clothe them both with the garment of forgiveness, O Lord of Mercy, Thou are the Forgiver, the Generous, the All-Powerful, the Kind.   AB05022

A prayer of utmost supplication was offered to the Kingdom of Beauty, and forgiveness and pardon from the Lord of Majesty was beseeched for that noble soul, and it was sent to Isfahan. You should certainly request and read the prayer, and recite it with the utmost humility and supplication.   AB12104

O God, my hope, and the goal of my desire. A fresh and radiant leaf, verdant from the sprinkling of the clouds of Thy mercy, hath turned yellow in the forest of this world, and is hopeful that Thou wilt make her green in the world of eternity and tender and flourishing in the all-highest Paradise.  AB05993

O Kind One! O Radiant and Resplendent Bestower! [Name] was wandering and bewildered in this world. Grant him order and arrangement in Thy world. He was without refuge or shelter - give him a dwelling and abode in the shelter of Thy Great Mercy...Thou art the Forgiver, the Illuminator, the Kind One.  AB09825

O Lord of Hosts, Educator of existence, and Creator of all created things! I implore at the threshold of Thy mercy, prostrate upon the dust, and at the spacious court of Thy oneness, that Thou mayest send the holy fragrances of Thy pardon and forgiveness to perfume the nostrils of Thy servant Husayn  AB12602

Every dawn I bow my head in prostration at the Infinite Threshold and seek the confirmations of the King of existence, and may each one, like a hundred-petaled rose, bestow a sweet fragrance upon that plot of earth. May that soil of the tomb be purified, may that region become a paradise of delight   AB04401

My God and Forgiver of my sins! I beseech Thee and implore Thee and cling to the hem of Thy forgiveness, and I supplicate to the Kingdom of Thy pardon and bounty that Thou wouldst encompass Thy servant who hath ascended unto Thee and arrived before Thee with the glances of Thine eyes of compassion...  AB06565

Bless Thou, O Lord my God, the Divine Lote-Tree and its leaves, and its boughs, and its branches, and its stems, and its offshoots, as long as Thy most excellent titles will endure and Thy most august attributes will last. Protect it, then, from the mischief of the aggressor and the hosts of tyranny.   BH02307

They have drunk the cup of death according to what Thou didst say - and Thy word is the truth: "Verily thou shalt die and they shall die." Thou hast ordained for them the protected station, blessed them with the hidden mystery, and caused them to return to Thee through Thy grace, O my Compassionate Lord!  AB01522

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy handmaidens awaiting the wonders of Thy bounty and Thy leaves clinging to the Tree of Thy Cause. I beseech Thee, O Mystery of existence, by Thy Name, the Mighty, the Loving, to assist us to be steadfast in Thy love and to ordain for us what befitteth the heaven of Thy bounty.  BH04877

I moreover beseech Thee, O Possessor of existence and Educator of the seen and unseen, to forgive him who hath ascended unto Thee and whom Thou hast raised to Thy most exalted horizon through Thy power, Thy might and Thy sovereignty, and to forgive his relatives in such wise as to draw them nigh unto Thee.  BH00522

O Forgiving and Kind One! Grant melody to that melody-less one, and bestow order and purpose to that disordered one in Your shelter. Grant heavenly treasure to that poor one, and bestow freedom of the higher realm to that captive one. Illumine him, make him radiant, grant him joy, bestow success upon him.   AB07065

O my Loving Lord, Who showers upon the reality of existence an eternal outpouring in the realm of being, Who has ordained for His loved ones the praiseworthy station in the arc of ascent! O Lord! Verily Your sincere servant named Muhammad has turned to You with a pure breast and a detached heart and spirit...  AB12150

O thou creator! This pure soul advanced toward Thy Kingdom and humbly lamented and supplicated before Thee. Heretofore he was a captive in this earthly world; but now he has intended to enter into the Kingdom of Eternity and turned unto the Spiritual World and had the hope to receive infinite favors from thee.  AB06673

O my Lord, my Hope, my Refuge and my Shelter! This is a branch from the branches of Thy tree of mercy... My Lord! Answer his prayer and respond to his plea and make his affairs easy and expand his breast and illumine his countenance and gladden his heart and bring joy to his spirit through Thy most great mercy.  AB00517

O Lord! O Forgiving One! Faridun Parshakun has hastened to the world of mystery, and Faridun Isfandiyar has taken flight to the unseen heights. Make these two servants free from want, and exalt them in the realm of heaven, and make them companions of pure souls. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind One.  AB10445

O Lord! O Forgiver! Muhammad Hushyar was agreeable and enkindled with the fire of love, and restless. He left this earthly center and hastened to the pure world, taking refuge at Your threshold. Grant him protection, bestow forgiveness upon him, and make him radiant and brilliant in the zenith of eternal glory.   AB05616

With every breath, and in a state of the utmost repentance, supplication, and impatient yearning, I implore the bestowal of all-encompassing bounty, and the manifestation of the gifts of the ancestors in their descendents. It is certain that this prayer will be received and answered at the threshold of Grandeur.  AB02119

My God, my God! This is a maidservant who has turned to the shelter of Thy mercy and directed herself to Thy holy threshold. I beseech Thee by Thy grace and generosity to honor her resting place and cause her to descend into the mansion of Thy forgiveness, the gardens of Thy pardon, and the paradise of Thy mercy.  AB05502

this is Thy servant whom Thou didst create by Thy will and sustain by Thy desire...And then he returned to his place in the dust, to a house where none would visit him again and no soul would accompany him and no companion would befriend him and no merciful one would show him mercy and no lamp would illuminate him  BH02780

O Lord! Verily, Thy servant Muhammad-'Ali beseecheth forgiveness for his father and sister who have answered the call and returned unto Thee with hearts assured of Thy grace and bounty. O Lord! Forgive them through Thy mercy which hath preceded all things, and admit them into the precincts of Thy most great mercy.  AB09136

O Forgiver! Make these servants radiant and cause them to be singers in the rose garden of the highest realm. Make them musicians in the heavenly feast, players in the arena of nearness and reunion, and ones who recline upon the eternal pillow of glory. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the Forgiver, the Kind One.  AB07219

O Lord, forgive her sins, remove her sorrows, ease her difficulties, make her drink from the cup of Your greatest favor, let her taste the sweetness of Your mighty forgiveness, and cause the most brilliant gifts to grow beneath her wing so that she may fly to the Kingdom of Your mercy through Your power and might.  AB11869

My God, my God! ... O Lord of the Most Beautiful Names! Make his end in this journey a beginning of favors, grant him relief, make him the essence of chastity, admit him into the kingdom of mysteries, adorn his face with the lights of forgiveness, grant him the blessing of meeting Thee in the Garden of Paradise...   AB03901

O Kind Lord! Make this Nushirvan sweet of soul, bestow upon him the sweet cup, and immerse him in the ocean of pardon and forgiveness. That pure soul has hastened to Thy realm and has been freed from the bonds of this world, and is a guest worthy of abundant bounty. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind One.  AB10493

Therefore, although we feel sad and disheartened, we must supplicate God to turn our hearts to the Kingdom and pray for these departed souls with faith in His infinite mercy so that, although they have been deprived of this earthly life, they may enjoy a new existence in the supreme mansions of the Heavenly Father.   ABU0342

This servant beseeches forgiveness from the Lord God for the eldest sister who has passed away, and at the time of prayer I will supplicate and implore, seeking the greatest gift and the attainment of supreme forgiveness, entry into the paradise of contentment, and the attainment of the gift of the Divine Presence.   AB00214

O Lord! Perfume her grave with the outpourings of Thy gift which Thou hast bestowed upon her. O Lord! She was the companion of Thy servant who submitted to Thy sovereignty, acknowledged Thy proof, was drawn to Thy beauty, and was illumined by Thy lights when the star of guidance dawned from Thy most exalted horizon.   AB00212

O Lord! One leaf from the Tree of Thy mercy has abandoned this ephemeral world and soared to Thy eternal garden. Like a dove she cooed and lamented until she became nestled in the branches of Thy oneness. O Forgiver, Thou art forgiving! O Creator, Thou art bountiful! O Noble One, Thou art the Bestower of endless favors!  AB09906

O Lord! Ordain for him every good in heaven and make his ascension the supreme martyrdom and means of attaining the Supreme Companion. O Lord! Grant and bestow upon that radiant youth entry into the Garden of Meeting and admission to Thy merciful Paradise. Pour forth patience upon his illustrious father and his relatives.  AB12203

O Lord! Admit Your dear maidservant Shirin Namir into the supreme paradise and grant her shelter and refuge in the realm of the highest heaven. Make her intoxicated from the overflowing chalice of pardon and forgiveness, and quench her thirst from the spring of eternal life. You are the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind One.  AB07307

We make mention in this station of him who hath ascended to the Supreme Companion, and We say: The glory be upon thee, O thou who hast attained to the knowledge of God, the Lord of the worlds...Blessed art thou and those who aided the Wronged One when He came with the truth through this Name whereby the veils were rent asunder  BH02269

I beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to cause her to enter the Most Glorious Paradise, to send down upon her mercy from His presence and grace from His own Self, and to forgive her through His bounty which hath encompassed existence and through His generosity which hath encompassed all who are in the heavens and the earth.  BH07988

My God, my God! With complete helplessness, supplication, imploring, humility, meekness and contrition, I commune with the Kingdom of Thy Oneness and stretch forth the hands of hope toward the horizon of Thy mercy, beseeching that Thou forgive and pardon the father of Thy servant who has held fast to Thy Covenant and Testament.  AB06004

O Lord, cause him to alight in the abode of truth, bring him to the wellspring of Thy bounty and favor, honor his resting place, and ordain for him every good in his final destination. Grant him a share of Thy presence in the gathering of divine manifestation, and admit him through a blessed entrance into the radiant presence.   AB03078

I beseech You by Your all-embracing mercy that encompasses the worlds of the unseen and the visible, and by Your compassion that preceded all created things before their existence, to forgive Your deceased servant...O Lord! Have mercy on the root for the sake of the branches, and forgive the father out of kindness to the children  AB04962

I beseech God to make thee the symbol of forgiveness, surround thee with mercy and bounty, make thy countenance bright, thy station exalted, and thy face illumined like the clear morn. Blessed is the one who delighteth his senses with the fragrance of the dust of thy luminous tomb. May the faithful visitors be perfumed therewith.   AB02620

O Lord! Honor his dwelling place, make prosperous his abode, cause him to enter Thy noble habitation in Thy mighty Kingdom, shelter him in the vicinity of Thy Great Mercy, grant him the joy of meeting Thee in Thy Most Glorious Kingdom, make him immortal in Thy Supreme Paradise, and admit him beneath the shadow of Thy Divine Lote Tree.   AB01527

Glory be unto Thee, O God of the seen and the unseen and Educator of all existence! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and the splendors of the Light of Thy proof and by the Light that hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy will in Thy days, that Thou forgive me and my parents and whosoever hath believed in Thee and Thy signs.   BH02247

O Kind Lord! In the village of Kushkak, a group of the friends and handmaidens of the Most Merciful have cast off their earthly garments and gained freedom from the prison of this mortal world, and have taken wing to the eternal garden, that like nightingales they may sing in the Abha Paradise upon the branches of pardon and forgiveness.  AB12509

I beseech Thee, O God of the kingdom of earth and heaven, by the Dawning-Places of Thy Revelation, the Manifestations of Thy inspiration, and the Recipients of Thy knowledge, to adorn her with the robe of forgiveness and to send down upon her from the ocean of Thy mercy that which will draw her nigh unto Thee in every world of Thy worlds.  BH03236

O peerless Lord! Forgive Khodadad the noble youth and grant him shelter and refuge in Your protection. Make Your dear handmaiden Nikakhtar a recipient of Your pardon and grace, and bestow eternal life through the soul-nurturing breeze of Your favors. Make Khodarahm Khodadad joyful in the world above and help him achieve his aim and purpose.  AB06674

O God, my God! Verily, Thy servant--seeking refuge at the door of Thy favor, calling to Thee at the threshold of Thy mercifulness, imploring Thy succor in the precincts of Thy pardon--hath returned unto Thee and reached Thee, hoping for Thy clemency and Thy forgiveness, his sole provision being his powerlessness and neediness in Thy presence.  AB03897

O God! O Thou Who givest life to souls, and quickeneth bodies, and sendeth the winds! I beseech Thee to give these two faithful servants, Muhammad-Husayn and Muhammad-Ibrahim, to drink from the cups of forgiveness and the goblets of eternal joy at the dawning of the morn of pardon and forbearance and forgiveness upon the people of prosperity.  AB12413

O Kind Lord! Mehtar Ardeshir seeks forgiveness for his father and boundless, infinite pardon, so that his father may rest in the shade of the tree of hope and be refreshed from the spring of forgiveness, be cleansed and sanctified from the defilements of the contingent world, and be adorned through the glorious bounty of pardon and forgiveness.  AB07373

Therefore I beseech Thee, O my God, to grant her from the good things of Thy provision and cause her to hear the melodies of Thy creation. Send down upon her that which will solace her eyes, calm her heart, gladden her soul and cause her tears to flow in longing for meeting Thee, in seeking Thy good-pleasure, and in joy at attaining Thy presence.  BH07722

O peerless Lord! This destitute one has fallen at Thy threshold, bewildered and distracted, enamored and devoted, seeking forgiveness for a loving mother. Thou art the one true Bestower and the Giver to all, whether friend or stranger. Grant forgiveness that it may cause the rain of mercy to descend and nourish the soul of that honored handmaiden.  AB09940

Verily this pure soul, this spiritual youth, has turned to the gate of Thy merciful compassion, hoping for Thy grace and forgiveness. O Lord! Honor the dwelling place of this guest and ordain for him reunion with his relatives in the world of visions, that they may find solace in beholding him in dreams and companionship with him in the next world.  AB12810

O Lord! Rescue him from the pit of deprivation and the desert of separation, admit him to the midst of paradise, make him abide eternally in the garden of contentment, and make him a sign of forgiveness so that his face may shine with the lights of grace and bounty and his brow may gleam like a brilliant star among the righteous in the highest heaven  AB03081

My Lord and my Hope! Verily, the sister of this one enkindled with the fire of Thy love was under the protection of Thy glorious and noble servant...I beseech Thee to forgive me and her, and to pardon in me and her every fault and misdeed arising from contingent reality and human limitations. Grant her to attain Thy presence in the realm of Thy cloud.   AB02752

O loving God! Grant these souls a place beneath the shadow of Thy favors and bestow upon them shelter in the cave of Thy mercy. Raise them from the furnace of mortality and bring them into the eternal rose garden. Obliterate the darkness of sins and deliver them from the darksome night, making them shining candles of the gathering in the world of light.   AB07306

O Lord! The servant of Your threshold, Mahmud, desires forgiveness for his father and mother, and in utmost shame and embarrassment hopes that his parents may be immersed in the ocean of mercy and be confirmed with the companion of divine gift. O Lord! 'Abdu'l-Baha also makes this supplication, so accept the need of two humble ones in the glorious Kingdom.  AB06094

O Lord! Leave not Thy servant alone, and grant him a companion. Bestow upon him the comfort of his eyes, for Thou art the Best of inheritors. Grant him a gift from Thy presence, for verily Thou art the Most Merciful, the Compassionate. Protect him from every assailant and injurer, from every deviant and knocker at the door, for Thou art the Great Protector.   AB03690

O Thou peerless Lord! Make Thou this bird of the Realms above that winged its flight unto the kingdom of Thy sanctity and hath sought refuge at the Threshold of Thy Divine Unity, an angel in the garden of forgiveness, and let it sing the tender melodies of Thy Oneness in the meadow of Truth, in the paradise of Thy Singleness, and in the rose-bush of Thy mercy.  AB11176

O Lord! Praise be to Thee for causing the sun of forgiveness to shine forth from the dayspring of Thy oneness upon the people of rebellion. And thanks be to Thee for causing the ocean of Thy pardon to surge through the winds of beneficence upon the people of forgetfulness, whereby they were immersed by Thy grace and forgiveness in that boundless, surging sea.   AB05935

I implore Thee by the tongue from which the springs of wisdom have gushed forth in the world of creation, and by the heart which Thou hast made the repository of Thy knowledge and Thy mysteries, and the treasury of Thy wisdom and Thy verses, to send down, at all times, upon him who hath ascended unto Thee the rain of Thy mercy and the showers of Thy providence.  BH08860

Therefore, O my God, waft over him from the Ridvan of Thine eternity the breezes of Thy essence and the winds of Thy oneness, that he may know the mysteries of Thy uniqueness in the temples of Thy detachment...Then raise him up, O my Beloved, from the graves of heedlessness and gather him among the company of the unitarians in the gardens of Thy exalted spirits  BH04771

We have desired to make mention of My handmaiden and My leaf with a remembrance whose fragrance shall never be cut off nor shall it be effaced, through the eternity of God's kingdom, the Lord of all worlds...We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to send down upon thee at all times mercy from His presence and light from His own Self and bounty from His side.  BH03419

O my Lord and my Hope! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy mercy to forgive Thy servant who hath ascended unto Thee, who hath humbled himself before the gate of Thy oneness, who is broken before the glory of Thy divinity. O Lord! Overshadow him with the clouds of forgiveness, immerse him in the ocean of pardon and bounty, and cleanse him from the stain of disobedience.  AB09038

Therefore, O my God, send down now upon my father in the most exalted horizon of Paradise that which will gladden his heart through Thy bounty, and upon those who dwell in my house that which will gladden their hearts through Thy grace, and upon those who are related to me that which will gladden their hearts through the sublimity of Thy loving-kindness and care.  BB00086

O faithful God of the free-spirited ones! These pure souls, praise be to Thee that they were freed from the world of dust, set their hearts upon the realm of the celestial spheres, and are present and active in service. Bestow upon them heavenly bounty and grant them spiritual radiance. Nurture these pearls through the outpouring of the vernal rain of Thy favors.  AB10902

O Lord! Verily Thy servant Musa hath left this worldly life and turned toward Thy Most Glorious Kingdom, submissive to Thy sovereignty, humble before Thy grandeur, seeking forgiveness for his sins, and beseeching relief from his sorrows. I beseech Thee by Thy ancient grace and Thy mighty pardon to honor his resting-place and make his end better than his beginning.  AB12559

O Forgiving and Kind One! O Just One! The handmaiden of Thy threshold, Malaki, has hastened to the realm of purity. Therefore, make her soul radiant and immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and grant her a portion from Thy grace and favor. Forgive her and bestow Thy loving-kindness upon her, and in the realm of mystery make her the companion of the angels.  AB09656

O my Lord, the Most Merciful! Verily, souls who are content with Thy decree and are well-pleasing in the Kingdom of Thy Oneness have spread the wings of prosperity and have ascended to the Kingdom of success. My Lord! Forgive them their sins and increase their gifts and cause them to enter the highest Paradise and make them abide eternally in the supreme Paradise.  AB01084

I implore Thee to forgive Thy two servants who have ascended to the other worlds and departed to the Kingdom of Heaven. I seek forgiveness for their sins and beg pardon for their transgressions. O Lord! Forgive their errors, bestow abundantly Thy gifts, and ordain for them blessings and the attainment of the supreme gift in the life to come after this earthly life.  AB12335

O matchless Lord! Mah Banu has winged her flight to Thy celestial realm, and Rustam and Suhrab were thirsting for Thy ocean, yearning for Thy path, and hastened toward Thee that they might drink from Thy stream. O Forgiver! Withhold not Thy bounty and cherish these helpless ones beneath Thy shelter. In the realm of mysteries, cause them to consort with the pure ones.  AB09034

O my Lord, my Hope and my Aspiration! I press my brow to the dust sanctified by the foreheads of those near to Thee and kissed by the lips of the sincere ones - the dust of Thy exalted Threshold, the gate of Thy resplendent Truth, and Thy radiant Garden. I beseech Thee to forgive Thy servant Javad, who was captivated by love and who walked the path of right guidance.  AB07761

O Lord! Grant Maandegar Hakim freedom from fear and anxiety and bestow peace in Your shelter. Make Rashid Ardeshir a lion in the highest paradise. Surush Mehrab is a restless thirsty one - quench his thirst from the heavenly spring. Khudadad Rustam grew weary of the oppression of this dustheap and took flight to Your court to find rest - grant him rest and adornment.   AB03651

O Lord! Honor her dwelling place and immerse her in the seas of Your mercy and cause her to dwell in the midst of the garden of eternity in the realm of lights, the center of mysteries...Shelter her in the proximity of Your greatest mercy, cause her to dwell in the gardens of Your supreme paradise, illumine her face with the light of contentment in the highest horizon  AB03272

Glory be to Thee, O Lord, my God! I confide in Thee from the innermost recesses of my heart and the depths of my soul at dawn-tide and in the night-season, and humbly and tearfully prostrate my face upon the dust at morn and even, seeking forgiveness and pardon for that thankful and kindly servant of Thine, who is utterly and wholly immersed in the ocean of Thy bounty.  AB04554

O God! A group of friends have hastened toward Thee and galloped from this world to Thy world. They walked Thy path, sought Thy good-pleasure, and spoke of Thy mystery. O Lord! Make Khusraw Rustam a companion of forgiveness, grant Makhmal Bahram repose in Thy shelter, and make Sarv Salamat a manifestation of pardon. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, and the Kind One.  AB09668

I beseech God to make you a brilliant lamp in the niche of the Supreme Concourse, a manifest dawn in the horizon of the Most Glorious Kingdom, and an established tree with extended branches shading all regions, perpetually bearing fruit, with verdant leaves and fresh flowers, watered by the abundant outpourings from the cloud of your Lord's mercy throughout all eternity   AB01438

Therefore, O God, send down upon the parents of him who standeth before Thee and writeth Thy verses by night and by day that which will satisfy them concerning their child on the Day of Resurrection in Thy presence, and comfort their eyes through what Thou hast caused to reach from what Thou didst create through them unto the source of Thy good-pleasure and Thy remembrance.  BB00208

O Ancient Bestower! These souls adopted the new Faith and spent their lives with perfect certitude and dignity, ever hopeful of Thy forgiveness and pardon. O Lord! Be forgiving to every hopeful one, and grant success to every faithful servant. Forgive and pardon and bestow favor, and grant them the blessing of witnessing and attaining Thy presence in the Kingdom of mysteries.   AB07067

O God, my God! Verily, thy servant hath been received at the threshold of Thy mercy as described in the Tablets of Thy revelation, and hath ascended unto the Kingdom of Thy sanctity. O Lord! Bestow upon him a goodly abode, forgive his sins, and pardon his shortcomings. Thou art, verily, the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Merciful, and Thou art the Most Generous, the Ancient of Days.   AB07448

O Lord! Lamentations have risen and hearts are aflame with fire, and tears flow like floods from eyes at her loss. Pour forth patience and solace upon her relatives from this burning, and forgive her and pardon her and admit her into Thy kingdom and grant her Thy presence and honor her dwelling with the vision of Thy beauty in the gathering of lights and the scene of mysteries  AB03608

This servant of Thine believed in the Word of Thy mercy and turned toward the Kingdom of Thy oneness and was attracted by the verses of Thy holiness and was set ablaze by the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy unity and heard Thy call and responded to Thy summons and bore every hardship and trial in Thy path. Then he ascended unto Thee and rose to the seat of truth in Thy Kingdom.   AB07166

O Lord! Bahlul was captive to Thy love in chains and fetters. Thou didst favor him with entrance at the gate of Thy mercy and arrival at the fountain of Thy lordship...O Lord! Give him to drink from a cup whose mixture is of camphor, admit him into the garden of happiness, make him immortal in the world of light, and grant him the blessing of meeting Thee in the eternal Paradise  AB03899

cause the layers of light from Your most glorious Kingdom and highest horizon to descend upon his grave, and admit him into Your paradise of good-pleasure and gardens of oneness. O Lord! Answer his petition through Your grace, bounty and favor. Immerse his father in the fountains of Your good-pleasure, honor him with Your presence, shower upon him Your mercy, kindness and favor.  AB02169

O God! O Forgiver of sins, the Pardoning, the All-Forgiving, the Benevolent, the Compassionate, the Merciful to His sincere servants! Verily Thou knowest that Thy steadfast loved ones have stood firm in Thy manifest religion...Give them to drink from the cup of faithfulness, gather them in the world of eternity, and grant them a lofty station of truth in the Most Glorious Kingdom  AB11843

O my God, my God! I commune with Thee in the hidden recesses of my heart and soul, and with my tongue, in the depths of night, beseeching and supplicating at the gate of Thy oneness, imploring Thee to immerse Thy servant who hath ascended unto Thee in the oceans of Thy mercy, to illumine him with the lights of Thy forgiveness, and to shower upon him from the clouds of Thy bounty.  AB00885

O kind Lord! Make this attracted leaf noble in Thy Kingdom, immerse her in the ocean of forgiveness, gather her in the company of renowned maidservants, and grant her a share of the eternal sovereignty. For in the days of her life she was accustomed to services and engaged in labors. In truth, she has great right of service, therefore make her the recipient of magnificent bounty.   AB03784

O God! O Thou Who dost ordain the ordained fate, Who dost make death available to every thankful and complaining one, Who dost draw souls unto the Kingdom of gladness and joy, Who dost cause the birds of souls to soar unto the horizon of light, addressing them: Return unto thy Lord, well-pleased and well-pleasing, sanctified, to enter the divine precincts with praiseworthy endeavor!  AB00884

O Lord! Her tranquil soul was a luminous flame, from whose heart radiated the lights of faith, who was intoxicated with the wine of certitude, whose eyes were solaced by witnessing the proof and evidence, whose consciousness was attracted by the spirit and sweet fragrance. O Lord! Cause her to alight in the dwelling-place of Thy mercy and admit her into the Paradise of Thy divine unity.  AB06496

O God! A group of friends have hastened toward Thee and rushed from this world to Thy world. They traversed Thy path, sought Thy good-pleasure, and spoke Thy mystery. O Lord! Make Khusraw Rustam intimate with Thy forgiveness, grant Makhmal Bahram repose beneath Thy protection, and make Sarv Salamat a manifestation of Thy forgiveness. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, and the Kind One.  AB09668

O Thou Who art my Forgiver and my Pardoner! I know not how I can intercede for anyone when I myself am in need of an intercessor through whom I may seek pardon at the gate of Thy forgiveness and take refuge in hope of Thy bounty...make Thy servant Vahid, who is immersed in Thy all-encompassing ocean, to take shelter in Thy mighty stronghold, seek protection in the shelter of Thy supreme mercy  AB12277

My Lord, my Lord! You see me with trembling limbs, shaking pillars, and quivering parts due to my grief from the calamities that have befallen the loved ones in these severe years and intense upheaval...Lord! Let him drink from the cup of Your generosity and give him to taste of the pure wine of Your pardon and forgiveness. Verily You are the Generous One, You are the Forgiving, the Merciful.  AB03548

Oh God, shelter him under the tabernacle of Thy majesty and the garden of Thy holiness and the meads of Thy good-pleasure, and supply him with the gift of Thy presence and cause him to abide within Thy precincts and pass round him the cups of Thy bounties and perpetuate unto him the bread of Thy favors and make him a light in the luminous Horizon and exalt his station in the loftiest heights.   AB01296

This is a handmaiden, assured in faith, believing and tranquil, who hath turned to Thee and drawn nigh unto Thee, and through Thy grace and bounty hath been protected from the torment of the hereafter...Through Thy loving-kindness make honorable her abode, refresh her spirit with the sweet fragrances of Thy holiness, immerse her in the oceans of Thy mercy, and make her a sign of Thy forgiveness.  AB10230

O God! Send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad through all that Thou hast brought into being, and send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad through all that Thou hast willed...and send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad through all that Thou hast ordained...and send blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad through all that Thou hast decreed...  BB00011

Verily, Thy servant Aqa Jan's time hath come for Thee to plunge him in the oceans of forgiveness, to deal with him through grace and beneficence, and to make him a sign of Thy pardon in the Garden of Good-Pleasure. May his dwelling place be where the two gushing springs flow forth, and his abode be in the two dark-green gardens. May he attain the supreme gift in the precincts of Thy greatest mercy.  AB09769

O Divine Providence! Exalt this beloved handmaid, the daughter of His Holiness Haydar, in Thy kingdom and enable her to associate closely and intimately with the birds of Thy meadow. Immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness and from the fountainhead of everlasting life bestow upon her an ample share. Rend asunder her veils, grant her a discerning eye and enable her to attain Thy greatest bestowals.  AB09281

O Thou forgiving God! Enable this hand-reared bird to find nest and shelter in the Divine Lote Tree (Sidratu'l-Muntaha) and allow this destitute one to find home and refuge within Thy sanctuary. Shelter this imploring and weeping one 'neath the shade of Thy unity. Bestow wealth upon this poor creature and, upon the loftiest summit establish this suppliant soul who hath turned unto Thy Kingdom of Glory.  AB08534

O God, my God! This servant of Thine nursed at the breast of Thy guidance, sought to abide beneath the shade of Thy providence, was diligent in Thy remembrance, found refuge within the precincts of Thy court, and was encompassed by Thy favors. He emigrated from this world to a habitation which is the manifestation of Thy mercifulness, and he returned unto Thee, seeking the shelter of Thy most great mercy.  AB06558

O Lord! O Thou Forgiver of sins, Bestower of gifts, and Dispeller of afflictions! Verily I beseech Thee to forgive the sins of such as have abandoned the physical garment and ascended to the spiritual world. O Lord! Purify them from trespasses, dispel their sorrows, change their darkness into light, cause them to enter the garden of happiness, cleanse them with the most pure water, and grant them to behold Thy splendours on the loftiest mount.  AB11936

O my God! I turn from praising Thee to asking Thy forgiveness, Thy pardon and Thy favour for the one who was related to Thee, who put his reliance in Thee, and who hastened unto Thee that haply he might attain Thy presence... O my Lord! O my Lord! Give him to drink from the cup of forgiveness; bestow upon him Thy kindness and favour; cause him to enter the Kingdom of Mercy, O Thou Lord of Grace and Bounty!  AB03848

O Lord! Grant him an exalted station in Thy most glorious Concourse, and a seat of truth in Thy most sublime Kingdom. Give him an abundant share of Thy pardon and Thy greatest forgiveness, that the cup of bestowal may overflow for him, the vessel of bounty may rain upon him, the clouds of faithfulness may pour down, and he may enter the gathering of reunion and become intoxicated with the wine of immortality.  AB11326

He was a captive of Your love and a guide to Your knowledge, one who walked the path of Your guidance and was immersed in the sea of Your grace, sincere in Your religion and steadfast on the straight path in Your way...O Lord! Embrace him with Your mercy that encompasses all created things, intoxicate him with the choice wine of Your gift with which You have given drink to the sincere ones in the highest Paradise  AB12092

O Quickener of nations! Your servant Rustam has been freed from the prison of this world and hastened to the heavenly court. He set forth toward Your path and yearned for Your countenance and turned toward You. O Bestower! Free that noble spouse from sin and grant her refuge at Your threshold. As You made her weary of this world, make her successful in that world and grant her lasting life in the Kingdom of mysteries.  AB04544

Prayer for forgiveness on behalf of His honor the refined and wise one, his eminence Andalib... Grant him an exalted station and heavenly gardens of nearness, that he may take refuge in the hem of Your forgiveness in Your presence and enter the paradise of meeting You and be immersed in the ocean of Your pardon and bounty. Send down solace and comfort upon his family and protect them through Your generosity and mercy.  AB03043

O my God! Thou seest me in these vast and distant lands, far from Thy Most Exalted Threshold, with a bleeding heart and tearful eyes and inflamed inner being...Honor her resting place and facilitate her desires and grant her wishes and cause her to enter the gathering of divine manifestation until she is immersed in the light of the One Who manifests and wanders in the lights of beauty and abides in the kingdom of glory.  AB00574

I intercede for Thy servant who believed in Thee and in Thy verses, who entered beneath the shadow of Thy banners, and who recognized Thy proofs and Thy clear signs. O Lord! Forgive him the sins that proceeded from him, pardon his misdeeds and transform them into good deeds. Clothe him in the robes of bounty, grant him the gift of attaining Thy presence, remove from him all veils, and cause him to enter the scene of beauty  AB08398

O my God, my God, my Goal, my Beloved, my Hope! I beseech Thee by the Law of Thy power and the Dispensation of Thy Prophets, and by Thy Hidden and Treasured Name which hath been concealed from all eyes since the beginning that had no beginning, to send down upon this handmaiden of Thine and upon Thy male and female servants at all times that which will draw us nigh unto Thee and enable us to stand firm in our love for Thee.  BH08174

O Lord! Honor her dwelling place that the holy maidens may celebrate her arrival in the Paradise of eternity, and the beauteous ones may welcome her entry into the Kingdom of Glory. Pour forth patience and solace upon her offspring and beloved ones, for whose grief, anguish, pain, separation, sorrow, distress and estrangement the eyes of the Concourse on High shed tears. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Merciful.  AB01226

And verily Thou, O my God, the waves of Thy forgiveness have surged and the winds of Thy grace and bounty have blown and the clouds of Thy generosity and favor have rained upon Thy loved ones whose consciences were pure and whose inner beings were goodly through Thy supreme bounty on this precious day... Lord! Lord! Shine upon him with the lights of the orb of Thy forgiveness and immerse him in the sea of Thy grace and bounty...   AB11816

O God, my God! Verily, Thy spiritual handmaiden, who hath believed in Thine incomparable Word and is ignited with the fire enkindled in Thy heavenly Tree, hath returned unto Thee with her soul at peace, submissive, and pleasing unto Thee. Lord! Visit her with Thy forgiveness and Thy pardon, clothe her with the raiment of Thy grace and Thy loving-kindness, and illumine her face with the light shining from the most exalted Paradise.   AB07163

O my God, my Refuge and my Shelter! I bow my face to the dust and raise my hands to heaven, calling upon You with a heart throbbing with Your remembrance, tears flowing from love for You, a spirit at rest through Your grace and bounty, and a soul thirsting for the wine of Your pardon and forgiveness...I beseech You to honor her resting place, accept her endeavors, and make her a sign of forgiveness and an object of pardon and bounty.  AB00927

My Lord, my hope, and the goal of my desire! Verily, thy servant--humble before Thy sovereignty, lowly before Thy majesty, believing in Thee and in Thy signs, detached from all save Thee, sincere in Thy religion, spreading Thy fragrances, comprehending the meanings of Thy words, assisted by Thy confirmation--arose with all his power to promulgate Thy verses and disseminate Thy mysteries through the power of Thy proof amongst Thy servants.  AB02822

O my God! O my God! Verily, Your noble servant, namesake of Isma'il, has passed from this worldly abode to the next world, bowing and prostrating before Your Most Exalted Threshold, seeking forgiveness for his sins, thirsting for the waters of Your mercy in the next life. Lord! Heal this ailing one and cool the burning of this lowly one from the spring of Tasnim in the Garden of Delight. Verily, You are the All-Forgiving, the Most Merciful.  AB01922

O Forgiver and Kind One! O Just One! O Equitable One! The handmaiden of Thy threshold, Malaki, has hastened to the realm of purity. Therefore, make her soul radiant and immerse her in the ocean of forgiveness, and grant her a portion from Thy grace and favor. Forgive her and bestow Thy kindness upon her, and make her the intimate companion of the angels in the realm of mystery. Thou art the Bestower, the Giver, the Forgiver, and the Kind One.  AB09656

O my God, my God! This is Your believing handmaiden who believed in Your beauty, who gazed toward Your Kingdom, who was assured of Your signs, who was gladdened by Your favors, who was devoted to You, who was attracted by Your fragrances. She has ascended to the seat of Your truth and the place of Your mercy. O Lord, honor her resting place, make beautiful her abode, and make easy her desires until her heart is gladdened by her ultimate end.   AB04307

O Forgiving Lord! Make Surush Isfandiyar a recipient of Your bounty and bestowals, and bring Baman Isfandiyar into the Kingdom of mysteries. Give Isfandiyar Surush a cup of the wine of forgiveness to drink, and make Zarbanu Nush intoxicated and bewildered from the cup of the Covenant. Bestow the light of bounty upon Surur-i-Vafadar in the eternal realm, immerse him in the ocean of forgiveness, and clothe him with a new garment of pardon and grace.  AB06119

O Lord! These Persian friends followed the path of righteousness, sought after divine worship, and engaged in loving fellowship. They were renowned by Thy name and known for following Thy Faith. Now they have spread their wings and hastened to Thy realm. In the material world they sowed seeds and watered them with the water of divine guidance, that they might gather a harvest in Thy world and illumine their countenance with the light of forgiveness.  AB07741

O Forgiving Lord! Jamshid Tirandaz has taken flight to Thy garden, that like the birds of the meadow he may raise his voice and melody in the rose garden of oneness, offering praise unto Thee and seeking repose beneath the tree of hope. O Thou Bestower! Make that blessed friend radiant like a star in the east of bounty and forgiveness, and cause him to shine forth bright as the luminous moon. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind, Thou art the Forgiving Lord.  AB09339

O my God! O Thou forgiver of sins, bestower of gifts, dispeller of afflictions!  Verily, I beseech Thee to forgive the sins of such as have abandoned the physical garment and have ascended to the spiritual world.  O my Lord! Purify them from trespasses, dispel their sorrows, and change their darkness into light. Cause them to enter the garden of happiness, cleanse them with the most pure water, and grant them to behold Thy splendors on the loftiest mount.  AB11094

O peerless Lord! Make Baha'u'd-Din foremost among the dwellers of the highest paradise, and in the Abha Kingdom exalt Mirza Aqa with Thy greatest gift, and open from the resting place of the handmaiden of God Khadijih a window to the divine Kingdom. O Forgiver! Grant these helpless ones shelter and refuge in the precincts of Thy greatest mercy, and admit these suppliants into the highest paradise. Bestow pardon and forgiveness, and grant favor and bounty.  AB05141

O Lord! You are the Pardoner and You are the Forgiving One. Therefore forgive him, through Your grace O my Loving Lord, every fault and every slip and sin. Verily You are the All-Merciful and verily You are the Bestower, and from You comes pardon and forgiveness. Shelter him, O my God, in the protection of Your pardon, lead him to the fountain of Your grace, admit him within the pavilions of Your mercy, and grant him a portion of Your favors and bounties.   AB02034

"O God, my God! These two illustrious brothers and sons, kinsmen of thy servant who hath been called away by the Divine Voice... O Lord! Uplift them to lofty grades, enter them in the whole Kingdom of Thy names and attributes, immerse them in the sea of Thy mercy amidst Thy paradise, increase for them Thy grace and bounty, and make them burning lamps in the globe of Thy Kingdom and signs shining with the light of Thy forgiveness in the Celestial Threshold."  AB01039

O Lord! Two servants of Thy threshold, Isfandiyar Mihraban and Rustam Tirandaz, have hastened to the world of mystery. They have become detached from the realm of nothingness and taken flight to the celestial world of being. O Forgiver of every sinner! Through Thy pardon and forgiveness make them worthy of Thy outstanding favors. Grant them freely of Thy bounty. Make these two dear servants noble in Thy Kingdom and treat them in a manner befitting Thy grace.  AB09280

"I commune with Thee, O my God, and Thou art the One Who answers every supplicant from the Kingdom of mysteries. I beseech Thee to assist Thy handmaiden who hastened unto Thee, attracted by Thy love, and rushed to the threshold of Thy mercy, enkindled with the fire of Thy love. O Lord! Honor her dwelling place, have mercy upon her in the next world, embrace her with Thy boundless mercy, and gladden her with the cup of Thy forgiveness in the world of eternity."  AB07861

O matchless Lord! Mah Banu has taken wing toward Thy celestial realm, has spread her pinions and taken flight. Rustam and Suhrab were athirst for Thy ocean, yearned for Thy path, and hastened toward Thee that they might drink from Thy stream. O Forgiver! Withhold not Thy bounty, and cherish these helpless ones beneath Thy shelter. In the realm of mysteries, cause them to be intimate companions with the pure ones. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the All-Merciful.  AB09034

O Lord! Give Ardishir to drink from the breast of forgiveness and immerse him in the ocean of pardon, for Ardishir was captivated by Thy love and was, with heart and soul, kind to the friends. O Thou Nurturer of servants! Be Thou the guide to Thy handmaiden Dilbar and bring her into the realm of forgiveness and pardon. Make her the joy of Thy handmaidens and include her among Thy cherished maidservants, that her soul may find rest and her spirit may attain gladness.  AB08618

O Lord! Make them warbling birds, roaring lions, and fish swimming in the depths of the seas of Thy love. O Lord! His consort, who was attracted by Thy fragrances and his companion who was strengthened by the power of Thy love, has ascended to Thy Kingdom and risen to the highest of nests in the gardens of mysteries in the realm of lights. O Lord! Make them both brilliant lamps in the glass of forgiveness and radiant stars in the horizon of pardon and good-pleasure.  AB00110

O my Lord, the All-Forgiving! O my Master Who appeared upon the Mount in the Sinai of Manifestation! I beseech Thee and supplicate before the gate of Thy oneness, which Thou hast opened unto the faces of the people of the pavilion of light, that Thou forgive the sins of Thy servant Ya'qub, the wronged and oppressed one, and pardon his misdeeds and transgressions, and immerse him in the seas of Thy mercy which surge with the winds of forgiveness and pardon at every moment.  AB07781

O Lord, O Commander of the throne of pardon and forgiveness! Make Shahvir Bahram bright like the star of Bahram, be a helper to Gulbanu Fulad and make her joyful, elevate Bahram Shahvir in the ethereal Kingdom, establish a palace in the heavenly realm for Hormazdyar Fulad, make Morvarid Ardeshir Your lion in the forest, immerse Surur Hormazdyar in lights, make Banu Hormazdyar's breath musk-scented, and make Kharman Baman a gleaner in the harvest of pardon and forgiveness.  AB05207

O Thou Kind Lord! The handmaiden of God, Mrs. Hathaway, was a daughter of the Kingdom and was set ablaze with the fire of the love of God. She turned to Thee and was enkindled with the fire of Thy love. Her heart and soul were illumined by the light of guidance, and in utmost supplication she hastened to Thy Kingdom. O God! Grant her Thy forgiveness and pardon, and in the world of mysteries immerse her in the ocean of lights. Verily, Thou art the Forgiving, the Compassionate.  AB09340

O Lord! Illumine his face in the Supreme Concourse, perfume his nostrils with holy fragrances in Thy most exalted Kingdom, admit him to Thy All-Glorious Kingdom, honor him with attaining Thy presence, shelter him in the precincts of Thy great mercy, grant him the supreme gift, shade him with the Lote-Tree of the furthermost boundary, give him to drink from the cup of Tasnim in the verdant gardens, clothe him in the robes of forgiveness and beneficence in the highest paradise.  AB00599

O Thou Kind Lord! The handmaid of God, Mrs. Hathaway, was a daughter of the Kingdom and was set ablaze with the fire of the love of God. She turned to Thee and was enkindled with the fire of Thy love. Her heart and soul were illumined by the light of guidance, and she ascended to Thy Kingdom in utmost supplication. O God! Grant her Thy forgiveness and pardon, and in the world of mysteries immerse her in the ocean of lights. Verily, Thou art the All-Forgiving, the Compassionate.  AB09340

O Lord! Two servants of Thy threshold, Isfandiyar Mihraban and Rustam Tirandaz, have hastened to the world of mystery, have freed themselves from the realm of nothingness and taken flight to the celestial world of being. O Forgiver of every sinner! Through Thy pardon and forgiveness, bestow upon them abundant favors, grant them freely of Thy bounty, exalt these two dear servants in Thy Kingdom, and treat them in a manner worthy of Thy grace. Thou art the Bestower, the Giver, the Kind.  AB09280

O Lord! Khusraw Parsi and Gushtasb were disappointed in this world - make them successful in that world. Make them joyful, grant them a good end. Fulfill the desires of their hearts and souls. Forgive their sins, pardon and favor them. In the world of mystery, make them companions of the birds of the meadow. Grant them life-giving wings and enable them to soar to Thy precincts. Show Thy face and let them drink from Thy stream. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind. Thou art the Forgiver of sins.  AB09657

O my God, O Forgiver of sins and Dispeller of afflictions! O Thou Who art the Pardoner, the Merciful! I raise my suppliant hands to Thee, tearfully beseeching the court of Thy divine Essence to forgive, through Thy grace and clemency, Thy handmaiden who hath ascended unto the seat of truth. Cause her, O Lord, to be overshadowed by the clouds of Thy bounty and favour, immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness and pardon, and enable her to enter that sanctified abode, Thy heavenly Paradise.  AB07850

When the earth shook and heaven was cleft asunder, when the stars of the heights were darkened and the luminous planets were eclipsed, when the great calamity occurred and the world was darkened, when tribulation intensified and adversity and hardship encompassed all through the ascension of Thy glorious Beauty, the setting of Thy brilliant Light, and the disappearance of the Sun of Truth from the manifest horizon, this noble branch arose to serve Thee, standing firm in Thy mighty Covenant.  AB00133

O my Lord! This is Thy servant who has severed the cord of his attachment from the earthly realm and cut off the bond of his connection to the dusty earth, and has attached himself wholly to the highest zenith, the center of the radiance of the lights of the divine realm. O Lord! Make easy for him every hope and accept from him every righteous deed performed in pursuit of Thy generous countenance. Forgive his misdeeds and transform them into good deeds, and let not the end result be regrets.  AB12081

O loving Lord! Your servant Forud has ascended to the highest horizon and entered the Abha Kingdom. Yearning for the divine presence, he took flight to the branches of mysteries. O Kind One! Grant him entry to the garden of meeting and bestow upon him a share from the gathering of divine manifestation. Show Your beauteous countenance and comfort and gladden that good-natured one. Forgive his sins and teach him wondrous melodies that he may delight the Concourse on High with heart-burning songs.  AB08695

O Lord! This bird has soared to the meadows of Thy forgiveness and pardon, and this breeze has returned to the garden of Thy grace and bounty, and this servant has sought the shelter of Thy mercy. O Lord! Honor his resting place and shelter him near the Blessed Tree, and open unto him the gates of reunion, and grant him the highest station, and encompass him with the wonders of Thy supreme favors, and clothe him with the robes of munificence. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Merciful.  AB09130

O Thou Forgiving Lord! Set up this esteemed soul in Thy Glorious Kingdom upon the thrones of everlasting sovereignty and make him a heavenly prince. Help him to soar in the limitless realm and draw him unto the close companionship of heavenly birds in the hidden world. Immerse him in the ocean of Light, and make him the prince over the Realm of Mysteries. Bring him into the effulgent concourse and help him to attain his object in the realm of Thy presence and the heights of the Supreme Concourse.   AB01490

O kind Lord! These pure souls have hastened to the celestial world and soared to the hidden realm of the kingdom of mysteries. O pure God! This band of lovers had set their faces towards Thee. Enamored of Thy locks, they communed with Thee day and night, and in the garden of Thy love, they raised their sweet melodies. O kind Lord! Forgive their shortcomings, grant them refuge, make them joyous, illumine their faces, perfume their nostrils, and bestow upon them a seat in the assemblage of splendor.  AB07755

O loving Lord! Thy servant Furud has ascended to the highest horizon and entered the Abha Kingdom. Yearning for Thy presence, he took wing to the branches of mysteries. O Kind One! Grant him entry to the garden of meeting and bestow upon him a share from the gathering of divine manifestation. Show Thy beauteous countenance, comfort that good-natured one and make him joyous and glad. Forgive his sins and teach him wondrous melodies that he may delight the Concourse on High with his soul-stirring song.  AB08695

O Lord! Thy servant Mahdi, who longed for eternal meeting, hastened from this world to the realm beyond place, and turned his face away from friend and stranger, kin and relation, to become the companion of faithful friends in the Concourse on High and to be immersed in the ocean of forgiveness. O Forgiver! Free that faithful servant from the weight of sins, make him shine in the horizon of pardon, and make him a lofty palm tree in the paradise of grace. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind.  AB00456

"O Thou Almighty! O Thou Forgiver! The servant of Thy Threshold, Windust, turns his face toward the Kingdom of Abha and begs for his father Thy Grace and bounty. O Thou Omnipotent Lord! In this Great Dispensation Thou dost accept the intercession of the sons in behalf of their fathers. This is one of the special infinite bestowals of this cycle. Therefore, O Thou kind Almighty! Accept the request of this thy servant at the Threshold of Thy Singleness and submerge his father in the ocean of Thy graces"  AB02000

O Lord, forgive! O Forgiver, pardon! O Creator! Do not disappoint Dastur Jamshid, who was a servant full of hope. Cleanse him from sin and make him a radiant jewel, for he was an active servant who sacrificed his life in Thy path, hastened to this supreme paradise, laid his head upon the threshold, beseeched forgiveness of sins and sought refuge. O Kind One! Grant that servant entry to Thy celestial dwelling and make him content and successful in heaven. Thou art the Pure Lord and Thou art the Kind God.  AB07987

My God, my God! This is a handmaiden among Thy handmaidens who seeks forgiveness, mercy and good-pleasure for her mother who has returned unto Thee, tranquil in Thy grace and bounty, hoping for Thy favor and gifts, yearning for Thy pardon and forgiveness. O Lord! Have mercy upon her and clothe her with the garment of forgiveness and cause her to enter the garden of good-pleasure. Verily Thou art the Merciful, the Compassionate, and verily Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.  AB04420

Make noble his resting place and bring him down to a blessed abode, the best of dwellings near Thy greatest mercy. Raise him to a true position, a holy refuge in Thy Most Glorious Kingdom. Shelter him beneath Thy Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, gather him with the Supreme Concourse, give him to drink from the cup of meeting with Thee, and ordain every good thing for those who visit his fragrant and holy tomb, and answer the prayer of those who call upon Thee in the precincts of his verdant garden.  AB00970

O God! O Compassionate Lord! Jamshid Tirandaz hath winged his flight to Thy rose garden, that, like unto the birds of the meadow, he may raise his voice and sweet melodies in the garden of oneness, offering praise unto Thee, and seeking repose beneath the tree of hope. O Thou Bestower! Make that blessed friend to shine like unto a star in the East of bounty and forgiveness, and cause him to appear bright and manifest like unto the radiant moon. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind, Thou art the Forgiving, the Lord.  AB09339

O Lord, O Thou Forgiver of sins and Concealer of faults! These two illumined souls have winged their flight unto the Kingdom of Light and hastened from this mortal world to the realm immortal. They have cast off these earthly frames and ascended unto the dominion of eternity. O Lord! They were two blessed beings, two favored servants, two trees of Thy garden. Grant that they may attain unto the summit of Thy bestowals, immerse them in the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and cause them to enter the loftiest paradise.  AB00281

O Pure One! Make Kaykhusraw the sovereign of the realm of forgiveness and ordain him to be the king of the kingdom of bounty. Forgive his sins and deliver him from deprivation. Make him worthy of Thy favor and generosity. And for his companion Bahram's dear handmaiden, place upon her head a crown of forgiveness and clothe her in the brocade of pardon and bounty. Make her the companion of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful in the highest Paradise, and in the Kingdom on high grant her to behold that Manifest Light.  AB08444

O Lord! The mother and wife and father of the wife of Aqa Asadu'llah have been freed from the prison of dust and hastened to the heavenly court. O God, make these blessed souls close to the Threshold and make them guardians at the Sacred Court. Make them companions of the near ones in the highest paradise and associates of the Supreme Concourse in the Abha Paradise. O God, forgive and bestow favor and make them soar with sanctified spirits in the realm of mystery. You are the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Kind One.   AB01824

O Lord! O Forgiving One! A precious soul hath ascended unto the Kingdom of manifestation, and from this transient dust-heap hath hastened to the eternal world. This is a new guest - make him cherished. This is an ancient servant - bestow upon him a wondrous robe. O Peerless One! Forgive and bestow favor, grant access to the privacy of mystery, and make him an intimate companion in the gathering of divine effulgence. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the Kind One. Thou art the Forgiver, the Tender One, the Powerful.  AB10471

O Thou Creator! O Thou Forgiver! Glorify the precious Robert in Thy Kingdom and in the garden of the Paradise of Abha. Bring him in[to] intimate association with the birds of the celestial meadow. O Thou Knowing God! Although that sinless one was black in color, like unto the black pupil of the eye, he was a source of shining light. O Thou forgiving Lord! Cause that longing one to attain Thy meeting and cause that thirsty one to drink the water of life in abundance. Thou art the Forgiver, the Pardoner, the Compassionate...   AB00425

The Master said that by the mercy of God, not through His justice the condition of those who have died in sin and unbelief can be changed. We are commanded to pray that their condition may be changed. As we have the power to pray for these souls here, so shall we have the same power in the afterlife --in the Kingdom. The power of this prayer of intercession is a special teaching of this religion. To pray for the dead was not given as a special religious command (of the Divine Messenger) until the day of the Blessed Perfection.   ABU1291

O Divine Providence! Exalt this beloved handmaid, the daughter of His Holiness Haydar, in Thy kingdom and enable her to associate closely and intimately with the birds of Thy meadow. Immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness and from the fountainhead of everlasting life bestow upon her an ample share. Rend asunder her veils, grant her a discerning eye and enable her to attain Thy greatest bestowals. Thou art the Forgiver of sins, the Bestower, the Compassionate and Thou art the Sovereign of the Throne of forgiveness and pardon.  AB09281

O Kind Lord! Thy faithful servant Higgs grew weary of the mortal world and soared to the divine realm. He departed this earthly life to attain life eternal. He ascended from this world of darkness that he might enter the luminous world. O Lord! Honor this guest in Thy Kingdom and accept this servant at the threshold of Thy mercy. Welcome this bird into Thy heavenly garden and let this thirsty one drink from the fountain of everlasting life. Illumine this lamp in the assemblage above. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bountiful, the Kind.  AB04178

And as for those blessed souls among the loved ones and handmaidens of God who have taken flight to the rose garden of the All-Merciful, and for whom you have sought intercession for forgiveness, 'Abdu'l-Baha, at the hour of dawn which is the beginning of daybreak, seeks forgiveness for those near ones of the divine threshold and supplicates and implores at the court of the Blessed Beauty that He may cause those blessed souls to enter His Kingdom and be immersed eternally in the ocean of lights in the gathering of His manifestation   AB01035

O forgiving Lord! Rif'at was clever, this young child was the lamp of the gathering and the sweet-singing bird of that dwelling. She would recite the verses and chant the words with the most wondrous melodies. She was like an articulate nightingale, in harmony with the Concourse on High. Now she has taken flight from this transient furnace to the eternal rose garden, that she may engage in song and melody in the Kingdom of Mystery. O Lord! Bestow boundless favors and grant freely Thy forgiveness. Thou art the Forgiver, the Kind One.  AB07986

O God, my God! Verily, Thy maidservant--acknowledging Thy signs, believing in Thy words, supplicating to Thy kingdom, attracted to the radiance of Thy beauty--was ailing, and through Thy mercy her wing feathers were cut off. Seeking her deliverance, she flew toward the apex of salvation until Thou didst grant her wish in the precincts of Thy most great mercy. Lord! Increase her loftiness and exaltation, her felicity and greatness, and perfume her tomb with the copious rain pouring down from the heaven of Thy forgiveness and Thy pardon.  AB08485

O Lord! O Forgiver! These fortunate ones have bidden farewell to this earthly world and have ascended to the pure realm. They were enamored of Thee and enchanted by Thy countenance and nature. They possessed pure hearts and radiant souls. The fire of passion and rapture blazed so intensely that it consumed their physical garments, and their spirits, like the birds of the meadow, took flight to Thy rose garden. O Forgiver! Forgive their errors, bestow Thy gifts, grant purity, and ordain faithfulness. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind One.  AB07982

O Kind Lord! Thou hast raised up that passionate handmaiden on the Day of Resurrection, poured the wine of gladness to her lips, and mingled truth and love like honey and sugar. Now she is the companion of the angels of the highest heaven, has heard the melody of the hidden Herald, and has fallen into the ocean of Thy forgiveness and pardon. O Lord! Forgive her and bestow Thy favors upon her, make her the companion of intimate prayer and supplication in that other world, and at the feast of meeting make her partake from the cup of Thy bounty.  AB09095

O Thou Kind Lord! This dearly cherished maidservant was attracted to Thee, and through reflection and discernment longed to attain Thy presence and enter Thy realms. With tearful eyes she fixed her gaze on the Kingdom of Mysteries. Many a night she spent in deep communion with Thee, and many a day she lived in intimate remembrance of Thee. At every morn she was mindful of Thee, and at every eve she centred her thoughts upon Thee. Like unto a singing nightingale she chanted Thy sacred verses, and like unto a mirror she sought to reflect Thy light.  AB00728

O my God, my God! Verily, Thy contented and well-pleased handmaiden Rubabih has found assurance in Thy grace, Thy pardon and Thy forgiveness, and has returned unto Thee, supplicating and imploring before the Kingdom of Thy mercy, that Thou mayest shelter her in the presence of Thy Most Great Mercy, admit her to the scene of reunion, and cause her to abide eternally in the realm of divine favors. O Lord! Make easy her hopes and grant her desire. Verily Thou art the Merciful, verily Thou art the Compassionate, verily Thou art the Mighty, the Bestower.  AB04322

O Lord! Make the sun of Khursand content and happy through forgiveness and grace. Immerse him in the ocean of forgiveness and clothe him with the garment of pardon and bestowal. Illuminate his forehead with the light of manifest favors and make his soul a witness in the gathering of the Supreme Concourse. You have delivered him from the darkness of this mortal world, so make him successful in attaining the radiance of the eternal realm and grant him dwelling in the precincts of Your great mercy and shelter under the Lote-Tree of the Utmost Boundary.   AB02170

O Lord, O Forgiver! The parents of Farrukh have hastened from this earthly world to the solitude of the divine realm, and have taken flight from this world of nothingness to the infinite expanse of the eternal world of being. They have no provisions or means, they had no trade or profession. They placed their trust in You and turned to Your exalted threshold. O Lord, bestow favor upon their believing son, overlook their errors, forgive their sins, grant them shelter, admit them to Your court, and immerse them in the ocean of Your pardon and forgiveness.  AB05749

O God! This is a bird that hath winged its flight unto the meadows of Thy forgiveness and pardon, and this is a breeze that hath returned unto the garden of Thy grace and bounty, and this is a servant that hath sought the vicinity of Thy mercy. O Lord! Make honourable his abiding-place and shelter him beneath the Blessed Tree, and open unto him the gates of reunion, and grant him the supreme station, and encompass him with the wondrous tokens of Thy greatest favours, and clothe him with the garments of Thy gifts. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful.  AB09130

O Lord! These stainless souls grew contemptuous of the world of dust and have ascended unto Thy kingdom. From this dreary world they have winged their flight unto the realm of resplendent glory. Weary and dejected they languished in this puny nest, eagerly waiting to set out for their celestial habitation. They moved swiftly and sped forth on their flight until they attained unto Thee. O Forgiving One! Grant them Thy forgiveness. O All-Loving One! Bestow upon them Thy tender care. O All-Sufficing One! Give them Thy bounty and be their comforter and companion.  AB09901

O Kind Lord! Thou hast raised up that maidservant who stirred hearts on the Day of Resurrection, poured the wine of joy into her mouth, and mingled truth and love like honey and sugar. At this moment she is the companion of the angels of the highest heaven, hath heard the melody of the hidden Herald, and hath fallen into the ocean of Thy forgiveness and pardon. O God! Forgive her and bestow Thy favors upon her, make her the companion of prayers and supplications in that other world, and cause her to partake of the cup of bounty at the feast of meeting with Thee.  AB09095

O Forgiving, Merciful Lord! The fathers and mothers of the friends have cast off their earthly frames and hastened to the realm of Thy mercy, bidding farewell to the world of nothingness and taking flight to the world of being. O Forgiver, O Concealer of faults! Show kindness to these helpless ones, forgive these sinners, grant them dwelling in the presence of Thy great mercy, and bestow upon them refuge and shelter beneath the shade of Thy pardon and forgiveness. Thou art the All-Forgiving, Thou art the Kind, Thou art the Most Merciful, Thou art the All-Loving.   AB01049

O my God, O God of Utterance and Goal of all creation! I testify to the sanctification of Thy Being and the detachment of Thine Essence, and by Thy might and sovereignty and greatness and power, I beseech Thee, O my God, by the spirits that have ascended to the heaven of Thy grace and by the lights whereby the horizons of the hearts of Thy chosen ones were illumined, to ordain for Thy lovers that which shall gladden the hearts of the sincere ones among Thy friends and whereby the eyes of those who are near unto Thee among the Hands of Thy Cause shall be consoled.   BH01968

O Lord, O Forgiver! The servant of Thy threshold, Ardeshir Jamshid, sought refuge at Thy court. He left the world of nothingness and hastened to the life-bestowing realm of being. He showed forth utter humility and supplication, and offered fervent entreaties. He sought forgiveness of sins and infinite pardon. O Kind Bestower! Cast a ray from the Sun of Forgiveness upon his spirit and soul, and immerse him in the ocean of Thy pardoning grace. As Thou hast purified him from clay and water, grant him therefore freedom, bestow eternal life, and confer endless tranquility.  AB08382

These pure souls have hastened from the earthly realm to the world of the celestial spheres. They acknowledge their sins and confess their shortcomings. They have no hope save in Thy grace and favor, and no desire except to take refuge in Thy forgiveness and pardon. These helpless souls had no capital except trust in Thee. They have clung to the hem of Thy bounty. O Thou Forgiver! Pardon their sins, cover their faults, and bestow Thy gifts, that they may attain endless bounties in the hidden Kingdom and witness Thy beauty and perfection in the gathering of divine manifestation.  AB09025

O thou Creator! Glorify this esteemed daughter of the Kingdom in the Divine World, and cause this longing one to attain unto the honor of Thy union. Give this thirsty one to drink from the Fountain of Life and cause this enraptured one to seek rest and peace in thy shelter. Grant the wishes of her heart and soul and make her survivors firm and steadfast in the right way and in the Path of the Kingdom, so that they may light the lamp of that attracted one, and walk in her footsteps. May her descendants be related to Thy threshold in this world and may they be known in the Name.   AB01897

In regard to asking forgiveness and reciting prayers on behalf of those souls that have hastened from this world to the next world and have not found the path of guidance, but have evinced great kindness to the friends - you had asked if requesting pardon on their behalf is permissible and beneficial. In this merciful cycle supplication, entreaty, and intercession at the threshold of oneness on behalf of the entire human race is both permissible and beneficial, for this is the cycle of the Blessed Beauty and His mercy to all created things, visible and invisible, is overflowing.  AB00548

O Lord! These pure souls have become detached from the dusty world and have taken flight to the realm of mysteries, that they may clasp the hand of Thy forgiveness and bounty. O Lord! Thou art the Kind, the Bestowing One. Make this handmaiden of Thine and these two servants radiant, make them befitting, and in the celestial garden make them creators and singers, that like morning birds in the supreme Paradise they may raise their burning song and lift up their voices in worship, praise and glorification at the threshold of Thy bounty. Thou art the Forgiving, the Bestowing, the Kind One.  AB07739

O my God and my Beloved! Verily Thy servant, who was attracted by the breezes wafting from the gardens of Thy divinity and was set ablaze by the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy mercy, has ascended unto the kingdom of Thy oneness and soared unto the realm of Thy sanctity. O Lord! Immerse him in the oceans of Thy forgiveness, cause him to enter the gardens of Thy Kingdom, shelter him beneath Thy Divine Lote-Tree, admit him into the paradise of meeting with Thee, O Thou Who art the Lord of earth and heaven, and grant him the banquet of reunion with Thee in the precincts of Thy most great mercy.  AB08410

O my God, my God! Verily, Javad increased in his longing to meet Thee and in his yearning to attain unto the precincts of Thy mercy, until he soared on wings of attraction unto the kingdom of Thy bounty, that he might abide forever in the gardens of Thy forgiveness, Thy pardon and Thy loving-kindness. O Lord, Lord! He is thirsty; lead him to the wellsprings of Thy favors and bestowals. He is hungry; feed him from Thy tables and blessings. He is naked; clothe him with the robes of Thy grace and beneficence. He is supplicating; shelter him in Thy nearness and grant him the bounty of meeting Thee.  AB12618

O Lord! These pure souls have hastened from the earthly realm to the world of the celestial spheres. They acknowledge their sins and confess their shortcomings. They have no hope save in Thy grace and favor, and no desire except to take refuge in Thy forgiveness and pardon. These helpless souls had no capital except trust in Thee. They have clung to the hem of Thy loving-kindness. O Thou Forgiver! Pardon their sins, cover their faults, and bestow Thy gifts, that they may attain endless bounties in the hidden Kingdom and may be blessed to behold Thy beauty and perfection in the assemblage of splendor.  AB09025

O glorious Lord! Do not abase Your servant Isma'il at Your threshold. Make him honored in Your Kingdom and raise him from the depths to the vast heights. For like a nightingale he grew weary of the ash heap and yearned for the rose garden, and like a fish he hastened to the ocean of forgiveness, and like one who thirsts he turned to the fountain of life. O Forgiver! Shelter that helpless one and guide him to Your threshold. Grant him the cup of life and eternal existence. Bring him into the garden of immortality and like the birds of faithfulness, bestow upon him melody and song and intimate prayer.   AB03360

O Forgiver! Make Ardeshir Khosrow a lion in the jungle of that other world, and guide the beloved to the feast of reunion. Nurture Rostam Darab in the stream of bounty with the waters of forgiveness. O Lord! These souls received heavenly tidings and their faces were illumined by the radiance of Thy love. They learned Thy mystery in the divine school and hastened to the hidden world. Therefore, show kindness to these guests and seat them at the heavenly table. Give flight to these tamed birds, forgive them and cherish them. Thou art the Bestower, the Forgiver, the Giver, the Cherisher, and the Kind One.  AB08533

O Lord, I entreat Thee, fervently and tearfully, to cast upon Thy handmaiden who hath ascended unto Thee the glances of the eye of Thy mercy. Robe her in the mantle of Thy grace, bright with the ornaments of the celestial Paradise, and, sheltering her beneath the tree of Thy oneness, illumine her face with the lights of Thy mercy and compassion. Bestow upon Thy heavenly handmaiden, O God, the holy fragrances born of the spirit of Thy forgiveness. Cause her to dwell in a blissful abode, heal her griefs with the balm of Thy reunion, and, in accordance with Thy will, grant her admission to Thy holy Paradise.   AB05996

O Lord! These pure souls have ascended unto the realms on high. They have proved themselves nimble and sprightly in Thy service. They rid themselves of all, drew nigh unto Thee, and reached the Fountain-head of eternal life. They have now taken their flight from this world on the wings of longing and have attained Thy kingdom of glory. Gladden Thou their hearts in the world of the unseen and let them abide beneath the shadow of the tree of hope. Bestow upon them Thine infinite mercy and grant them Thy boundless pardon. Make them the signs of Thy forgiveness and the manifestations of Thy forbearance and bounty.  AB06117

O Lord, my God, my Pardoner, my Forgiver, my Compassionate Lord, my Gracious King, my Shield and Protection, my Shelter and Guard! ... Therefore, O my God, protect them from the flood of disobedience, and deliver them, O my Beloved, from whatsoever may prevent them from entering the scene of reunion, the Paradise of bounty. Fulfill their vision, grant them the meeting, and cause them to abide forever in the gathering-place of revelation. Verily, Thou art the Gracious, the Merciful, the Lord of bounty, and verily Thou art the Lord of forgiveness, kindness, and pardon, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Merciful.  AB12111

These souls, like swift-winged birds, have been freed from the cage of the earthly realm and have soared to the celestial world. They have escaped from the earthly nest and have flown to the nest of the pure world. They hope that in the luminous rose garden of the upper world, they may find their perch upon the cypress tree of paradise and take their place in the palace of forgiveness. O Merciful Lord! Grant every pure soul entry to Your divine threshold, make every destitute one precious in Your heavenly realm, immerse them in the sea of Your bounty and generosity, and permit them to behold Your radiant countenance.  AB05921

O Thou kind Lord! This maidservant of Thy Threshold lived beneath the shadow of chastity and virtue, was a kind companion, and with heart and soul yearned to gaze upon that radiant Countenance. Now she hath hastened from the realm of earth to Thy Kingdom, that in the court of the divine Realm she might attain the presence of Thy luminous countenance and find repose beneath the shade of the Tree of Paradise. Grant her Thy grace and show her Thy loving-kindness. Bestow upon her Thy gift and shower upon her Thy mercy, that she might attain the desire of her heart and soul and become, through Thy bounty and favor, joyous and triumphant.  AB08052

O God! O Thou Who hast caused the sun of forgiveness to shine forth from the dawning-place of Thy bounty, and hast made the ocean of pardon, forbearance and forgiveness surge through the breezes of Thy grace! Thy helpless and distressed servant hath turned toward the kingdom of Thy forgiveness, and he who seeketh Thy protection hath, of his own free will, supplicated before the heaven of Thy providence. He beggeth, imploreth, grieveth and seeketh Thy forgiveness and pardon for his parents who honored his abode, showed him the utmost affection, reared him in the cradle of tenderness and comfort, and showered him with loving kindness.  AB09765

Lord! Lord! Verily, a spiritual and goodly maidservant of Thine hath left the life of this world and bidden farewell to her loved ones. She hath set her sight upon the highest summits and arrived at the threshold of Thy holiness, seeking clemency for her wrongdoings, hoping to cast her burden, imploring pardon and forgiveness, attracted to Thy face, and eager to attain Thine unsurpassed gifts. Lord! Fill up her cup with the wine of Thy favor, shower her vessel with the water of faithfulness, and permit her to meet Thee in the most exalted Paradise. Thou art the Generous. Thou art the Almighty. Thou art the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB08397

"My Lord and my Hope! Thou seest me supplicating at the gate of Thy mercy and beseeching the kingdom of Thy oneness that Thou mayest send down upon her whom Thou didst honor with proximity to Thy House, and didst aid to recognize Thee, and didst give to drink from the cups of the wine of Thy love, and didst connect to the tree of Thy divinity - that Thou mayest shelter her in the protection of Thy supreme mercy and settle her in the gardens of Thy mighty kindness and immortalize her in the paradise of meeting Thee and admit her among the company of those who are enraptured in the light of Thy beauty. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful."   AB03019

O my God! This servant of Thine, Abu'l-Qasim, has turned toward the Dawning Place of Thy forgiveness and the Rising Point of Thy favor, and seeks pardon for his father who has left this transient abode and turned toward the eternal realm of the hereafter. O Lord! Forgive his sins and mistakes and pardon his misdeeds, both outward and hidden. O Lord! Immerse him in the seas of Thy great mercy. Then forgive Thy servant Baqir who has ascended to Thy heaven and been illumined by the lights of Thy glory. Then forgive Thy handmaiden who was related to Thy servant who visited Thy pure shrine, and her sister who ascended to the Kingdom of Thy manifest mercy.  AB02322

O God! O Forgiving One, O Loving One, O Pardoning One, O All-Praised One! Verily, Your grateful servant stands at the threshold of Your prosperous House and calls upon You with abundant hope for pardon and good-pleasure on behalf of his confined mother, so that when her spirit soars to the heights of joy, You may cause her to enter the highest mansions, give her to drink from the cup of gladness and pure wine whose mixture is of camphor, and make her hear the melodies of the birds in the garden of delight when she seeks refuge in the shelter of Your great mercy, O Pardoning One, O Forgiving One! Verily, You are the Generous, the Merciful, the Kind, the Loving One.  AB08479

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the grief of Thy chosen ones, the tears of Thy leaves, and the sorrows that have melted hearts throughout the lands, to forgive Thy male and female servants who have remembered her according to what hath descended from the heaven of Thy bounty and the mouth of Thy will. O Lord! Thou seest how cares have encompassed the manifestations of Thy Self-Subsisting Name, and sorrows have surrounded the dwellers of the pavilion of Thy glory and grandeur. I beseech Thee by their sighs and tears concerning what hath befallen Thee in Thy days, to send down upon Thy household that which may tranquilize their hearts and give rest to their souls.   BH01106

O thou Pardoning God! Ignite her candle and cause her star to become resplendent in the Immortal Realm. Let her memory be spread abroad over all regions and her name, like unto that of Mary Magdalene, be ever illustrious among the denizens of the Kingdom. Cause her fame to be world-wide and her voice to reach the ears of the Supreme Concourse. Exalt the members of her family and place upon their heads the diadem of everlasting glory; that they may appreciate the value of that honorable soul and may realize what a magnificent edifice she has erected for them and what a standard of everlasting glory she has hoisted, so that of her, her family and kindred may be eternally proud.  AB02673

O my Lord and my Hope! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy mercy to forgive Thy servant who hath ascended unto Thee, who hath humbled himself at the gate of Thy oneness, who is broken before the might of Thy divinity. O Lord! Shade him beneath the clouds of forgiveness, immerse him in the ocean of pardon and bounty, and cleanse him from the stain of disobedience. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate. O Lord! He hath ascended to the precincts of Thy mercy and soared unto the kingdom of Thy bounty. Therefore, honor his abode and cause him to dwell in the habitation Thou hast prepared for the choicest among Thy creation and the most noble among Thy chosen ones.  AB09038

My God, my God! This is Thy servant who heard Thy call and responded to Thy summons, who turned toward Thee and spoke in praise of Thee, who called the people to the kingdom of Thy oneness and guided them to the heaven of Thy singleness, who gave glad tidings of the manifestation of the signs of Thy sanctification among the righteous and attracted them to the kingdom of mysteries, and who remained firm in Thy religion until he returned unto Thee, placing his trust in Thee. O Lord! Cleanse him from the stain of disobedience and cause him to enter the kingdom of forgiveness. Immerse him in the seas of bounty and benevolence until he is submerged in the ocean of lights in Thy kingdom  AB07174

O God! O Forgiver of sins, Remover of afflictions, Attractor of hearts, and Concealer of every sinner even though immersed in the depths of transgression! Verily, certain servants whom Thou didst choose for Thy love, select for Thy knowledge, single out for Thy mercy, and guide unto the Dawning-Place of Thy oneness, whom Thou didst heal from the ailments that beset all souls, and with whom Thou didst fulfill Thy trusted covenant in the realm of spirits, such that they cared not for mere shadows but arose with joy when the Lamp shone forth in the glass of Thy mercy - they walked in Thy path, drank from the Salsabil of Thy grace, and quaffed from the cup wherein the wine sparkled like unto a lamp.  AB01224

O God, O Bestower of bounty and Merciful One! Shahriyar was a friend and Salamat was full of love and Kaykhusraw was of good nature and Ardishir was like a lion in the forest of Thy love and Jamshid was unique. These friends were caught in the snare of Thy love and were blessed with Thy knowledge. They turned their faces toward Thee and set out for Thy path and yearned to behold Thy beauteous countenance. They left the earthly world and hastened to the pure realm. O Merciful Bestower, forgive their sins and pardon their errors and grant absolution for their transgressions. In the private chamber of mystery, favor them with the vision of Thy beauty. Grant them eternal glory and everlasting nobility.   AB06526

O Forgiver of sins, Healer of hearts, Remover of difficulties, and Knower of the unseen! Verily Your servant Isma'il has left behind the tattered shirt and his spirit has soared to the Kingdom of mysteries, the center of sanctification. My Lord! He has turned toward Your door, provided with hope to enter Your presence, seeking forgiveness for sins, relying upon Your forgiveness for all beings, assured by Your favors, content with Your bounty, accepted at Your most exalted holy threshold. My Lord! Fulfill his hope, grant his wish, make noble his abode, and cause him to enter the garden of eternity and make him immortal in the paradise of meeting. Verily You are the Forgiving, the Merciful, the All-Pardoning.  AB03392

O my God! I supplicate and beseech Thy Kingdom of forgiveness and the Dominion of Thy might and power to encompass these souls with Thy pardon and bounty, and aid them in the shelter of Thy great mercy and the refuge of Thy mighty gift. O Lord! These were captives of Thy love, were poor at the gate of Thy riches, and were lowly in the court of Thy glory. They placed their trust in Thee and beseeched before Thee, and their spirits hastened in longing for Thy presence. Therefore, make them signs of Thy forgiveness and standards of Thy pardon, and establish them in the gathering of divine manifestation, immersed in the seas of light in the world of mysteries. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Omnipotent.  AB09608

O God! How can I enumerate Thy praise, or speak of Thy glorification and attributes in supplication unto Thee, or become immersed in the ocean of my prayers to Thee, or empty myself in humility and entreaty before Thee, while I am drowning in the sea of sorrows, consumed by the fire of grief and deprivation, wounded by the arrows of destiny, and cast upon the dust in the cave of anguish and pain at the calamity of Thy servant who was submissive to Thy sovereignty, humble before the might of Thy grandeur, lowly at Thy gate, and broken before the kingdom of Thy majesty - he who believed in Thee and Thy verses, who chanted Thy words, who established Thy proofs and evidence, and who confirmed Thy Manifestation and authority?  AB11807

O Lord! Godspeedily closed his eyes to this world and hastened to Thy realm that he might attain Thy bounties and find rest in the shade of the Tree of Hope. Grant his request and make him prosperous. Firuzih came as a beggar to Thy door with hope - therefore make him successful. He is in great need - make him a companion of forgiveness and an associate of the angels. And Faramarz was Thy servant, was seeking Thee, was treading the path to Thy dwelling that he might behold Thy countenance and drink from Thy stream - make Thy bounty worthy and free. And Rashid drank from Thy spring and heard Thy melody and ran toward Thee and flew to Thy realm - therefore grant him a nest and dwelling in the free cypress of Thy rose garden.  AB07058

My Lord and my Hope! A tender, fresh, and verdant branch from the tree of Thy mercy has been stripped of its earthly raiment of clay and elevated to the Supreme Companion, that Thou mayest clothe it in the garments of light and in beautiful, silken and ethereal robes, and admit it to the gatherings of divine manifestation in the unseen realm of the Kingdom of mysteries. O Lord! Embrace it in the cradle of Thy favors, honor it in the bosom of grace, bounty and beneficence, illuminate it with the lights of holiness in the world of vision and witnessing, and admit it to the gathering of divine presence - that resplendent assemblage illumined by the lights of beauty in the Kingdom of glory - through Thy grace and mercy, O Thou Possessor of bounty and perfection.  AB11389

O Lord, bestow kindness upon Bahram and bring him into the eternal world. Grant pardon and forgiveness, and bestow abundant mercy and free grace. O Forgiving, Kind One, You delivered Rustam from oppression and tyranny and brought him to a world where no oppressor's hand can reach. He was captive - You freed him. He was lowly - You made him noble. He was trapped - You gave him flight. He was weak and needy - You made him companion to the holy birds. O Lord of all, bring Jamshid into the lofty palace and grant the dear handmaiden permission. Clothe her in the garment of sanctification and remove from her face the veil of worldly defilement, so that in the world above she may shine with a face like the luminous moon and radiate the light of pardon and forgiveness.   AB06115

"O my God! O my God! Verily Your servant Javad, with detached heart, followed the path of guidance, dealt with people according to Your teachings in all lands, and feared the Day of Reckoning, until he left this worldly life and ascended on wings of success to the highest horizon, the threshold of Your holiness in the Most Glorious Kingdom. O Lord! Make him drunk with the wine of forgiveness and crown him with the diadem of pardon in the Garden of Paradise, that he may enter among the free with a radiant countenance bearing the light of the All-Merciful. O Lord! Let the cup of Your favors overflow for him in the midst of Paradise and cause him to dwell near Your mercy in the realm of lights, the scene of mysteries. Verily You are the Forgiving, the Merciful, the Bestower."  AB11642

My God, my God! This is a servant whom You nurtured in the embrace of Your care and the cradle of Your bounty, until he grew up under the shadow of Your favors. You guided him to the wellspring of Your knowledge and gave him to drink from the pure waters of certitude through Your grace and gifts. You adorned his head with the crown of acceptance in the court of Oneness through Your generosity and kindness. You caused to grow in his wings the radiant good deeds and the leading everlasting righteous works, until he soared to Your Kingdom and arrived at the expanse of Your majesty and might. O Lord! Clothe him in the crown of forgiveness and the diadem of pardon through Your grace and favor. Admit him into the paradise of Your forgiveness and grant him the meeting, O You Who shows mercy to the loved ones!   AB05497

O my Lord and the Lord of all created things, my King and the King of the unseen and the seen! With the utmost powerlessness and lowliness, submissiveness and repentance, I turn unto Thee, in tears before Thy face, supplicating to Thee and imploring Thee to ordain every good thing Thou hast ordained in the world of existence for Thy servant who hath hastened to the tabernacle of Thy bounty, whose banners are upraised and whose peaks are elevated. He hath taken shelter at Thy holy and august threshold and hath sought refuge at Thine exalted court. Make him a sign of Thy mercifulness in Thine All-Glorious Kingdom and a manifestation of Thy bounty and Thy favor in Thine Exalted Dominion. Permit him to meet Thee after his ascension to the realms above and to behold Thy beauty in Thy most luminous, most brilliant Horizon.   AB06213

O my God! O my God! This is a servant who hath ascended to the Kingdom of Thy Mercifulness; supplicated to the realm of Thy Might and Singleness; is rejoiced at the appearance of Thy Kingdom; the effulgence of Thy lights and the spread of Thy signs. He hath believed in Thy Verses, been overtaken with the ecstasy of Thy love and with the cheer of Thy affection, until his soul craved to behold Thy Beauty--and could not (or was unable to ) endure the grief and violence of the fire of separation, hastened unto the Supreme Friend and betook himself to Thy Threshold of Holiness at the visiting places of grandeur! O my Lord! Suffer him to abide in a blessed abode and cause him to enter into a retreat of faithfulness and favor him to everlastingly dwell in the heavenly paradise, the precinct of meeting in the shelter of Thy great mercy!  AB07170

O my God, O my God! This is a handmaiden who was related to the brother of the martyr, Thy servant Husayn, and who arose to worship Thee and serve Thy chosen ones throughout her life, sparing no effort in this from her beginning to her end. Rather, this was her ultimate desire until her breath was confined in her cage and she longed to ascend to an exalted station of truth, and flew on her wings to the summit of her prosperity and the center of her success. O Lord! Make her a sign of forgiveness among the concourse of women, purify her from the defilement of sin, lead her to the spring of life in the Garden of Paradise, and grant her the blessing of meeting Thee in the world of mysteries, the center of divine manifestation through the radiance of lights, throughout endless ages and cycles. Verily Thou art the Forgiving, verily Thou art the Kind, and verily Thou art the Pardoning, the Bestower.  AB07681

O Lord my God! Thy pure and radiant servant hath returned unto Thee, Thy devoted and joyful companion who hath believed in Thy days and testified to the truth of Thy words, who hath glorified Thy name and gazed upon Thy beauty, who hath perceived Thy mystery and arisen to spread abroad Thy sweet fragrances. He, verily, hath followed Thy path, O Lord, and quaffed from Heaven's soft-flowing waters. The drawn and gleaming sword of Thine enemies deterred him not from remaining steadfast in Thy glorious Cause. He hath called out in Thy name, invoked Thy kingdom, expounded Thy proofs, established Thine evidences, proclaimed Thy signs, guided others unto Thy path, enkindled Thy loved ones, and arisen in the service of Thy chosen ones. Lord! Lord! Make him a sign of Thy forgiveness, an emblem of Thy loving-kindness, a word of Thy benevolence, and a lamp of Thy pardon. Suffer him to arrive at Thy door, to attain unto Thee, to be blessed with meeting Thee, and to live forever within the paradise of Thy beauty.  AB02274

O my God! O my God! Verily Thy servant Ali-Akbar believed in Thee on the greatest Day of Gathering, when the Hour drew nigh and the moon was cleft in twain, and all were in continuous gathering. O Lord! He endured every hardship and affliction and exile from his homeland, finding no rest for a moment. Heavy upon him were the chains and fetters and shackles of men, and the pearl necklaces around the necks of the faithful. Ever did he remember Thee in darkness, and stood with eyes flowing with tears, saying: 'Lord! I have sacrificed for Thy loved ones my spirit, my heart, my soul and my body. Enable me to serve Thee and make me steadfast in servitude unto Thee, and grant me an exalted station at Thy holy Threshold.' O Lord! Make heavy his scale of good deeds, make his balance preponderate, elevate his station, admit him to the gathering of divine manifestations, and gladden him through Thy grace and bounty, O Lord of the clear signs! Verily Thou art the Forgiving, verily Thou art the Kind, verily Thou art the Ever-Relenting, the Merciful.  AB04674
O my Lord! Ordain for them a bountiful reward, a beautiful provision, and abundant sustenance. Accept from them these good deeds and recompense them for their righteous acts. Admit them all through the gate of Thy bounty, O Creator of the heavens!  AB12835
 
