Therefore pray that this world may become another world and this dark realm may become illumined.  AB05196

pray meanwhile in behalf of the people—so that the forces of Peace may gain ascendance over the powers of war  ABU1256

I always pray that the banner of international comity and the solidarity of human race may be hoisted in America.  ABU2550

O God! Raise aloft the banner of the oneness of mankind and establish the Most Great Peace. Bind together the hearts.  AB04517

We beseech God to aid them all to achieve that which is conducive to the reformation of the world and the tranquility of souls.  BH09671

We desire to purify hearts from rancor and hatred, that thereby the standard of unity may be raised in the kingdom of creation.   BH02431

May the human horizons become illumined, and peace, tranquility, reconciliation and prosperity become the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful.  AB06419

O Lord, forgive their sins and keep them in Thy protecting shade in both worlds. O Lord, confer upon them Thy great pleasure. All are servants of international peace, all are servants of humanity.   ABU0607

Verily, I pray God to assemble all mankind in the shadow of the standard of peace and under the tents of love in the Paradise of El-ABHA; so that all of them may become the children of God and His beloved ones.   AB05891

"O my God! Assist Thou all of them and pour upon them the showers of Thy Supreme Confirmations; so that they may become the cause of the tranquility of the world of creation; to be the servants of the human race"  AB00644

In any case, this servant and you and the monotheists dwelling in every land must, with complete helplessness and absolute humility, beseech God, exalted be His glory, for protection and the exaltation of the Word of Unity.   BH00502

O Lord! Make us brethren in Thy love, and cause us to be loving toward all Thy children. Confirm us in service to the world of humanity so that we may become the servants of Thy servants, that we may love all Thy creatures and become compassionate to all Thy people.   ABU0052

O Heavenly Father! Extinguish this fire and transform this war into peace. Disperse these dense clouds and illumine this dark horizon. Transform these thoughts of hatred and enmity into thoughts of love and unity, and remove this bloodshed and carnage from among Thy children.  ABU0084

O my Lord, my Defender, my Help in peril! Lowly do I entreat Thee, ailing do I come unto Thee to be healed, humbly do I cry out to Thee with my tongue, my soul, my spirit: O God, my God! The gloom of night hath shrouded every region, and all the earth is shut away behind thick clouds.  AB00240

O Thou Almighty Lord! Strengthen all mankind that they may do according to the instructions and teachings recorded in these writings, so that wars and strifes may be eliminated from the world of man...that the world of creation be adorned and all the people of the earth abide in unity and peace  AB05590

O Thou kind Lord! Unite all. Let the religions agree and make the nations one, so that they may see each other as one family and the whole earth as one home. May they all live together in perfect harmony. O God! Raise aloft the banner of the oneness of mankind. O God! Establish the Most Great Peace.   ABU0137

O Lord! Help these oppressed ones to succeed in serving the world of humanity, so that the hand of oppression and aggression may be shortened, and the light of humanity's eternal glory may shine forth. May justice and fairness be established and the foundation of tyranny and inequity be destroyed. May endless affection appear and the unity of humankind be made manifest.  AB00914

O my Lord! Grant success to the victorious state and the brilliant community in achieving harmony after discord until they blend like water and wine, like spirit and peaceful body. My Lord! Bring accord between them and unite their hearts until these dense, heavy clouds covering the face of the horizons disperse and the sun of love and harmony shines forth with utmost brilliance.  AB00840

Therefore you who are the believers and the elect of God pray, pray in their behalf;- so that the conflagration set ablaze by the Kings and emperors may be extinguished, the day of Peace, good will and better things will come, the afflicted souls may be set free from the chains of slavery and torment, the world may find rest and composure and the stars of prosperity may shine and gleam.  ABU0794

O Lord! Make this assemblage the cause of upraising the standard of the oneness of the world of humanity, and confirm these souls so that they may become the promoters of international peace. O Lord! Verily, the people are veiled and in a state of contention with each other, shedding the blood and destroying the possessions of each other. Throughout the world there is war and conflict.   ABU0049

O God! O Thou Who showeth mercy to the servant who walketh in the shining path, who holdeth fast to the just and gracious Law, and who is guided to the luminous way: Aid all to practice justice, equity and fairness, and through Thy grace and favor establish them firmly in truth. Unite all hearts that they may return to faithfulness, shun estrangement, blend like water and wine, and mix like honey and pure milk.  AB05997

O Lord! Cause these bloodthirsty factions to abhor savagery and repent of bloodshed. Make them heavenly, divine, and merciful, that like unto angels they may become manifestations of divine virtues and daysprings of godly attributes. May they abandon differences and seek unity, be delivered from strife and conflict and pursue fellowship and concord, be rescued from the darkness of error and illumined by the light of supreme guidance.   AB00071

O Lord! Have mercy on the suckling infants, the humble elderly, and even the grazing animals. Deliver the land from the people of discord and make that realm secure and peaceful, and the government an impregnable fortress, that the standards of love and faithfulness may be raised high, that the signs of fellowship and loyalty may appear, that discord may be transformed to harmony among the factions, and that this revolution may be uprooted.  AB00170

O God of Names and Creator of Heaven! Though we are unworthy of the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty, and undeserving of Thy mercy and favors, I beseech Thee by Thy Most Beautiful Names and Thy Most Exalted Attributes, and by the cry of those who yearn for Thee in the wilderness of separation, and by the call of Thy lovers in all regions, to have mercy upon the birds of the wilderness and desert, and the beasts of the hills and mountains.   BH00787

O Lord! Come to the aid of the helpless. O Pure God! Have mercy on these orphaned children. O Self-Sufficient Lord! Stay this mighty flood. O Creator of all peoples! Extinguish this blazing fire. O Succorer! Hasten to the cry of the orphans. O True Judge! Console the anguished mothers. O All-Merciful and Compassionate One! Have mercy on the weeping eyes and burning hearts of fathers. Still this tempest and transform this world-consuming war into peace and reconciliation.  AB00172

O Lord! The fires of war have been kindled in valleys, hills and plains, and the flames of conflict have spread even to the depths of the seas and heights of the air with ruination and destruction. The earth is ablaze with its fires, and the seas are encompassed by their tempests, thunderbolts and floods. O Lord! Souls are choking, breasts are rattling, the earth is convulsed and has become so strait that even the beasts and birds are disturbed in their dens and nests, trembling in their lairs and caves.   AB00145
