Set, then, our feet firm, O my God, in Thy Cause  BH08600

O Lord! Make his feet firm upon the straight path  AB11175

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy mighty Cause   BH10839

make me steadfast in this Cause whereby feet have slipped   BH07768

O my Lord! Aid me to serve Thee throughout my remaining days.   BH10186

ordain for me that which will...make me steadfast in Thy Cause   BH10934

O my Lord! Make them steadfast in the path of Thy firm Command   BH07665

O my Lord! ... make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause   BH09613

O Lord! Make me steadfast in Thy love and vocal in Thy remembrance   BH08887

O my Lord! I beseech Thee...to aid me to be steadfast in Thy Cause   BH03701

"O my God! I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in this mighty Cause."   BH11166

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast upon this firm and straight Path.   BH06946

enable me to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book   BH05643

I beseech Thee...to aid me to remain steadfast in Thy love in this Day   BH08208

I beseech Thee to aid me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with   BH04364

I beseech Thee to make me one of those who have stood firm in Thy Cause.   BH08806

I beseech Thee, O my God, to assist me to remain steadfast in this Cause   BH07730

I beseech Thee, O my God...to strengthen me in steadfastness in Thy Cause   BH05398

"O Lord! Aid Thy male and female servants to remain steadfast in Thy love"   BH07690

Then I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH08550

I beseech Thee...to make me in the nights and days stand firm in Thy service   BH10359

to make this servant of Thine steadfast in Thy Cause and vocal in Thy praise   BH05273

I beseech Thee...to assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with   BH03050

O Thou Glorious Lord! ... make him steadfast in Thy Religion amongst mankind.  AB09742

Make us then steadfast in Thy love and walking in the ways of Thy good-pleasure.  BH05400

"Make me, then, of those who have remained steadfast in Thy love and good-pleasure"  BH04251

I beseech Thee by Thy Self to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH03323

Make me, under all conditions, one who remembers Thee, extols Thee and speaks forth   BH09245

Then make me steadfast in this Cause whereby the feet of Thy creatures have slipped   BH09066

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast, firm and upright in Thy Cause and in Thy love.   BH05646

My God, my God! I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love   BH10095

to grant me constancy in serving Thee, to let me recline upon the carpet of Thy favor   BB00519

O Lord! Pour forth upon me patience in this tribulation, make firm my feet in Thy path  AB09135

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and in Thy love under all conditions.   BH07627

"My Lord! Aid me to remain steadfast as Thou didst aid my brother to remain steadfast"   AB05955

O my Lord! Aid me to preserve that which Thou hast given me and to stand firm in Thy Cause   BH06197

to make me attracted to Thy verses, speaking forth Thy praise, and steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH04470

O Lord! Pour out upon me patience in this tribulation, make firm my footsteps upon Thy path  AB09135

O Lord! Assist him in all conditions and circumstances, make his hopes easy of fulfillment   AB03673

Then aid me to be steadfast in Thy love and to turn away from those who have opposed Thy Self   BH05532

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy bounty.   BH05595

O my God! I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and detached from all else but Thee.   BH08289

O Lord! As Thou didst confirm him to turn unto Thee, confirm him in steadfastness in Thy Cause   BH02248

I beseech Thee to bestow upon Thy loved ones the heavenly manna and the water of steadfastness.   BH05776

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne to aid me to stand firm in Thy Greatest Steadfastness   BH07239

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast and firm in Thy love and upright in the service of Thy Cause.   BH05642

Then make me so steadfast in Thy service that nothing shall deter me and no affair shall weaken me   BH09597

I beseech Thee...to aid Thy loved ones with patience from Thee and steadfastness from Thy presence.   BH09859

"O my Lord! I beseech Thee...to ordain for me steadfastness in Thy Cause and adherence to Thy cord."   BH06720

My God, my God! Aid Thy servants to arise to serve Thee and assist them to be steadfast in Thy love.   BH03570

"I beseech Thee to ordain for me that which will assist me to remain firm in Thy love and Thy Cause."   BH08507

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and enabled to voice Thy praise amongst Thy servants.   BH05732

"I beseech Thee...to make me a servant of Thy Cause, beholding Thy horizon, and steadfast in Thy love"   BH07070

I beseech Thee to aid me under all conditions to be steadfast in Thy Cause and to arise to serve Thee.   BH04522

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and remembrance, and this is what lies within my power.   BH08832

I beseech Thee to assist me in all conditions to remember Thee and to praise Thee and to serve Thy Cause  BH02250

Hold thou fast to the Most Great Handle which none can break, and grasp the hem of the robe of grandeur.  AB10678

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, and holding fast to Thy mighty cord.   BH06142

O my Lord! Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, then make me steadfast in Thy Cause   BH03161

make this servant assured in Thy Cause and steadfast in Thy love and gazing unto Thee and speaking of Thee   BH04247

Then aid me to remain steadfast in Thy Cause whereby the hearts of Thy creatures were thrown into commotion   BH06682

O Lord! Make me steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause in such wise that the winds of trials shall not move me   BH03102

I beseech Thee by Him not to shut me out from Thy door, then make me steadfast in Thy love and good-pleasure.   BH03489

O my Lord! Aid me to serve Thee and to stand firm in Thy Cause and to return unto Thee in all conditions.   BH06152

I have desired from the heaven of Thy bounty that which will make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH03640

I beseech Thee...to make me in all conditions turned towards Thee, speaking Thy praise, and steadfast in Thy love.  BH05842

to cause me to turn my face wholly towards Thee, and to seek Thy shelter, and to be steadfast in my love for Thee   BH03373

I beseech Thee by the breezes of Thy Revelation in Thy days to make me and Thy loved ones steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH01849

O Lord, hold us firm in Thy noble command, and bestow upon us Thy Gifts through Thy bounty, grace and beneficence!  AB02317

I beseech Thee to make me speaking in Thy remembrance, steadfast in the service of Thy Cause, and firm in Thy love.   BH04338

I beseech Thee by the kingdom of Thy verses and the dominion of Thy power to make me firm and steadfast in Thy Cause   BH06816

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! ...deprive me not of steadfastness in Thy Cause and detachment from all else but Thee.   BH05911

My God! Make me steadfast in Thy Covenant, and cause me to be firm in Thy love, and deliver me from every severe test.  AB09681

O Lord! Assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause and ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds  BH06628

O Kind Lord! Make me firm and steadfast, make me upright, and make me an intimate companion in the gathering of mysteries.  AB06351

O my Lord! Aid me to remain steadfast in the Most Great Cause. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH06819

I beseech Thee to make me known through Thy name and steadfast in Thy service. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH03212

O Lord! Aid her to achieve that which Thou lovest and which pleaseth Thee. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Bestower.  AB08383

My Lord! Enable them to stand firm in Thy Cause, to be steadfast and immovable in Thy service, to be sincere in obeying Thee  AB02040

Thus one must supplicate and implore God at all times that one may remain steadfast under tests and patient under calamities.  AB03452

I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy love, enkindled with the fire of Thy Cause, and detached from all else but Thee.   BH06449

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the fire of the Tree of Thy Cause to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause   BH08587

I beseech Thee by Thy manifest Book to make me steadfast through Thy power, firm through Thy might, and standing in Thy service.   BH02225

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy greatness and Thy power and Thy sovereignty to make me firm, steadfast and upright in Thy love.   BH08876

O Lord! Strengthen their loins and fortify their backs in servitude at Thy mighty threshold and in worship of Thee night and day   AB01346

send down upon them patience in that which Thou hast raised up unto the heaven of Thy uniqueness and the horizon of Thy detachment   BH09914

I beseech Thee, O King of earth and heaven...to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy service and a helper to Thy religion   BH04413

I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty and generosity to make me steadfast in this Cause whereby the feet of Thy creatures have slipped.   BH07453

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me in all conditions turned toward Thee, speaking Thy Name, and steadfast in Thy love   BH06973

O Lord! Assist this servant to remain firm in Thy Covenant and steadfast in Thy testament, O Thou the Lord of the Day of Separation!  AB06515

I beseech Thee, by the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy generosity, to assist me to remain steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause   BH07363

I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy service, victorious in Thy Cause, speaking in Thy praise, and turned toward Thy horizon   BH06254

I beseech Thee to make me in all circumstances steadfast in Thy Cause and to hold fast unto that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book  BH05362

"I beseech Thee, O my Lord...to strengthen this handmaiden of Thine in Thy remembrance and praise and in steadfastness in Thy Cause."   BH10045

I beseech Thee by Thy radiant countenance, by Thy dark flowing locks, and by Thy sweetest utterance, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause  BH06374

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by them, to make me in all conditions steadfast in this Cause whereby the feet of the mystics have slipped.  BH04344

My God, my God! Aid Thy servant to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee, then make him steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love   BH03734

I beseech Thee to aid me to arise to serve at the door of Thy bounty and to remain steadfast in Thy service at every morn and eventide   BH10677

Hold thou fast unto the cord of God in such wise that neither the affairs of the world nor the multitude of armies shall prevent thee.   BH06630

I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, speaking in Thy remembrance, and arising to serve Thy loved ones.   BH07311

Then cause me, O my God, to be so steadfast in Thy Cause that neither the tempests of allusions nor the storms of doubts shall move me.   BH04794

Therefore, O Kind Lord, keep us firm and steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament, that we may become the cause of his joy and fragrance.  AB09359

I beseech Thee to make me so steadfast in Thy love that neither the oppression of the Pharaohs nor the might of tyrants shall prevent me.  BH02288

And thou, remember thy Lord, then be devoutly obedient, that thou mayest be accounted among those who remember, recorded by the Pen of God   BH11005

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Self to make me steadfast in Thy mighty Cause and to preserve me in all conditions from the accursed Satan   BH08957

I beseech Thee, O my God, to grant me, through Thy grace and bounty, the Kawthar of steadfastness, that I may remain steadfast in Thy Cause   BH06659

O Lord! Cause her to turn unto Thee and to gaze toward Thy horizon. Ordain for her that which will assist her to remain steadfast in Thy Cause   BH06189

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me and for Thy servants that which will draw them nigh unto Thee and strengthen them to stand firm in Thy Cause   BH05446

I beseech Thee to aid me to such steadfastness as cannot be hindered by the world and its hosts and its ranks and its ornaments and its colors   BH04555

"I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love in such wise that neither the might of princes nor the power of the powerful shall deter me."   BH03443

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge, the vessels of Thy power, and the suns of Thy loving-kindness, to make me steadfast in this Cause   BH09513

O Lord! Make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love in such wise that tribulations may not prevent me from turning toward Thy direction   BH03460

...and assist me to remain steadfast in Your love. Verily You are the Powerful, the All-Bountiful, the Sovereign, the Bestower, the Ever-Flowing.   BH04145

I beseech Thee, O Lord of mankind, to ordain for me that which shall make me steadfast in Thy Cause and vocal in Thy praise amongst Thy servants.   BH00832

I beseech Thee by the fragrances of the garment of Thy mercy and the sweet scents of Thy bounty and favors to aid me to be steadfast in Thy Cause   BH08962

I beseech Thee, O Sovereign of earth and heaven, by this Wronged One Who is imprisoned in the fortress of Akka, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH08104

I beseech Thee...to make me in all conditions one who speaks forth Thy Name, who gazes toward Thy horizon, and who stands ready to serve Thy Cause.  BH07538

My God, my God! ... O Lord! Ordain for me through Thy bounty that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause and in service to Thy loved ones.   BH06268

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, to give me to drink, at all times, from the choice wine of steadfastness   BH04125

O Lord! Aid Thy servants to act in accordance with what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book and with what will profit them in every world of Thy worlds.  BH01973

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.   BH08222

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which necks have bowed before Thy sovereignty and power, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH05486

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all who are in the unseen and the visible, to assist me to be steadfast in all conditions   BH06974

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to turn towards Thee. I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause under all conditions.  BH08662

Ask thou God to assist thee to remain steadfast in this mighty Cause and to aid thee to act according to that which He hath revealed in His wise Book   BH07099

O my Lord! Make me steadfast in Thy love, then enable me to serve Thee. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH06722

make me in all circumstances to turn unto Thee and to gaze toward the horizon of Thy good-pleasure and to act according to what Thou hast commanded me   BH06436

My God, my God!...to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy love, firm in Thy Cause, and upright on Thy straight path and Thy mighty Message.   BH03492

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy Most Exalted Word, to grant me the Most Great Steadfastness and the Greatest Intercession   BH03195

Then cause me, O my God, to be steadfast in Thy love in such wise that the denial of the deniers and the words of the proud ones... may not hinder me.   BH03066

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the doubts of the learned nor the allusions of the mystics shall keep me back  BH08344

I beseech Thee...to ordain for him who hath drunk the choice wine of Thy love that which shall make him steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy service.   BH10528

I beseech Thee...to assist me in serving Thee and in obeying Thee, that I may follow Thy chosen ones whom Thou hast made the Dawning-Places of Thy Cause  BH09948

I beseech Thee, O King of the kingdom of earth and heaven, by the mysteries of the realm of power, to make me steadfast in all conditions in Thy Cause.   BH06825

Beseech thou God to make thee steadfast in that wherein thou art, for this is a station greater than every station and mightier than every mighty thing   BH02483

Make me steadfast in this Cause whereby all who are in the heavens and on earth were thunderstruck, save them whom the hands of Thy bounty did preserve.   BH07612

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning unto Thee, clinging to Thy cord. I beseech Thee...to strengthen me to remember Thee and praise Thee and serve Thy Cause   BH03378

O my Lord! Assist me to perform that which Thou hast desired, through the power of Thy sovereignty, and which Thou hast sent down in Thine unerring Book.   BH06685

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Great Name, to ordain for me that which shall make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH03338

Then enable me, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to stand firm in Thy Cause, to behold Thy horizon, and to turn toward the lights of Thy countenance.   BH06692

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me to turn towards Thee. I beseech Thee to make me successful in this Cause whereby feet have slipped.   BH10812

I beseech Thee to assist me to be steadfast in Thy love. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Generous.   BH05793

O my Lord! Ordain for me through Thy bounty that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and strengthen me to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book   BH08617

Then make me, O my God, of those who have attained unto the Kawthar of steadfastness, whereby nothing among all things prevented them from turning unto Thee   BH04922

Make me steadfast in Thy Cause and grant that I may be reckoned among those who have not violated Thy covenant nor followed the gods of their own idle fancy.  BB00554

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word and the Most Exalted Horizon to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and to confirm me in steadfastness in Thy Cause   BH06040

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Book and the lights of Thy countenance to aid me to stand firm in Thy love and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy bounty.  BH07811

"My Lord, my Lord! Make firm my steps on Thy straight path, enable me to serve Thy mighty Cause, and make me steadfast in exalting Thy Word among the worlds."   AB00770

O Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and to aid me in that which Thou lovest and pleasest.   BH07718

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause. Verily Thou art the Almighty Whose power hath encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH07341

"I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, the Most Glorious, whereby the Ship of Thy Cause did sail upon the ocean of Thy mercy, to make me steadfast in this Cause"  BH04893

I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst created all contingent beings and brought forth all existing things, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy love.  BH07466

My God, my God! Aid me to turn unto Thee and to be detached from all else but Thee. Then cause me to drink the wine of steadfastness from the hand of Thy bounty.   BH06669

I beseech Thee by the yearning of them that are athirst in their separation and remoteness from Thee... that Thou aid me to stand firm in Thy love and Thy Cause.   BH05770

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy tribulation and sorrow and imprisonment to ordain for me that which shall adorn me with the ornament of Thy love in all conditions.   BH01142

O Lord! Make it firm in Your religion and aid it in the greatest steadfastness. Verily You are the Confirmer, the Helper, the Mighty, the Merciful, the Bestower.   AB06556

I beseech Thee by Thy days and their breezes, and by the manifestations of Thy power and their modes, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and speaking in Thy praise   BH05379

Cause us, then, to be so steadfast in our love towards Thee that we will turn to none except Thee, and will be reckoned amongst them that are brought nigh to Thee.  BH01969

O God! Make me steadfast, constant and firm. Protect me from grievous tests and keep me safe and sound in the impregnable stronghold of Thy Covenant and Testament.  AB02342

I beseech You by Your Name through which the Concourse on High rejoiced to make me in all conditions one who speaks forth Your praise and stands firm in Your Cause.  BH09256

cause me to be steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the oppressors among Thy creatures nor the rebellious among Thy servants shall keep me back from it   BH06400

O Lord! I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that the laws and principles of men shall not prevent me from Thy commandments and ordinances   BH02245

O my God and my Lord! I beseech Thee by the heaven of Thy Will and the ocean of Thy Purpose to make me in all conditions turned towards Thee and steadfast in Thy love.  BH11869

O my God, my God! ... to make me in all conditions a helper of Thy Cause, one gazing toward Thy direction, speaking forth Thy praise, and standing firm in Thy service.   BH06872

"I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and looking unto Thee in all conditions. O my Lord! Aid me to remember Thee and to praise Thee and to serve Thy Cause."   BH05479

"My God, my God! I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the books of the world nor all that the nations possess shall prevent me."   BH05367

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the realms of hearts and souls, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH10087

I beseech Thee to assist me to preserve that which Thou hast given me through Thy bounty and grace - namely Thy love, which nothing in Thy kingdom of creation can equal.   BH09032

"I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of Thy Cause to make me steadfast in Thy love, speaking Thy praise, and standing firm in Thy service."   BH07373

O Lord! Thou hast planted the tree of hope in the hearts of Thy loved ones. Withhold not from it the stream of Thy mercy, and protect it from the swords of Thine enemies   BH05309

I beseech Thee, O Sovereign of Names and Ruler of earth and heaven, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy Cause and holding fast to the cord of Thy good-pleasure.   BH10355

I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty which encompasseth all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth, to make them steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy remembrance and praise  BH07675

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Great Name...to make me steadfast, articulate and oriented toward the service of Thy Cause, Thy remembrance and Thy praise  BH04781

I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy wisdom to ordain for me that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love   BH08952

I beseech Thee...to ordain for Thy loved ones that which befitteth Thy generosity and bounty...and have sought from Thy grace that which shall make me steadfast in Thy love   BH08375

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to aid thee and assist thee to serve Him, to transcribe His verses, to make mention of Him and praise Him, to stand firm in His mighty Cause.   BH06023

I beseech Thee by the Crimson Scroll and by the mysteries of Thy Tablets, O Thou Creator of the heavens and Sovereign of all names, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy love.   BH08993

I beseech Thee by Thy Name that hath dominion over all names to aid me in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book and to enable me to remember Thee and to praise Thee.   BH07126

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy signs and by Thy servant who hath mentioned me before Thy face, to aid me to remain steadfast in the Greater Steadfastness...   BH04512

I beseech Thee by the Name through which Thou didst subdue the world, to make me in all conditions standing firm in Thy service and speaking forth Thy remembrance and praise.   BH06710

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the waves of the ocean of Thy knowledge to make me so steadfast in Thy love that the veils of the world will not prevent me   BH07247

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me unto Thy path and caused me to hear Thy call. I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.   BH07077

I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy revelation and the Dayspring of Thy inspiration to aid me in serving Thee and praising Thee and in remaining steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH03364

"I beseech Thee by Thy Manifestation and by Thy Name which has shone forth from the horizon of Thy Most Exalted Pen to aid me in Thy remembrance and in serving Thy loved ones."   BH06940

I beseech Thee by the fragrances of Thy days and the waves of the ocean of Thy grace that Thou make me in all conditions empowered to remember Thee and steadfast in Thy service   BH03228

I beseech Thee by Thy Cause whereby the limbs of the idolaters trembled and the cry of the transgressors was raised, to make me steadfast and vocal in Thy service and remembrance  BH10284

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me through Thy bounty and generosity that which will make me a helper of Thy Cause and an aid to Thy loved ones, and steadfast and firm in Thy love  BH05467

The request of this servant to all the friends is that they pray night and day that this servant may be assisted in fulfilling the conditions of servitude to the Ancient Beauty.   AB01879

I beseech Thee that Thou withhold not from us that which is with Thee and ordain for us what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen servants who have laid down their lives in Thy path   BH08861

"Raise them up, O my God, to such heights that they will recognize in all things the tokens of the power of Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy most august and all-glorious Self."  BH08245

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the hosts nor the ranks nor the tyrants and Pharaohs of the earth shall prevent me.  BH04579

Aid me to serve Thee in such wise that the clamor of those who have turned away from Thee and have been heedless of Thy sovereignty and have disputed Thy signs shall not deter me.   BH06587

"O Lord! These two who are related to him - confirm them in steadfastness in Your Covenant and Testament, enable them to obey Your command, and make them sincere in Your religion."   AB00528

O Lord! Make their hearts firm in Thy Covenant, preserve them in the cave of Thy protection and shelter, guard them beneath the shadow of the wing of Thy preservation and safekeeping  AB07075

I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Places of Thy Cause and the Daysprings of Thy Revelation and the Manifestations of Thy Self, to aid me in Thy service and in steadfastness in Thy Cause.   BH09109

I beseech Thee by the power of Thy Pen of destiny and by Thy might in Thy kingdom to make me steadfast in Thy love and speaking in Thy praise and detached from all else besides Thee.   BH05739

O Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I desire naught save that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause and hold fast to the cord of Thy commandments and ordinances.   BH04274

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Great Announcement and by Thy Mighty Book and by the effulgent lights of the Daystar of Thy Name, the Powerful, to make me steadfast in Thy love.   BH05645

Furthermore I beseech Thee, O Sovereign of bounty and generosity, to grant me the Most Great Steadfastness, the description of which hath proved beyond the power of all created things.   BH01899

I beseech Thee, O my God, to maintain it in what it is, through the perpetuity of Thy glory, and to never cut off from it the wafting of the breezes of Thy mercy throughout all eternity   BH10283

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee...I beseech Thee, O Lord of eternity and Educator of the nations, by Thy Most Great Name, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy religion...   BH04909

I beseech Thee not to abandon me unto myself, and to strengthen me in all circumstances to remember Thee, to praise Thee, and to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.   BH06200

Then draw them, O my God, through Thy Most Exalted Word to the Supreme Horizon in such wise that neither the oppression of the peoples nor the opposition of the learned shall dismay them.  BH09372

"Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to gaze upon the horizon of Thy manifestation. I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in this Cause which hath caused hearts to lament."  BH08321

I beseech Thee by Thy manifestation in Thy days and the splendors of the lights of Thy face, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, speaking in Thy remembrance, and arising to serve Thy Cause  BH05462

I beseech Thee by the lights of the Throne and the mysteries of the Cause to make me steadfast in the cord of constancy in Thy love and firm in what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Tablets.   BH06663

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause. O my Lord! Thou seest Thy handmaiden clinging to the cord of Thy bounty and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy.  BH05242

"My God, my God! Aid me to be steadfast in Thy Cause and illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge. Then send down upon me that which will make me firm and steadfast in Thy love."   BH02607

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. Ordain for me that which befitteth Thy Manifestation and Thy days. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, and worthy to answer.  BH04438

I beseech Thee...to make me among those who have stood firm in Thy love, who have spoken Thy praise, who have held fast to the cord of Thy Cause, and who have clung to the hem of Thy mercy.  BH10365

O my Lord! Send down upon him from the heaven of Thy generosity that which will make him firm and steadfast, clinging and holding fast to Thy luminous hem and to Thy firm and mighty Cause.   BH10156

O my Lord! Aid me to perform such deeds as may be adorned with the ornament of Thy acceptance. Then ordain for me through Thy power that which shall draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions   BH07388

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue hearts and minds, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.  BH08620

O my Lord! I have left Thy vicinity by Thy leave. Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to do this and for having made me one of those who are content with what Thou hast decreed for them.  BH03189

"I beseech Thee to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise and in the service of Thy Cause in such wise that the hosts of every one who hath denied Thy right in the Hereafter shall not deter me."   BH05235

O Lord! Make me steadfast in Thy love and then cause me to stand firm in Thy Cause. Verily, Thou art the Almighty over what Thou willest, and Thou art, in truth, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH03472

My Lord, I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the fruits of the tree of Thy knowledge, to make me steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise, and reliant upon Thee in all conditions   BH07935

I beseech Thee...to grant me...the choice wine of steadfastness through Thy grace and sovereignty. O my Lord! Assist me to serve Thy Cause and to arise for that whereby Thy Name may be exalted.   BH10595

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having made known unto me the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy inspiration. I beseech Thee to assist me to serve Him at all times.   BH05371

O God! I beseech Thee by Thy Glory at its most glorious, and all Thy Glory is indeed glorious. O God! I beseech Thee by the whole of Thy Glory to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and in Thy love.   BH01357

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause, and the radiance of Thy Word, and the attraction of Thy verses, to make me steadfast and firm in Thy Cause and in Thy love   BH07950

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, through which the idols lamented, to make me steadfast in the service of Thy Cause, and speaking forth Thy praise, and gazing toward Thy horizon.   BH07525

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the sun of Thy grace to aid me in all conditions to be steadfast in Thy Cause. Verily Thou art the Powerful over whatsoever Thou willest.  BH06790

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Great Announcement and Thy Manifest Book and by the revelations of the lights of Thy Mighty Name, to make me steadfast in Thy love and speaking forth Thy praise   BH05263

O my God! I beseech Thee by the blood that was shed in Thy path and by the hearts that were melted in Thy love, to assist Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy Cause and to arise to serve Thee.   BH02918

I beseech Thee by the Revealer of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy clear signs to assist me to be steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause, and to enable me to do what befits Thy Revelation and Thy days  BH03135

I beseech Thee, O my God and the God of all things, my Creator and the Creator of heaven, by the steadfastness of Thy chosen ones in serving Thy Cause and the firmness of Thy faithful ones in Thy days   BH09729

I beseech Thee...to bestow through Thy bounty upon all who have been tried in Thy name that which shall make them steadfast in Thy Cause and abiding through the perpetuity of Thy kingdom and dominion.   BH08500

I beseech Thee by the breathings of Thy revelation and the traces of Thy Pen to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy love and standing firm in the service of Thy Cause with wisdom and utterance.   BH02326

O my Lord! Ordain for me a seat of truth with Thee and decree for me that which shall cause me to endure through the endurance of Thy Kingdom. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Forgiver, the Merciful.  BH11850

"I beseech Thee, O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens, by the lights of Thy throne and the attraction of Thy call and the influence of Thy utterance, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause"  BH08183

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Manifestation from the highest horizon, and by Thy mighty signs, and the evidences of Thy power in the kingdom of creation, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH08956

I beseech Thee by the outpourings of Thy grace, the emanations of Thy loving-kindness, and the evidences of Thy power and might, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.   BH06891

This is a servant who hath been attracted by Thy call, hath responded to Thy summons, hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, hath testified to Thy words, and hath acknowledged and recognized Thy beauty.  AB10809

I beseech You by Your Most Exalted Self and the Manifestations of Your power in the kingdom of creation to ordain through Your Most Exalted Pen that which will enable me to remain steadfast in Your Cause   BH08592

I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation, and the Dayspring of Thy Most Great Signs, and the Manifestation of Thy Most Exalted Attributes, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy love.   BH08335

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the ocean of names surged and the Most Exalted Horizon shone forth, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and enabled to speak Thy praise amongst Thy servants   BH03525

O my Lord! Strengthen my limbs through Thy strength and Thy sovereignty and Thy might and Thy power, in such wise that the happenings of the world shall not prevent me from Thy remembrance and Thy praise.   BH11538

I beseech Thee by Thy signs which have encompassed all things, and by the Concourse on High, and the dwellers of the Most Exalted Paradise, to make me steadfast, firm and upright in Thy love and Thy Cause.  BH06632

We beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of Thy knowledge to aid us to be steadfast in Thy Cause, lest the doubts of the deniers and the hints of the barking ones cause us to slip.   BH05580

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, through which Thou didst break the seal of Thy Choice Wine, to make me steadfast in Thy service, holding fast to Thy cord and clinging to the hem of Thy mercy   BH04899

O my Lord! I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which shall make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, standing in Thy service, and acting according to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.   BH04597

O Lord! Make firm their feet upon Thy straight path, and guide them along the right way. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, Thou art the Most Merciful, Thou art the Ancient, the Compassionate, the All-Kind.   AB00280

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Throne and Thy seating upon it, by the hidden and treasured mysteries in the treasuries of Thy knowledge, to make me steadfast in Thy days, uttering Thy remembrance and praise   BH04410

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the world, by Thy Most Great Name whereby the limbs of the people were shaken, to assist Thy servants and Thy handmaidens to become steadfast in Thy Cause and to arise in Thy service.   BH10149

I beseech Thee by the Dayspring of Thy Cause, the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Ocean of Thy knowledge to ordain for this handmaiden of Thine that which shall aid her to remain steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH05240

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue all who are in the heavens and earth, and through which the people of the graves arose, to preserve me beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy singleness.  BH03403

I beseech Thee, O God of the seen and unseen, by Him Who conversed with Thee on Sinai, Who through Thy power and sovereignty was established upon the throne of Revelation, to aid me to be steadfast in Thy love.   BH04845

My God, my God! ... I beseech Thee... to make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the hosts of doubts nor the intimations of those who have disbelieved in the Day of Judgment shall keep me back.   BH09653

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Book and the lights of the horizon of Thy Revelation to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, clinging to the cord of Thy grace, and arising to serve Thy Cause.  BH08368

"I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me in all conditions to hold fast to Thy cord and cling to Thy robe, to be set ablaze with the fire of Thy love and be attracted by the sweetness of Thy utterance."  BH07136

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to strengthen thee in that which thou art engaged in, and to inspire thee at every moment with that which shall guide all who dwell in the realms of being to the Cause of thy Lord.   BH01883

Do Thou clothe the hearts of Thy loved ones with the armor of steadfastness and assurance, that the arrows of the intimations of those who have disbelieved in the Sovereign of all possibility may not affect them.   BH10280

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to make me among those whom the cawing of Thine enemies has not kept back from Thy love, and whom the threatening of the wicked has not frightened in Thy days   BH07102

O God of the world and Lord of the nations! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name, through which the lands were shaken and the servants were disturbed, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.   BH06297

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Countenance, and the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the mysteries of Thy Book, to aid me in all conditions to serve Thee and to serve Thy loved ones.   BH03384

I beseech Thee to assist us in raising the banners of gratitude and praise amidst all created things, and to grant us the Kawthar of steadfastness in Thy Cause and the Salsabil of firmness in the path of Thy love.  BH00679

O my God! I beseech Thee by this Most Great Name that Thou make me steadfast in His love and His good-pleasure, in such wise that I turn to none except Him, and hold fast to none but Him, and accept none save Him.   BH07650

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the Kawthar of Thy utterance and the exaltation of Thy Word and Thy standing before the faces of Thine enemies, to make me steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise amongst Thy servants.   BH05747

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the Word whereby all things were attracted and the ocean of Thy knowledge surged in the world of creation, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy religion.   BH05744

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy standing before all faces and by Thy power over the seen and unseen, to ordain for me that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause and holding fast to the cord of Thy loving care   BH04124

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me steadfast in Thy service and Thy remembrance in such wise that nothing whatsoever shall prevent me from turning unto Thee, O Lord of all names and Creator of heaven!   BH09521

O my Lord! Sever me from all that keepeth me back from turning toward Thy beauty, then make me steadfast upon the path of Thy love in such wise that the souls of all the sinful idolaters shall not cause me to slip.   BH06061

My God, my God! My hope is in Thy nearness and my desire is Thy good-pleasure. I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love and detached from all else but Thee and speaking in Thy praise.   BH03845

"I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty amidst all created things to assist this handmaiden of Thine to stand firm in Thy Cause and to hold fast unto that which will exalt her among Thy handmaidens."   BH05946

I beseech Thee, O my God, to assist me to remain steadfast in this Cause whereby the feet of the learned have slipped save those whom Thy mercy - which hath preceded the worlds of the seen and unseen - did encompass.  BH05092

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast unveiled the mysteries from the faces of the righteous, that Thou make me steadfast in Thy love and grant me Thy presence and honor me with the visit of Thy Beauty.   BH01853

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Manifest, the Hidden, to assist me to act according to that which Thou hast commanded me therein...to ordain for me that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.   BH08366

I beseech Thee by the letters of Thy Book and by the Ha through which Thou didst manifest the station of pure Identity, to make me patient in the occasions of Thy decree and steadfast when the tempestuous winds blow.   BH07986

My God, my God, my Lord and my Support! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path and illumined my heart with the light of certitude. I beseech Thee... to aid me to remain steadfast in Thy love.   BH04343

Through the pure and special favors of His Holiness the Self-Subsisting One (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones), I beseech confirmation of steadfastness and firmness, and protection from trials and tests  AB04586

O God of Names, Creator of heaven, Subjugator of all things! I beseech Thee by Thy most exalted Self to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, ever gazing toward Thy horizon, and voicing Thy praise amongst Thy servants.   BH03980

O Lord, O Lord! Give them to drink from the cups of joy in the first life, intoxicate them with the choice wine of bounty in the next life, and make them signs of guidance, lamps of righteousness, and angels of heaven.  AB01274

I beseech Thee by Thy Self and by them who have offered up their souls in Thy path to aid this handmaiden of Thine to make mention of Thee and to extol Thee among Thy handmaidens, and to make her steadfast in Thy Cause   BH06388

O Lord of all names! I beseech Thee by the Crimson Scroll and by the Ark which Thou hast specially ordained for the people of Baha, to assist me in all conditions to remember Thee, to praise Thee and to serve Thy Cause.   BH02850

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy knowledge, by the power of Thy Pen, and by the lights of Thy countenance, to make me steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause, and to enable me to hold fast unto the cord of Thy bounty.   BH02641

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by that treasure which Thou hast deposited in the hearts of them that are sincere amongst Thy servants to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love and standing ready to serve Thee.   BH01196

O Lord! Aid Thy servants to recognize Thy Self and that which Thou hast willed through Thy power and sovereignty. Then enable them to act in accordance with what Thou hast commanded them in Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets.  BH08254

I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast and vocal in Thy service and praise. I further beseech Thee by Thy Will which hath subdued all who are in earth and heaven to assist me in all conditions to act as befitteth Thy days   BH04616

O Lord! Illumine their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge, and adorn their heads with the crowns of trustworthiness amidst Thy creatures, and their temples with the ornament of detachment through Thy grace and mercy.   BH02014

I beseech Thee by the Light that shone forth from the horizon of Sinai and by the Fire which Thou didst manifest from the Tree of Revelation, to make me firm in Thy love, steadfast in Thy Cause, and speaking in Thy praise.  BH10462

O my God and the God of all who are in earth and heaven! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word wherein are concealed the oceans of meaning and utterance, to make me cling to the hem of Thy riches and stand firm in Thy Cause   BH08933

I beseech Thee...by Thy Most Great Name, to assist Thy loved ones to stand firm in Thy Cause in such wise that the opposition of the Pharaohs among Thy creatures and the tyrants of Thy lands...shall not cause them to stumble   BH07470

I beseech Thee by Thy binding Command whereby Thou didst guide the peoples, and by Thy Most Great Signs which Thou didst send down from the heaven of will and bounty, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and upright in Thy love.   BH05962

I beseech Thee, O Mystery of existence and Educator of the seen and unseen, by Thy greatest signs and the manifestations of Thy grandeur amongst mankind, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and speaking forth among Thy creatures  BH04827

make me sincere before Thy generous countenance, passionate for Thy manifest beauty, clinging to Thy strong cord, holding fast to Thy ancient covenant, firm and steadfast in Thy mighty testament, walking upon the straight path  AB00499

I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the lowing of any calf nor the croaking of any crow nor the swords of those who have arisen to extinguish Thy light shall prevent me.   BH08973

I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath subdued all contingent beings, and by Thy Name whereby Thou hast made all created things to be subservient, to make me in all nights and days speak forth Thy praise and stand firm in Thy love.   BH06806

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having remembered me and enabled me to recognize Thee when most of mankind have turned away from Thee. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance to assist me to remain steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH07757

I beseech Thee by the sovereignty of Names to make me steadfast in Thy service, speaking Thy praise, holding fast to the cord of Thy grace, and standing firm in this Cause whereby the limbs of the people of Thy kingdom have trembled.  BH03446

My God, my God! By Thy power, raise up one who will arise to serve Thy Cause in such wise that nothing whatsoever shall deter him, nor shall the might of potentates frighten him, nor shall the clamor of the powerful weaken him.   BH00426

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath encompassed all things, and by Thy bounty through which existence hath appeared from the unseen and the seen, to assist whosoever hath turned toward Thee to be steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH05269

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Self, to make me firm and steadfast in this Cause whereby the tribes of the earth have been shaken. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest and in Thy grasp is the kingdom of all things.   BH05266

I beseech Thee, O Ocean of Bounty, by Thy Most Great Signs, to enable me and Thy loved ones to stand firm with supreme steadfastness, and ordain for me and for them that which befitteth the heaven of Thy grace and the sun of Thy mercy.  BH03543

I beseech Thee by this Promised One, through Whom Thou hast fulfilled Thy promise, manifested Thy sovereignty, and revealed that which lay hidden in Thy knowledge, to aid me to serve Thy Cause and to arise in service to Thy loved ones.   BH04699

Glory be unto Thee, O my God, my Lord, my Helper and my Strengthener! I beseech Thee by those who were martyred in Thy path and gave up their spirits in Thy good-pleasure, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy service.   BH04074

My Lord! I am Thy servant, and the son of Thy servant, and the son of Thy handmaiden. I beseech Thee by Thy mysteries which lie hidden within Thy knowledge, that Thou make me steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise amongst Thy servants.  BH03532

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having made Thyself known unto me, shown me Thy horizon, and remembered me in Thy prison. I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, a servant unto Thy Countenance, and one gazing upon Thy face.   BH07578

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Him Who sacrificed Himself for the exaltation of Thy Word and the manifestation of Thy Cause, to make me in all conditions hold fast unto the cord of Thy bounty and cling to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy.  BH04503

I beseech Thee by the splendors of the lights of the Sun of Thy Manifestation and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy utterance, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy love, turned toward Thy horizon, and speaking in Thy remembrance  BH08332

Glory be to Thee, O my Lord, my God, my Goal and my Beloved! I beseech Thee by the Manifestation of Thyself, the Dayspring of Thy verses and the Source of Thy power, to make this servant of Thine steadfast in Thy love and Thy Cause.  BH05175

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and by the revelations of the lights of the Dayspring of Thy Manifestation in the kingdom of creation, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and fluent in Thy praise amidst Thy creatures   BH10459

I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the stars of the heaven of Thy utterance to aid me in Thy remembrance and praise in such wise that neither the might of the world nor the tumult of the nations shall deter me.   BH05754

Glory be unto Thee, O God of existence and Lord of the seen and unseen! I beseech Thee by the Word whereby Thou hast distinguished between Thy loved ones and Thine enemies, to make me steadfast in Thy love and speaking in Thy praise.   BH06995

Therefore, O my God, since his hands are cut off from the mantle of Thy nearness and reunion with Thee, let not the cord of Thy loving-kindness and the handle of Thy favors be cut off from his heart... Then make his feet firm upon the path   BH09917

O Lord! Thou seest me clinging to Thee and to that which hath appeared from Thee. I beseech Thee to assist me in all conditions to remember Thee and to remember those who have circled round Thy Most Great Cause and Thy Mighty Announcement.   BH09171

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of the ocean of Thy knowledge to confirm me in such steadfastness as shall not be prevented by the doubts of the learned nor the signs of the divines nor the power of rulers   BH08374

O my Lord! Confirm me to serve Thy beloved and to be submissive and humble before Thy chosen ones. Make me to know the meaning of Thy Words and inform me of the mysteries of Thy signs. Place me in the shadow of the standard of Thy Testament  AB04937

My God, my God! Strengthen the hearts of Thy loved ones in such wise that the hosts of the heedless and the denial of the opposers shall not weaken them. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Supreme over all who are in the heavens and the earth.  BH02853

O my God! O my God! These are servants who have hastened to the shade of the tree of Thy Covenant...They have stood firm in Thy Cause, remained steadfast in Thy love, and sprouted from the rain of Thy clouds and the outpouring of Thy heaven.   AB01374

Glory be unto Thee, O my God and the God of all, the Sender of the Messengers and the Revealer of the Books! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance that Thou disappoint me not from steadfastness and from that which is with Thee.   BH08192

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause, such that neither the masses and multitudes would prevent me, nor the oppression of the aggressors and the tyranny of every sinful transgressor would frighten me.  BH06221

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy luminous countenance and by the denizens of the Most Exalted Paradise to ordain for me that which shall make me steadfast in Thy service, Thy remembrance, and Thy praise amongst Thy creatures.  BH00500

O Lord! Aid us to remember and praise Thee and to do as Thou hast commanded us in Thy Tablets... I beseech Thee to assist us in that which Thou hast commanded us outwardly in Thy Book; then ordain for us what befitteth our relationship to Thee.   BH04791

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having awakened me through the breathings of Thy Revelation, made known to me Thy ancient bounty, and shown me Thy wondrous generosity. I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love.  BH07994

O my God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me, and made me known to Thee, and caused me to hearken unto Thy call whereby the hearts of Thy sincere servants and those who have recognized Thy oneness among Thy creation were attracted.   BH00506

Praise be unto Thee for having bestowed Thy favor upon this servant of Thine and guided him to the straight path, and made firm the foundation, and granted success in remaining steadfast on a Day when the pillars of all created things were shaken  AB09016

I beseech Thee to make me one of those steadfast handmaidens whom the affairs of creation have not prevented from turning unto Thee. Verily, Thou art the All-Hearing, the Answerer of prayers. Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful.   BH04315

O God of the world! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name to make me in all conditions one who uttereth Thy praise, who taketh refuge in Thy presence, who seeketh protection at Thy threshold, who remaineth firm in Thy love and steadfast in Thy Cause   BH08411

My God! Aid him to remain steadfast with perfect and complete firmness, preserve him in Thy most secure sanctuary, and facilitate for him that which he loveth and with which he is well-pleased. Verily, Thou art the Guardian of the people of fidelity.  AB07786

O Lord! Thou seest one of Thy handmaidens and another handmaiden of Thine who have turned unto Thee and desired to carry out what Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book. Ordain for her that which will make her steadfast in Thy love, then accept her deed.   BH05773

O Lord! I heard Thy call and turned toward Thee. I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy verses, the Recipient of Thy Revelation, and the Source of Thy Command, to make me steadfast in Thy love, speaking forth Thy praise, and serving Thy chosen ones.   BH08951

O God of kings and the Merciful One to the servants and the Ruler of the Kingdom! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the rains were caused to fall and the seas to surge and the trees to speak, that Thou assist me to be steadfast in this Cause   BH07246

Therefore I beseech Thee, O Desire of the world, by this standing and sitting, that Thou make me steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise in such wise that the hosts of Thine enemies and the might of those who have denied Thy signs shall not frighten me.   BH06198

I beseech Thee by the oceans of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy bounty and the fruits of the Tree beyond which there is no passing and the traces of Thy Most Exalted Pen, to make me steadfast in Thy love, speaking forth Thy Name and turning unto Thy Face.  BH06263

I beseech Thee, by the appearance of divine knowledge and by the waves of the ocean of Thine utterance, to ordain that I may, in all conditions, be moved to celebrate Thy praise and arise to serve Thy Cause with the wisdom Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.  BH07927

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name through which the limbs of all names trembled and earthquakes seized all who dwell in the realm of creation, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love and speaking forth Thy praise amidst Thy creatures   BH06280

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the manifestations of Thy power and the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, speaking forth Thy praise and remembrance, and arising to serve Thy Cause.   BH04797

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Great Name through which Thou hast opened the gates of bounty unto all nations, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, and immovable in Thy mighty Message and ancient Decree.   BH06796

I beseech Thee by the standards of Thy power and the banners of Thy guidance, by the repositories of Thy revelation and the dawning-places of Thy inspiration, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy service, and speaking in Thy remembrance and praise  BH06134

O my Lord! Thou seest me confessing to that which the Tongue of Thy Grandeur hath spoken in the Kingdom of Thine utterance. Strengthen, O my God, my heart and my limbs such that neither the power of the mighty nor the doubts of the learned may weaken them.   BH02351

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having admitted me into the seat of the throne of Thy grandeur and for having revealed Thyself unto me through the lights of Thy countenance. I beseech Thee by Thy Self to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love  BH04294

I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty which hath encompassed the world and by Thy Most Great Name whereby Thou hast subdued the nations to ordain for me steadfastness in Thy remembrance and praise and in acting according to what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.   BH04179

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy love and to act according to what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book. Verily Thou art powerful over what Thou willest and in Thy grasp are the reins of creation.  BH05456

I beseech Thee, O Thou the Possessor of existence and the Educator of the seen and the unseen, to make me one of those who have aided Thy Cause and have arisen to serve Thee. Then ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones and Thy chosen ones.   BH03538

to make me steadfast in Thy love and holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty. My Lord! Ordain for me of Thy generosity and munificence that which will make me independent of all else save Thee, and mighty among Thy creatures, and firm and immovable in Thy Cause.  BH04367

I beseech Thee by Thy generosity which hath encompassed all things, and by Thy Command whereby the Trump was sounded and those in the graves were raised, to make me steadfast in Thee and in Thy signs, and to cause me to cling to the hem of Thy mercy and bounty.   BH02092

O my Lord! Make me steadfast, then, in Thy love and establish me in Thy Cause in such wise that should Thy servants who are veiled by learning from Thy Self-Subsisting Name oppose me, their opposition to Thee and their turning away from Thee would not disturb me   BH02902

I beseech Thee by the movement of Thy Pen, whereby Thou hast stirred all created things, and by the light of Thy countenance, whereby Thou hast illumined the horizons, to make me steadfast and firm in Thy Cause in such wise that nothing whatsoever shall prevent me.  BH01219

O my God, my Lord, my Support, my Beloved, and my Hope! I beseech Thee by Thy tender mercies which have preceded all created things and by Thy mercy which hath encompassed all contingent beings, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm and immovable in Thy love.   BH05052

I beseech Thee by the breathings of Thy Revelation and the manifestations of Thy sovereignty in Thy lands to send down upon me from the heaven of Thy bounty and generosity that which will make me steadfast in Thy love, firm in Thy service, and vocal in Thy praise.   BH04255

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having sent down unto me the proof and shown me the way. I beseech Thee by the kingdom of Thy utterance and the mysteries of Thy dominion to make me steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise, and firm in the service of Thy Cause.   BH06150

I beseech Thee by the Ark of Thy Cause which sailed upon the sea of names through Thy will and power, to aid Thy male and female servants who have aimed for the ultimate goal and the supreme height to remain steadfast in Thy love and in the exaltation of Thy Cause.   BH03772

O Lord! Thou seest them clinging to the cord of Thy obedience and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy mercy. They have turned with their all unto Thee and desire to act according to what Thou hast commanded them in Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets and Thy Books   BH04756

I beseech Thee... to ordain for me from the ocean of Thy bounty that which befitteth Thy generosity, then send down upon me from the heaven of Thy grace that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause and regardful in all conditions of the horizon of Thy good-pleasure   BH10042

O my Lord, I am he who hath turned his face toward the court of Thy grace and bounties. Therefore, O my God, deprive me not of what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, and make me steadfast in the Cause from which the feet of every rejected idolater have slipped.   BH04648

O Lord! Make easy for him that which is difficult, enlighten his conscience, ordain for him abundant good, and make firm his footsteps on the straight path, attracted to the manifest light, mindful of Thy wondrous remembrance, and supplicating to Thy exalted Kingdom.   AB07161

O Thou through Whose Name the horizon of praise was illumined and by Whose Call the people of creation were stirred to motion, ordain that I may stand firm in Thy service, utter Thy remembrance, serve Thy Cause, and act according to what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.   BH05843

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the sun of Thy grace hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy Revelation and the ocean of Thy bounty hath surged amongst Thy creatures, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in the service of them who love Thee   BH04928

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne, by the ordinances of Thy Book, by the fragrances of Thy verses and by the manifestations of Thy grandeur, to make me in all conditions to turn toward Thy most exalted horizon, to speak Thy praise, O Lord of all names   BH07739

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Light which shone forth before the creation of the sun and its radiance, and by Thy Mercy which hath preceded the earth and the heaven and all that is therein, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm and immovable in Thy Cause.   BH08591

My God, my God! Thou seest the Wronged One among His enemies. I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty that hath subdued the names, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, and speaking in Thy praise, and arising to serve Thy loved ones. Then open before my face the door of Thy mercy.   BH04554

O Lord! I am the poor one, and within Thy grasp are the reins of grace and bounty. Ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that the howling of wolves will not prevent me from turning toward Thee, O Lord of Lords!   BH04320

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty that hath encompassed all existence, both unseen and visible, and by Thy Name through which was manifested that which lay hidden in Thy knowledge and inscribed in Thy tablets, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause   BH04639

I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy chosen ones to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that names shall not hold me back from Thy Most Great Name, nor shall the might of the oppressors prevent me from turning to Thee and drawing near to the gate of Thy bounty.  BH06378

I beseech Thee, O Beloved of the worlds and Lord of the nations, by Thy Name through which the spirit of life was breathed into all possibility, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that the imaginings of the idolaters among Thy creatures shall not hinder me.  BH01735

Hold fast to the robe of thy Lord and say: O God of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen! I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in the Cause whereby the feet of the learned have slipped, save those whom Thou didst rescue through Thy grace that overshadoweth the worlds.   BH08910

O Lord! Ordain for us what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, then grant us the Kawthar of steadfastness in this Cause wherein the feet of Thy creatures have slipped and the hearts of those in Thy realms were shaken, save those who dwelt beneath the canopies of Thy mercy.   BH01349

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to recognize the Dayspring of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy most beautiful names amidst all peoples. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name to assist me under all conditions to remain steadfast in this mighty Cause   BH04342

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Announcement and Thy Straight Path to ordain for me that which shall protect me from the oppression of the oppressors and the cawing of the croakers who have broken Thy covenant and Thy testament and have disbelieved in Thy signs.  BH00663

I beseech Thee, O Creator of existence, to make me steadfast upon Thy extended path, then cause me to speak Thy praise amongst the people of Thy kingdom in such wise that the veils of those who have disbelieved in Thee, O my Lord, the Mighty, the All-Loving, shall not hinder me.   BH10645

"O my Lord! ...I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word through which the earth was cleft asunder and the heaven was rent apart, to ordain for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause, holding fast to Thy cord and clinging to the hem of Thy robe."   BH05183

O peerless God! Grant me shelter beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy providence, and bestow upon me a dwelling and refuge in the shadow of the palm tree of hope. Sweeten my taste with the delicate, fresh-plucked fruit, and grant me firmness and steadfastness in Thy mighty Cause.  AB09805

I beseech You...to ordain for me that which will keep me steadfast in Your remembrance and praise, such that the oppression of any oppressor and the clamor of those who have disbelieved in You and denied Your proof and evidence and turned away from meeting You will not prevent me.  BH05896

O my God and the God of names and the Creator of earth and heaven! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the limbs of all things trembled, to make me steadfast in Thy love and looking toward Thy horizon and speaking forth Thy praise and holding fast unto the cord of Thy Cause.   BH02892

I beseech Thee, O Fashioner of the world and Educator of the nations, Who art seated upon Thy most great throne, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the books of the world shall mislead me nor the doubts of the nations cause me to slip.  BH02822

Glory be unto Thee, O King of Kings and the Merciful unto all who are possessed of kingship! I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst subdue the world and summon the nations, to confirm me in steadfastness in Thy Cause and in holding fast unto the cord of Thy love.  BH11614

O Lord! Make my feet steadfast in Thy Cause, then make mine eyes expectant for the wonders of Thy care and mine ears attentive to the melodies of Thy glorious favors. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest and Thou hast ever been the Encompasser of all things.   BH01057

O Thou through Whose Name the entire creation hath been subdued! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy mighty signs to assist me and Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that the tablets of fire shall not prevent them from beholding the lights of Thy countenance.   BH04593

Glorified art Thou, O my God! ... I beseech Thee by the tears of the sincere ones and the sighs of them that are nigh unto Thee in their separation from Thee, to aid me to stand firm with such steadfastness as cannot be shaken by the doubts of the doubters nor the cawing of the crows   BH02337

O Lord! Thou seest the evanescent one seeking the door of Thy mercy, and the thirsty one turning toward the ocean of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee not to withhold from him the wondrous tokens of Thy generosity, grace and favors. Accept then from him that which he hath desired in Thy path.  BH08260

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the Dayspring of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thy Cause and the Manifestation of Thy Self. I beseech Thee by the movement of Thy Most Exalted Pen and by Thy Finger, O Lord of all beings, to make me steadfast in this Cause  BH03852

O Lord! I have laid hold on the cord of Thy glory and clung to the hem of Thy might. Preserve me beneath the shadow of the Tree of Thy Cause and give me to drink, at every moment, the choice wine of Thy bestowals and favors, that I may remain steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause   BH02273

Deprive us not, O our God, of the fragrances of Thy sanctity, then make us steadfast in Thy Cause, establish for us a truthful station with Thee, and grant us from Thy presence mercy, and join us with those servants of Thine who soar on the wings of glory in the atmosphere of holiness.   BH01410

O Lord! Make their hearts steadfast in Thy love amidst humanity, illumine their eyes with witnessing Thy effulgent lights from the highest horizon, perpetuate these blessings upon them, and deprive them not of that which Thou hast ordained for pure souls, the angels of the exalted sphere.   AB01542

"My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee. I beseech Thee to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee. And I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and in steadfastness in Thy Most Great Cause and Thy Mighty News."   BH04473

I beseech Thee, O Creator of the heavens, by the ocean of Thy names and by Thy Name at Whose manifestation the dwellers of the earthly and heavenly kingdoms did prostrate themselves, to preserve me and strengthen me to remain steadfast in Thy Cause, the most mighty, ancient and all-glorious.  BH03132

I beseech Thee by the fragrances of Thy days and the manifestations of Thy greatness in Thy lands to assist them that have turned toward the Most Great Steadfastness, that the doubts of the factions and the intimations of those who have denied the Beginning and the Return may not deter them.   BH09895

O my God, my Beloved, and my Purpose! Thou seest me acknowledging Thy unity and confessing Thy grandeur and sovereignty. I testify that steadfastness cannot be established except through Thy might and power, and the heart cannot find tranquility save through Thy loving-kindness and grace.   BH05968

Keep me firm and steadfast in Your Covenant and Pact and make me unwavering in Your Testament and Faith, for the winds of test are severe and the tempest of trial raises dust. O God, make me steadfast! O God, make me firmly rooted! O God, preserve and protect me, and make me favored and secure!   AB02246

"O Lord! Verily Thy servant was standing before the door of Thy bounty and awaiting the wonders of Thy generosity. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy mercy and the splendors of the sun of Thy grace to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy remembrance and the service of Thy Cause."  BH05223

My God, my God! I have turned toward Thee, holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clinging to the hem of Thy generosity. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bestowals and by the Dawning-places of Thy revelation and inspiration, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH04118

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the breezes of Thy Revelation, the traces of Thy Pen, the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, the manifestations of Thy power, Thy most great signs, and the rustling of the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, to strengthen me in steadfastness in Thy Cause   BH03167

My God, my God! Thou seest me taking refuge in Thy mighty shelter, seeking asylum in Thy lofty sanctuary, clinging to Thy strong pillar, and beseeching Thy glorious Kingdom to ordain for Thy servants beautiful patience in facing calamities, trials, afflictions and tribulations in Thy straight path.   AB04236

O my God! Illumine the eyes of hearts with the light of Thy countenance, O Beloved, then make them steadfast in Thy Cause - verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Forgiving - and firm in such wise that the cawing of those who claim what hath not been ordained for them in the Book will not disturb them.   BH10043

I entreat Thee, O Thou Who art the Ruler of the kingdoms of creation and the Author of all names, to write down my name with the names of them who, from eternity, have circled round the Tabernacle of Thy majesty, and clung to the hem of Thy loving-kindness, and held fast the cord of Thy tender mercy.  BH07782

O God of Names and Creator of Heaven! We beseech Thee to grant us steadfastness in Thy Cause and firmness and constancy in Thy Mighty Message, whereby the limbs of the nations have trembled and the pillars of the world have quaked, save those rescued by the hand of Thy grace and the arm of Thy power.   BH00356

I beseech Thee, O King of Kings and Merciful Lord of all who are possessed, by Thy Command through which Thou hast subdued the kingdom of earth and heaven, to assist them to achieve the Most Great Steadfastness, whereby nothing in all the world of creation shall prevent them from drawing nigh unto Thee.   BH09500

I beseech Thee by the rivers of Thy most exalted Paradise, and the manifestations of Thy favor in the supreme Heaven, and by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the revelations of the Day-Star of Thy generosity, to make this handmaiden of Thine steadfast in Thy Cause and speaking Thy praise and glorification.  BH04959

O Baha'o'llah! This is Abdul-Baha! Confirm Abdul-Baha in Thy Threshold! Strengthen him in loyalty to Thee! Make him self-sacrificing! Make him homeless, and without rest! Fill his heart with Thy love, so he will forget all else save Thee,--seeking no other comfort, grace, health or life, and sacrificing all for Thee!   ABU0436

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the limbs of all names trembled and the foundations of earth and heaven were shaken, to make me steadfast in Thy service and turned toward Thy horizon. O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy bounty to give me to drink, from Thy generous and gracious hands, the Kawthar of steadfastness.   BH07790

I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the lights of the suns of the heaven of Thy wisdom, and by the hands of Thy power and the manifestations of Thy sovereignty, to make me in all conditions a servant of Thy Cause, one who speaks of Thy remembrance and praise, and who stands firm in Thy path   BH06376

My God, my God! Strengthen the hearts of Thy loved ones lest the opposers prevent them from turning to the court of Thy might and the carpet of Thy bounty. O Lord! Aid Thy loved ones to hold fast to the cord of Thy grace and to detach themselves from all else besides Thee. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the All-Choosing.   BH01493

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of Thy Book and the dawning-places of Thy revelation and the daysprings of Thy names, that Thou aid me to be steadfast in Thy Cause whereby the feet of the learned and the mystics have slipped save those whom the hand of Thy grace and favor hath delivered.   BH05217

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word through which Thou didst create earth and heaven, and by Thy Prophets and Messengers, and by the lights of the dawn of Thy Manifestation, to aid me to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book and to keep me from what Thou hast forbidden through Thy wisdom and Thy will.  BH07181

O Lord of nations and Manifest One through the Most Great Name! I beseech Thee by the Most Exalted Word, which Thou hast made the conclusive utterance in the kingdom of creation, to render me in all conditions one who gazeth toward Thy horizon, who standeth firm, who speaketh in Thy remembrance and in service to Thy Cause.  BH03349

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the dead were raised up, to withhold me not from the ocean of Thy grace and bounty, and leave me not to myself in Thy days. Then make me steadfast in Thy love in such wise that the veils of them that have disbelieved and the allusions of the heedless keep me not back.   BH05058

Ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will assist me to remain steadfast in Thy Cause and to mention Thee among Thy servants with wisdom and utterance. O my Lord! Thou seest Thy servant clinging to the cord of Thy grace and holding fast to the hem of Thy mercy. Ordain for him every good that was in Thy Book.  BH11882

O my Lord! Deal with me according to Thy grace and bounty, then protect me from those who have denied Thy Manifestation and turned away from Thy Beauty. Make me then steadfast in Thy love in such wise that the winds that blow from the hearts of Thy heedless servants and the polytheists among Thy creatures shall not move me.   BH03841

I entreat Thee by the tokens of Thine everlasting assistance and by the confirmations of Thine incomparable majesty to grant that I may remain firm and fast in manifesting absolute servitude at the portals of Thy divine unity and in showing forth complete evanescence before the revelation of a wondrous token of Thy oneness.   AB01544

O Lord! These are the guides to Thy Cause, humble at Thy gate, poor in Thy land yet rich through Thy bounty, weak before Thy power yet strong through Thy might. They have remained firm in Thy Covenant, drawn from the effulgence of Thy radiance, discovered Thy traces, drunk from Thy sweet waters, been guided by Thy lights...   AB00580

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning unto Thee, holding fast to Thy cord and clinging to Thy robe. I beseech Thee not to deprive me of what is with Thee, then write down for me the good of this world and the next through Thy grace and favor. Make me then a helper of Thy Cause, standing firm in Thy service and celebrating Thy praise.   BH02787

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy verses, and guided me to Thy path. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and the manifestations of Thy power and the mysteries of Thy knowledge to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause.   BH06873

I beseech Thee...to make me in all conditions to hold fast to Thy cord, to cling to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty, and to be immersed in the depths of the sea of Thy oneness. Then write down for me, O God of Names and Creator of Heaven, that which will make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, and unwavering in Thy path.   BH04947

"I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and King of eternity, by the Most Great Name, to make me in all conditions hold fast to Thy cord and cling to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty and generosity, speaking Thy praise among Thy servants such that neither the might of the oppressors nor the power of the aggressive ones may weaken me."   BH02487

I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers, and by Him through Whom Thou hast adorned the celestial spheres and through Whom the breezes of revelation were cut off, to make me in all conditions to hold fast unto Thy cord and cling to the hem of Thy robe, and to stand firm in the service of Thy Cause and be steadfast in Thy love.   BH09098

O my God and the God of all created things, my Sovereign and the Sovereign of all contingent beings, my Creator and the Creator of all in the heavens and the earth! I beseech Thee by Thy signs whereby all things were seized with trembling, to aid me to serve Thy Cause in such wise that the means of earth and heaven shall not hinder me.   BH01202

I beseech Thee by Thy Cause that hath encompassed earth and heaven, by Thy power before the faces of the princes, and by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance in the kingdom of creation, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, arising in Thy service, and speaking Thy praise amongst Thy servants with wisdom and eloquence.   BH00888

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the station which Thou hast made the seat of Thy throne and by the lands which were reddened with the blood of Thy loved ones and by the neck which was adorned with the rope in Thy path, to assist me to such steadfastness as shall not be shaken by the doubts of the heedless ones nor the signs of the barking ones.   BH05499

I beseech Thee, O Lord of earth and heaven and Creator of all things, by Thy Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the nations were stirred up, to ordain for me the good of this world and the next. Then make me steadfast in Thy Cause, O Lord of all being, and firm in Thy service amidst Thy servants, and speaking forth Thy praise in Thy lands.  BH05524

Make me steadfast in Thy love and content with Thy good-pleasure and a helper to Thy Cause. Make me so firm that should all mankind oppose Thee, I would arise by myself to exalt Thy Cause and manifest Thy bounty. Then ordain for me, O my God, what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, and separate me not from Thee in the worlds of Thy Cause.  BH07653

O Lord! O Cleaver of the dawn, Quickener of spirits, and Creator of forms! All doors are closed to me save the door of Your mercy, and all paths are cut off except the path of Your bounty... Rather, I beseech You with all humility and supplication: Increase, O my God, my tribulation in Your path, and ordain for me every affliction in Your love   AB00976

I am a servant who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and I am assured of Thy oneness and do testify to Thy singleness. Yet at times doubts seize me and return me to the abode of the doubtful ones, and at times the breaths of Thy name, the All-Merciful, take hold of me and cause me to soar in the atmosphere of them that are nigh unto Thee.   BH06689

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy utterance and for having sent down to me that which has made my soul content with Thy decree. O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I hold fast to the cord of Thy good-pleasure and the hem of Thy decree, and I glory in this among Thy servants.  BH02286

I beseech Thee by the cries of those near unto Thee in their separation from Thee, and the lamentations of the sincere ones in Thy days, and by the ocean of Thy verses and the dawning-place of Thy revelation and inspiration, to strengthen me in such steadfastness as shall not be shaken by the hosts of the heedless nor the ranks of the oppressors.   BH00561

O my God and my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, and by Thy Cause, and by Thy might, and by Thy power, and by Thy sovereignty, and by Thy greatness, and by Thy dominion, and by Thy majesty, that Thou aid me to remain steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that neither the oppression of the wicked ones nor the clamor of the enemies shall hold me back.   BH10094

My God, my God! Thou seest us in the hands of the heedless and the transgressors. We beseech Thee to assist us to hold fast unto that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book and unto deeds from which the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure may be wafted. Thou knowest that we desire naught save trustworthiness and religiousness and truthfulness and purity.   BH01086

I beseech Thee once again, O Thou the Desire of the world and the Adored One of the nations, by Thy Most Great Name, the Most Glorious, to ordain for me the most great steadfastness whereby neither the oppression of Thy servants nor the tyranny of those who have disbelieved in Thy days and turned away from the horizon of Thy Revelation shall prevent me.   BH04805

O my God and the Possessor of my heart! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the fire of love and affection was kindled amongst Thy servants, to make me enabled to serve Thee, speaking Thy praise, steadfast in Thy Cause, turning with my heart to the ocean of Thy good-pleasure, and soaring on the wings of detachment in the atmosphere of Thy will.  BH04678

"O Lord of the Throne on high and of earth below, Lord of the world to come and of the world that now is! We beseech Thee by Thy Most Beautiful Names and by the lights of Thy countenance from the Most Exalted Horizon that Thou assist us to remain steadfast in Thy Cause and in Thy love and enable us to act according to what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book."   BH02837

O Lord! Thou seest the poor one hath sought the ultimate goal and the wronged one the manifestations of Thy justice, O Lord of all being and Sovereign of the throne on high and of the dust below. I beseech Thee to ordain for me that which shall make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love and acting according to what Thou hast sent down in Thy Books.   BH00573

Therefore I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy First Light and by Thy Last Manifestation, that Thou make this servant, who hath stood at the door of Thy might and prostrated himself in the dust in submission to Thy command, steadfast in Thy love, yielding to Thy sovereignty, turning toward the sanctuary of Thy beauty, and consecrated to the Ka'bah of Thy glory.   BH05091

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the fragrance of Thy raiment and the spot whereon Thy feet have trod, and by the horizon from which the Day-Star of Thy Revelation hath shone forth, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the cities and regions, to aid me under all conditions to remember Thee and to praise Thee, and to remain steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH05135

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and holding fast unto Thy cord. I beseech Thee by the Word which Thou hast made as a fire unto the polytheists and a light unto the monotheists, and by Thy power which hath encompassed all existence, both seen and unseen, to aid me to perform such deeds as shall diffuse the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure.  BH00299

O Lutfullah! God willing, may you be occupied with the remembrance of God, exalted be His glory, throughout the nights and days, in such wise that the affairs of the world shall not make you heedless of the Most Great Cause... My God! I beseech Thee by Thy signs and Thy clear tokens to make me in all conditions hold fast unto Thee and gaze toward Thy horizon.   BH08585

O my Lord! Thou knowest and seest that I have taken no helper for myself other than Thee, nor any supporter besides Thee. I beseech Thee, O Light of the world, by Thy Most Great Name through which the limbs of the nations trembled, to ordain for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and cause me to enter the precincts of Thy glory.  BH03258

Then inspire them, O my God, with that which will cause them to hold fast in adversity and prosperity unto the cord of Thy loving care and to cling to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent, the Most Great, the All-Compelling, the Most Exalted, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Praise be unto Thee, for verily Thou art the Mighty, the Great.  BH06413

O my Lord! Thy handmaiden hath stood before the door of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee not to deprive her, through Thy grace and favor, of that which she seeketh, for through Thy loving-kindness I have recognized the greatness and sovereignty of Thy Cause. O my Lord! I am Thy weak handmaiden who hath sought refuge in Thee, and Thou art the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.   BH09093

"O Lord! Make them Thy greatest signs and Thy manifest banners in the highest heaven, and armies arrayed for the fortress of the Covenant, and a mighty host for the stronghold of the pledge and faithfulness. They shoot the arrows of great steadfastness at the people of hypocrisy and repel the people of violation with the whips of firmness and constancy before all."  AB00882

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Bayan was sent down in Thy remembrance and praise, that Thou protect me beneath the shadow of the cloud of Thy supreme mercy and the canopy of Thy bounty that hath encompassed all things. Then make me steadfast in this Cause which hath caused the denizens of the Kingdom of Names to tremble.  BH09377

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and clinging fast unto Thee. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne, and by the Name through which Thou didst make it the Sovereign of names and didst subdue the earth thereby, and by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and the power of Thy Pen, to make me steadfast and firm in Thy Cause and upright in Thy love.   BH03285

I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and by Thy call whereby the hearts of the Concourse on High were attracted, to make me content with Thy good-pleasure and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. Then ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have cast away the world and offered up their souls in their longing to meet Thee.   BH04348

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Thou seest me clinging to the cord of Thy bounty and holding fast to the hem of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and the effulgences of the Orb of Thy proof to number me with such as were not held back by swords from drawing nigh unto Thee, nor by cannons from turning toward the lights of Thy countenance.   BH10858

I am a servant who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, who hath turned his face toward the countenance of Thy most exalted Beauty, who hath devoted his face to Thy most glorious Kingdom, who hath held fast to the sure handle, who hath clung to the hem of the robe of grandeur, who hath stood firm in Thy resplendent Law, and who hath remained steadfast in Thy mighty Covenant  AB08491

Thine be the glory, O Lord of Names and Creator of earth and heaven! I testify that Thou wast ever powerful and self-subsisting and wilt continue to be as Thou hast been from time immemorial. Nothing can prevent Thy self-subsistence. I beseech Thee by Thy Great Name to make me one who uttereth Thy remembrance and calleth out Thy Name and turneth in all conditions unto Thyself.   BH03899

O my God and my Beloved! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the signs and reveal the clear evidences, to aid me to act according to Thy good-pleasure and to avoid that which Thou hast forbidden in Thy Book. Then ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the next, for verily I know not anything and Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH08448

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to turn toward Thee when most of Thy creatures turned away from Thee. O my Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and clinging to Thy cord. Ordain for me that which befitteth the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy bestowal. Verily Thou art the Compassionate, the Generous. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH06808

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which earthquakes seized all the tribes of the earth save him who cast away all else behind him and made it the Sovereign of Names between earth and heaven, that Thou make me steadfast in Thy Cause, acknowledging Thy oneness and confessing Thy singleness, and clinging in all conditions to the hem of Thy pardon and favors.   BH02469

I beseech Thee, by Thy name through which Thou turnest restlessness into tranquillity, fear into confidence, weakness into strength, and abasement into glory, that Thou of Thy grace wilt aid me and Thy servants to exalt Thy name, to deliver Thy Message, and to proclaim Thy Cause, in such wise that we may remain unmoved by either the assaults of the transgressors or the wrath of the infidels.   BH06429

I beseech Thee by Thy power that hath encompassed all created things, and by Thy Command that hath surrounded all contingent beings, and by Thy Name whereby every mouldering bone was quickened and every wise decree was manifested, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love, in such wise that the swords of the world shall not withhold me from drawing nigh unto Thy Most Great Name.   BH01259

I beseech Thee by Thy radiant and manifest light, and by Thy firm and mighty command, and by the places which were honored by Thy footsteps and the houses wherein arose Thy sighs, to make me steadfast, patient, speaking and standing firm in Thy days upon Thy Cause. Then make me unwavering in Thy love such that the books of the people and whatsoever they possess shall not prevent me from this Book   BH05815

O my Lord and my Hope! Help Thou Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy mighty Covenant, to remain faithful to Thy manifest Cause, and to carry out the commandments Thou didst set down for them in Thy Book of Splendours; that they may become banners of guidance and lamps of the Company above, wellsprings of Thine infinite wisdom, and stars that lead aright, as they shine down from the supernal sky.  AB00065

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the choice wine of Thy Most Glorious Name whereby all on earth and in heaven were intoxicated, and by the pearls hidden in the shells of the ocean of Thy bounty, and by the lights shining and blazing from the horizon of the heaven of Thy utterance, to make this handmaiden of Thine in all conditions attracted to Thy verses, speaking Thy praise and arising to serve Thee.  BH03064

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to hear Thy most sweet call which was raised from Thy most exalted horizon, and for having made me recognize the ocean of Thy verses and the sun of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy generosity and the rain-clouds of Thy grace to assist me to remain steadfast in Thy love. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.  BH00697

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the wafting of the breezes of Thy grace over all created things, and by the manifestation of Thy Most Great Name upon the Daysprings of Thy names and attributes, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and detached from Thine enemies. Then ordain for me, through the Pen of Destiny, union with Thee and the attainment of Thy presence in every world of Thy worlds.  BH11783

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having illumined mine eyes with the lights of Thy utterance and honored mine ears with hearkening to Thy call and strengthened my hands to take hold of Thy Book and adorned my heart with the radiance of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and vocal in Thy praise. Verily Thou art the All-Powerful, the Almighty, and worthy to grant this prayer.  BH08461

My God, my God! This is Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden who desireth to drink the choice wine of revelation from the hands of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the fire of Thy love whereby all created things were set ablaze, to enable me to turn wholly unto Thee, detached from all else but Thee. O my Lord! Aid me to stand firm in Thy Cause, then write me down among Thy servants who believe in Thy unity.   BH00547

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy path and caused me to hear Thy call in Thy days. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the mysteries of Thy Book to aid me in that which will cause the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure to be diffused. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent over what Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Bountiful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH04956

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the fountains of Thy wisdom gushed forth amongst Thy creatures, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, speaking Thy praise and remembrance, and standing firm in Thy service in such wise that neither the clamor of the divines nor the commotion of the wicked may deter me. Then ordain for me, O my God, that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.   BH07083

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy knowledge and for causing me to hear Thy call and for making known to me that which most of Thy creatures have turned away from. I beseech Thee by the breezes of Thy Revelation and the manifestations of Thy power and the evidences of Thy sovereignty to make me in all conditions turned toward Thee and detached from Thine enemies."  BH06230

We beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Book and the fruits of the Tree of Thy utterance, and by the waves of the ocean of Thy Most Great Name, and by the lights of the morn of Thy Revelation, O Lord of Eternity, to make us steadfast in Thee and in that which hath appeared from Thee. O Lord! Leave us not to ourselves. Take the hands of Thy servants with the hands of Thy power, then preserve them from Thine enemies.   BH01311

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst send down the Sad that was mentioned in the Gospel, and through which was revealed that which was promised in Thy Books, Thy Tablets, Thy Scriptures and Thy Psalms, to make each one of Thy loved ones steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love, in such wise that they shall behold naught save Thy good-pleasure and whatsoever Thou hast ordained for them through Thy decree.  BH09557

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made clear unto me Thy path, and revealed unto me Thy proof, and guided me unto Thy testimony, and given me to drink from the cup of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to make me of those whom the world hath not kept back from turning toward Thy most exalted horizon, and whom the ornaments of earth have not prevented from drawing nigh unto Thee   BH05750

May he remain unshaken by the tempests of trials and unperturbed by the storms of tribulation, becoming as a mountain firmly established in Thy Cause and as a tree firmly rooted in the garden of Thy knowledge, and as a lamp brightly shining with the light of Thy love. O Lord! Assist him in all circumstances and conditions, protect him from the wrath of the people of error, and aid him with hosts from the Supreme Concourse.  AB03894

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having graciously bestowed upon me through Thy bounty and generosity, and guided me to Thy Kingdom, and given me to drink from the cup of Thy guidance, and sheltered me beneath the tree of Thy oneness. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, verily Thou art the All-Merciful. O my God, make me steadfast in Thy Covenant and cause me to be firm in Thy love, and deliver me from every severe test.  AB09681

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Fire through which Thou didst manifest Thyself on the Mount of Knowledge unto the son of Imran, and by Thy Command whereby Thou didst subdue both men and lands, to aid me to remember Thee and serve Thy Cause in such wise that the clamor of the people of Thy kingdom and the opposition of Thy creation shall not hinder me. Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Strong, the All-Conquering, the Almighty.   BH05867

O my Lord! Thou seest my turning towards Thy horizon and my orientation towards the lights of Thy countenance. I beseech Thee not to withhold from me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, whom neither the swords of the enemies could prevent from turning to Thy Most Exalted Horizon, nor the clamor of the divines from Thy mention, O Thou Who art the King of earth and heaven, and Lord of the Hereafter and of the former days.   BH01083

"My God, my God! I testify that Thy proof hath encompassed all things, and Thy evidence and Thy testimony have appeared, and the ocean of Thy knowledge hath surged, and the sun of Thy wisdom hath shone forth. I beseech Thee by the hidden mysteries in Thy Books to assist this servant of Thine to be steadfast in Thy love in such wise that neither the clamor of Thy servants nor the whisperings of the divines of Thy land shall prevent him."  BH03939

O my Lord! Aid me to be so steadfast that the veils of the ignorant ones and the allusions of the clamorous ones shall not prevent me. O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I beseech Thee by Thy bounty that hath encompassed existence and by the light of Thy Cause whereby hearts and minds have been illumined, to make me steadfast in Thy love, firm in Thy Cause, established in Thy praise and unwavering in Thy remembrance.   BH04380

When thou attainest unto My Tablet and that which hath been revealed from My Most Exalted Pen, say: Praise be unto Thee, O Creator of the heavens and Possessor of all names! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause and to ordain for me that which shall profit me in Thy worlds. Thou art, verily, the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Ordainer, the All-Wise.  BH11910

O my God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward the ocean of Thy bounty, voicing Thy praise, and seeking the vast sea of Thy mercy which surgeth through Thy Name. I beseech Thee, O Thou the Goal of the world and the Best-Beloved of nations, by the Tree of Divine Utterance which speaketh before the faces of all religions, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, and speaking that by which the hearts of Thy loved ones are attracted.  BH10243

"My God, my God! Thou seest Thy servant standing before the door of Thy grace, asking of Thee that which will draw him nigh unto Thee in all conditions. O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy wisdom and the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that the doubts of them that have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs will not shake me. Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the Almighty."   BH00353

O Abbas! Say: Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to hold fast to Thy sure handle and to cling to the hem of Thy garment. I beseech Thee by Thy greatness and Thy sovereignty, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge, to make me so steadfast in Thy love that neither the doubts of the hypocrites may hinder me from drawing nigh unto Thee, nor the whisperings of the froward keep me back from turning to the lights of Thy countenance.   BH00571

O my God! O my God! These are servants whom no blame of any blamer hath deterred, no oppressor's power hath prevented, no veils of the heedless have kept from gazing upon Thee and sacrificing their spirits before Thee and placing their trust in Thee. Rather, whenever the fires of torment blazed fiercer, they found them as sweet water in Thy path, and whenever the winds of tests blew more severely, they increased in steadfastness and firmness in Thy Cause.   AB00361

O my Lord! Wilt Thou deny me after having called me, and keep me far after having drawn me nigh, and render me deprived after having taught me the scrolls of Thy bounty and the tablets of Thy grace? O my Lord! Thou seest him who standeth at the gate of the city of Thy favor, and him who subsisteth, gazing toward Thy horizon. I beseech Thee to enable me to remember Thee and serve Thee, and to assist me in that which beseemeth Thy Manifestation and Thy days.   BH08431

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and King of eternity, by the fragrant breezes of Thy verses and the lights of the dawn of Thy Manifestation, and by Thy breezes through which the dwellers of the graves arose, and by Thy signs through which was revealed the decree of resurrection and the trump was blown, to make me steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise, firm in Thy love, seeking refuge in Thy presence, and clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy grace.   BH00998

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having remembered me in the prison when I was in the hands of the aggressive ones among Thy creatures. I beseech Thee, O Thou Who controlleth the winds and Who causeth the dawn to break, by Thy command through which Thou didst open the gates of bounty unto all nations, to assist me to serve Thy Cause in such wise that nothing whatsoever may prevent me, O Thou Lord of all beings and Sovereign of the kingdom of names.   BH07011

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward the lights of Thy countenance. I beseech Thee by the outpourings of Thy days and the fragrances of Thy utterance, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the kingdom of earth and heaven, to make me steadfast in Thy love and content with whatsoever hath flowed from the Pen of Thy decree. Enable me, O my God, to serve Thy Cause, then write down for me through Thy bounty and grace that which shall profit me.   BH05056

I implore Thee...to grant that Thy servants may not be kept back from this Divine Law which, at Thy will and according to Thy pleasure, hath branched out from Thy most great Ocean. Do Thou, then, ordain for them that which Thou didst ordain for Thy chosen ones and for the righteous among Thy creatures, whose constancy in Thy Cause the tempests of trials have failed to shake, and whom the tumults of tests have been powerless to hinder from magnifying Thy most exalted Word  BH04033

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me, made me know Thee, caused me to hear, and guided me unto Thy straight path. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause, whereby Thou hast subdued the hearts of the world, and by the waves of the ocean of Thy knowledge, O Lord of eternity, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love, in such wise that the clamor of the people shall not prevent me, nor shall the might of those who have denied the Resurrection terrify me.   BH00881

O My Name! The Wronged One hath made mention of thee with such mention as cannot be equaled by all the bounties of the world and whatsoever is seen therein. Verily thy Lord is the True One, the Faithful. They that have wronged thee and commanded thy imprisonment - these have no portion in the Book of God, the Possessor of this luminous Day. Thou hast attained unto that which none hath attained except whom God, thy Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate, hath willed.  BH00059

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and turning away from all else beside Thee. I beseech Thee by the light whereby the horizons of the heaven of Thy bounty were illumined, and by the fire that hath spoken forth through Thy command and will amongst Thy servants, to assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with. Then ordain for me through Thy generosity and grace that which will make me in all times speak in remembrance of Thee and stand firm in Thy Cause.   BH06370

I beseech Thee, O Lord of eternity and Educator of the nations, to make us of them who have stood firm in Thy Cause, who have been illumined by the horizon of Thy Will, who have drunk the Salsabil of power from the hands of Thy bounty, and who have appeared through Thy Name and Thy sovereignty in such wise that neither the howling of the enemies hath prevented them from Thy mention and praise, nor the opposition of the wicked from turning to the city of Thy Command and the treasury of Thy names.   BH00924

O my God, my God! The Wronged One makes mention of Thee before Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones, and beseeches Thee by the power of Thy Most Exalted Pen, whereby Thou hast subdued the kingdom of names and all who dwell in the realm of creation, to aid us to remain steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise as to make the limbs of them that raise the cry of denial among Thine enemies to quake--they who have cast the Book of God behind their backs, clinging to their own idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH00523

Blessed is the ear that hath attained to hearing it and the eye that hath been honored to behold His verses which hold dominion over all that was and shall be...I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst change fear into tranquility and denial into faith, and by the ocean of Thy utterance and the heaven of Thy bounty, to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and make me steadfast in Thy Cause, such that neither the hosts of the world nor the oppression of the nations shall hold me back.   BH02166

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the idols wailed and the horizons were illumined and the hearts of such servants as cast away the world, turning unto Thee, O Lord of eternity Who hath appeared with the Most Great Name, to ordain for me from the Pen of Thy will that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds. O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I desire from the wonders of Thy bounty that which shall make me steadfast in Thy Cause and detached from all else but Thee.  BH04353

Glorified art Thou, O my God, my Purpose, my Hope and my Beloved! Verily the sweet-scented breezes of Thy Revelation have drawn me to the horizon of Thy favors, and the fragrances of Thine inspiration have turned me toward the realm of Thy bestowals, and the call from the Dayspring of Thy Cause hath awakened me in Thy days. Therefore, O my God, I have turned to Thee with my whole being, detached from all else but Thee, and standing before the door of Thy grace which Thou hast opened to all who are in earth and heaven.   BH00413

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Book and the pearls of the ocean of Thy bounty to make me steadfast in Thy service and vocal in Thy praise. O my Lord! Thou seest the weary one making for the kingdom of Thy utterance, the sightless one for the heaven of Thy knowledge, and the feeble one for the horizon of Thy power. I beseech Thee, O God of the world and Speaker amongst the nations, by Thy grace and Thy hosts, and by Thy might and Thy grandeur, to make me in all conditions firm in Thy Cause and steadfast in Thy love.   BH05013

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned with my whole being unto Thee. I beseech Thee by the breath of Thy Revelation, and by the Word wherewith Thou didst quicken Thy servants, and by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy bounty, to make me in all conditions one who maketh mention of Thee and calleth out Thy Name and standeth firm in the service of Thy Cause. Verily Thou art powerful to do what Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Merciful, the All-Bountiful.   BH06106

I beseech Thee by the leaves of the Tree of Thy knowledge, and the fruits of the Tree of Thine utterance, and the cooing of the doves of Thy remembrance in Thy lands, and the warbling of the nightingales of Thy love in Thy dominion, to assist Thy loved ones to stand firm in Thy Cause, to hold fast to the cord of Thy bounty, and to cling to the hem of Thy grace in such wise that the oppression of the aggressive ones in Thy days shall not deter them, nor shall the doings of the wrongdoers prevent them from turning toward Thy horizon.   BH00404

Take hold of the Book of God with the hand of submission and certitude, despite those who cast it behind their backs, and say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having strengthened me, caused me to recognize Thee, called me to Thy mighty announcement, and guided me to Thy straight path. I beseech Thee, O Lord of the kingdom of earth and heaven and Sovereign of the realm of might, by Thy command through which Thou hast subdued the world, to make me in all conditions steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy love, and speaking Thy praise amongst Thy servants.   BH06108

O Lord! Make firm the feet of Thy loved ones in Thy Cause and make them steadfast in Thy love. Make their hearts illumined by the radiant rays from Thy most glorious Kingdom and their breasts dilated through Thy verses sent down from Thy most exalted Realm. O Lord! They are orphans who have taken refuge in the shelter of Thy protection, they are poor who have sought the shade of Thy shelter, they are lowly ones who have clung to the cord of Thy might and grace. Look upon them, therefore, with the eye of Thy mercy and make them a sign of Thy compassion amongst Thy creatures.   AB00343

O God, O thou forgiving one! Shelter these homeless birds in the garden of fortitude and steadfastness upon the branches of the divine Lote Tree... May they become aflame through the heat of the love of God, weeping clouds in their separation from the beauty of the Generous One. May their faces become illumined through their faithfulness to God and may their hearts be gladdened as flower spangled meadows through His abounding grace. In the Cause of God may each one become as a manifest standard, and in steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament, may each be as a fortified stronghold.   AB01253

O my Lord! Praise be to Thee for Thy gracious gifts and wondrous bounties, whereby Thou hast caused me to recognize the Manifestation of Thy Self, honored me with His presence, made me hear His melodies, and brought me before Him. By Thy might! Were I to thank Thee for what Thou hast bestowed upon me throughout the duration of Thy sovereignty, it would still fall short of the wonders of Thy favors. But I beseech Thee by the sovereignty of Thy Name that hath encompassed all created things, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, speaking in praise of Thy Self, and mindful of Thy wondrous gifts.  BH11702

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst open the door of Thy mercy unto the faces of Thy servants and didst aid them that were detached through the hosts of Thy wisdom and Thy utterance, to assist Thy servants to perform that from which the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure may be wafted. O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned to Thee, beseeching the ocean of Thy favor and the heaven of Thy bounty. O my Lord! Aid me to serve Thee with such steadfastness as cannot be hindered by names nor by what the opposing parties possess.   BH07241

I beseech Thee by the light of Thy mercy which hath illumined the earth and the heavens, and by the holy fragrances which have perfumed the horizons on this Day of Deliverance, and by the ocean of Thy generosity whose waves have mounted high and encompassed all existence, wherein are immersed the people of adoration, to strengthen this servant of Thine to be patient in tribulation, to be content with Thy decree, to endure in hardship and distress, and to turn toward the Concourse on High, that he may chant the verses of Thy praise in the most exalted gatherings and arise with all his strength to worship Thee in the luminous sanctuaries.  AB08481

My God, my God! The fragrance of Thy raiment hath been diffused throughout Thy realms and the tokens of Thy greatness have been spread abroad throughout Thy lands. By Thy glory, O Thou the Goal of the world and the Beloved of the nations! The breezes of Thy Revelation have so carried me away that I have turned toward Thy most exalted horizon, clinging to the cord of Thy grace, O Thou Lord of Names and Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy Cause to ordain for me through the Pen of Thy Command that which Thou didst ordain for Thy chosen ones who attained unto the Greater Steadfastness in such wise that the oppression of the world did not deter them  BH01267

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having manifested me through Thy power and enabled me to serve Thee and caused me to speak Thy praise and illumined me with the light of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom, by the mysteries of the Realm of Might and the lights of Thy countenance whereby the realm of creation was illumined, and by Thy Most Great Book which speaketh before the faces of the nations, to assist me and Thy loved ones to remain steadfast in such wise that neither the promptings of the evil ones, nor the doubts of the deniers, nor the insinuations of those who have disbelieved in the Day of Judgment shall keep them back.   BH00771

My God, my God! I testify to Thy oneness and Thy unity, and that this Day is Thy Day, and this Cause is Thy Cause. Thou hast manifested and made clear Thy path, and sent down from the heaven of utterance Thy proof. I testify that no cause can withstand Thy Cause, and no power can rival Thy power. I beseech Thee by the Dayspring of Thy signs and the Dawning-Place of Thy clear tokens and the mines of Thy wisdom and the repositories of Thy knowledge, and by the Light wherewith Thou hast illumined the world, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the nations, to make me steadfast in Thy love, detached from all else but Thee, attracted by Thy verses, and enkindled with the fire of Thy sacred Tree.  BH01011

O my God and my Master! I am he who hath turned his face toward the seat of Thy throne, and I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which all who are in the heavens and on earth were shaken, save those whom Thou didst preserve through Thy grace and didst number among the sincere ones, that Thou withhold not from me the wonders of Thy gifts and favors, and that the sweet fragrances of Thy mercy and bestowals be not cut off from me. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent over what Thou willest, and Thou art the All-Compelling, the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Glorious. O Lord! Make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause in such wise that my feet shall not slip even though all created things should oppose me.  BH00424

O my Lord! Thou knowest that I have turned towards Thee and hastened to the place wherein He Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy evidences was imprisoned. Had it not been for Thy grace and bounty, how could I have attained unto this station from which Thy servants and creatures were debarred? Praise be to Thee, O my God, for that which Thou hast honored me through Thy generosity and bestowed upon me through Thy grace. I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Ultimate Hope of the sincere ones and the Beloved of the hearts of the lovers, to aid me in serving Thee and in promoting Thy Cause amongst Thy servants and creatures, and to make me one of those who have partaken of the wine of steadfastness and assurance and have attained unto that which Thou didst desire for them, O Thou Who art the Lord of Religions and the Creator of the worlds.   BH01606

O my God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having mentioned me through Thy most great signs, from which everyone possessed of perception perceiveth the fragrance of eternity. Glory be to Thee for having caused me to hear the rustling of Thy Most Exalted Pen and shown me Thy signs and most sublime words. I bear witness, O my God, to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and that Thou art God, there is none other God but Thee. Thou hast ever been supreme over the kingdom of earth and heaven. Through Thy name the banner of "He doeth what He willeth" was raised. I beseech Thee, O Creator of heaven and Sovereign of the Kingdom of Names, by the power of Thy Will and the manifestation of Thy Purpose, and by the Beloved through Whose advent the heavens of Thy might were honored, and by the Spirit whom Thou didst raise to the horizon of Thy Cause, and by the Rod that vanquished the swords and through which the stars of Thine enemies were dimmed and Pharaoh and his hosts were drowned by Thy might and power, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love, such that names shall not prevent me from drawing near unto Thee, nor shall the gulf of idle fancies debar me from turning toward the shore of the ocean of Thy mercy.   BH00669
