O Lord! Aid Thou Thy loved ones, and them that aid them.   BH09878

O my God! Glory be unto Thee! Aid, then, O my God, him who hath loved Thee and hath sought Thy face.  BH08837

I beseech Thee by Thy most excellent names to assist Thy loved ones with the hosts of power and might.   BH09867

We beseech God, exalted be His glory, to transform this weakness into strength and this abasement into glory.   BH09265

O my Lord! Aid them in that whereby the standards of Thy guidance and the banners of Thy Cause shall be upraised.   BH02724

I beseech Thee... to make me to triumph over Thine enemies and to prevail over the rebellious among Thy creatures   BH10358

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the standards of Thy triumph were raised above the ensigns of Thy dominion   BH09961

Chastise those who denied Thy most great signs and neglected Thy Cause by following their own selves and their desires   BH02873

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy loved ones to arise to that which will cause Thy Cause to be exalted amongst Thy servants.   BH10151

O Lord! Aid me and those with me through Thy sovereignty and might, for verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest.   BH09849

I beseech Thee by this powerlessness to assist my loved ones through Thy grace, then gather them beneath Thy banner in this Day   BH09919

My God, my God! Aid Thy servants to assist Thy Cause through the wisdom which Thou hast sent down in Thy perspicuous Book.   BH08556

Therefore, O Lord of Hosts, confirm us so that the army of light may achieve victory and the forces of darkness may be defeated.  AB05585

I beseech Thee by Thy Self to manifest through Thy sovereignty that which shall transform sorrow into joy and abasement into glory.  BH09028

Then cause to succeed, O my God, him whom We have desired to mention in this Tablet and assist him to aid Thy Cause and exalt Thy Word.  BH04747

I implore Thee, O Thou Who holdest in Thy hands the reins of unconstrained power, to succor them through the wondrous potency of Thy might.  BH04311

By Thy might, O God of the world and Goal of the nations, I have desired naught but the exaltation of Thy Word and the manifestation of Thy Cause  BH07000

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by what Thou art, to send down from the right hand of Thy power that which shall exalt Thy loved ones and abase Thine enemies.  BH07297

and ordain for each one of them to assist Thy Cause among Thy creation and to make mention of Thee with wisdom and utterance before the people of Thy realm  BH09949

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Most Glorious Name, to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty that which shall exalt the monotheists and abase the polytheists.   BH10682

to exalt Thy Cause and to aid Thy loved ones, and to bestow upon them from the fruits of the Tree of Thy Oneness and the produce of the holy Tree of Thy Singleness   BH09914

I beseech Thee to assist Thy party through the hosts of the seen and the unseen. Verily Thou art God, the Almighty, the All-Compelling, the Mighty, the All-Choosing.  BH08246

I beseech Thee by Thy Name which hath conquered all names and encompassed all who are in earth and heaven, to assist Thy loved ones through the wonders of Thy victory.   BH06118

I beseech Thee by those who have quaffed the wine of supreme steadfastness before the faces of all peoples, to assist me in all conditions to help Thy Cause and exalt Thy Word  BH09611

Therefore, O God, seize Thine enemies with the assaults of Thy wrath, and aid Thy chosen ones with the breezes of Thy glory. There is no God but Thee, and no Mighty One besides Thee.  BB00055

O Lord! I beseech Thee by these wrongs which have caused every person of insight and understanding to weep, to aid Thy loved ones... Strengthen them through Thy power and sovereignty   BH06585

I beseech Thee by Thy Name which hath conquered all things and encompassed earth and heaven, to raise up one who will aid Thee amongst Thy creatures and exalt Thy Cause in Thy lands.   BH05346

O Lord! Make me a herald of the Covenant, and a piercing flame against the people of discord, and an arrow penetrating the breast of the hypocrites, and a light shining throughout all regions.  AB08883

I beseech Thee, O God of all beings and Educator of all created things, to aid Thy loved ones to that which shall cause the standards of Thy triumph and victory to be raised amidst Thy creation   BH06903

O Lord! Make us helpers of Thy religion, supporters of Thy loved ones, and those who turn away from Thine enemies. There is none other God but Thee, the Almighty, the All-Ruling, the All-Willing.  BH05074

My Lord! Judge between me and them with truth, and send down unto me victory from Thy presence, and deliver me from this heedless land and its people, and make me to triumph over the transgressors.  BB00494

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Avenger, to send down upon some of Thy enemies that which shall cause their souls to tremble in this world and in the next. BH09705

O God! O God! Verily, I implore Thee with throbbing heart and streaming tears to aid every one who endeavors for the erection of this edifice...Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bountiful!  AB00963

O Lord! Purify the earth from Thy enemies, that thereby the faces of Thy chosen ones may be illumined and all may hasten to the sea, each wave of which proclaimeth: Praise be unto Thee, O Beloved of the worlds!  BH01875

Send down upon them, O my Lord, what will cause them to be busied with each others' concerns. Let, then, their violence be confined to their own selves, that the land and they that dwell therein may find peace.   BH10231

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Name round which circle all names, and by him who hath been afflicted in Thy path amidst the enemies, that Thou aid him through the wonders of Thy succour and leave him not to himself  BH09402

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy Word and the sun of Thy power to manifest in the world that which will gladden the eyes of Thy loved ones and bring assurance to their hearts in Thy days.   BH09084

O God, hasten Thy vengeance and retribution upon those who worship Thee not and prostrate not before Thee. Verily, Thou hast ever been the Subduer of all things, the Manifest above all things, the Powerful over all things   BB00664

Send down upon them, O my Lord, that which will unmistakably reveal unto them the fury of Thy wrath and the ascendancy of Thy power, and will enable them to recognize the weight of Thy might and the greatness of Thy strength.  BH02871

O God, my God! I supplicate...that Thou would confirm and strengthen the pillars of the house of Thy manifest religion, Thy straight path, and Thy exemplary way among humanity, and reinforce the backs of Thy loved ones in Thy Cause   AB02856

Through the hosts of the Supreme Concourse make that faithful company victorious and triumphant, and favor them with abundant grace. Make them verses of unity and banners of glorification, and day by day increase their confirmation   AB03037

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name which none hath known save Thine own Self, the All-Knowing, to raise up through Thy sovereignty one who will arise to aid Thy Cause, to exalt Thy Word, and to manifest Thy dominion amongst Thy creatures.   BH08248

We beseech Thee, O God of the world and Goal of the nations, to send down from the heaven of Thy power that which will exalt the station of those among Thy servants who profess Thy unity and those among Thy creatures who hold fast to Thee.   BH01859

O Lord! Seize them through Thy power, then aid Thy loved ones through Thy loving-kindness and Thy handmaidens through Thy grace. I testify at this moment that victory is their being aided to know Thee and enabled to remember and praise Thee.   BH05773

Cut off the hands that were stretched forth against them in tyranny and oppression, and the tongues that were extended against them in hatred and enmity. Then turn back upon them what they intended against those who sought the Dayspring of Thy Revelation   BH03504

Render Thy Cause victorious, O my Lord, and abase Thou Thine enemies. Write down, then, for us the good of this life and of the life to come. Thou art the Truth, Who knoweth the secret things. No God is there but Thee, the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.  BH01888

"Make them then, O my God, triumphant over Thine enemies and cause them to be steadfast in Thy service, that through them the evidences of Thy dominion may be established throughout Thy realms and the tokens of Thine indomitable power be manifested in Thy lands."  BH03262

Make me and Thy sincere servants as hosts arrayed from Thy most glorious Kingdom and as bands scattered against the parties that oppose the Supreme Concourse, until the ranks of the army of death are scattered and the disheveled forces of life are gathered together  AB00499

I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty that hath encompassed all created things, and by Thy command that hath subdued all contingent beings, to ordain for the people of T and F that which will draw them nigh unto the pavilion of Thy glory and the canopies of Thy grandeur.   BH02043

Say: Glory be unto Thee, O my God, and glory be unto Thee, O my Heart's Desire! Thou seest me turning towards the horizon of Thy Manifestation. I beseech Thee, by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of Thy Book, to aid me to arise for the triumph of Thy Cause.   BH10687

We beseech from Him victory and deliverance for His servants who are encompassed by the ships of polytheism and the cannons of unbelief. O my Lord! Thou seest Thy weak servants - where is Thy strength, O Lord of the worlds, and where is Thy power, O Creator of the nations?   BH05821

O God! I beseech Thee by Thy Divinity which is exalted above all things, to punish every being of Alif associated with the Tree of Negation, by Thy Sovereignty which is sanctified above all things. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Severe. [continues with similar verses throughout]   BB00161

Thou seest, O my God, how Thy loved ones have been encompassed by the rebellious amongst Thy creatures and the wicked amidst Thy people. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to draw forth the hand of power from the bosom of Thy might and to assist therewith all them that love Thee.  BH09809

I beseech Thee by the light whereby Thou didst deliver Noah and his companions, and didst make the fire cool for Thy Friend despite his enemies, and whereby Thou didst manifest Thy straight path and make it the herald of Thy mighty News, to deliver them through Thy grace and bounty.   BH01022

Assist Thou Thy servants, O my God, to help Thy Cause, and give them to drink what will quicken their hearts in Thy realm, lest anything hinder them from remembering Thee and from extolling Thy virtues, that they may quit their homes in Thy name, and summon all the multitudes unto Thee.  BH04460

Then send down upon them what Thou hast ordained for them in the kingdom of Thy decree, strengthen them through Thy might, and exalt them through Thy power over Thine enemies, that Thou mayest cleanse Thy earth of those who have denied Thy Self, rejected Thy proof, and repudiated Thy signs.  BH11724

I entreat Thee...to aid all them that are dear to Thee with both Thy visible and invisible hosts. Render them, moreover, victorious over all those who have so rebelled in Thy land, and dishonored Thy name, and disbelieved in Thy signs, and broken Thy Covenant, and cast behind their backs Thy laws  BH08827

Send down, O my God, from Thy presence, one possessed of severe might and tremendous power. Send down, O my God, from Thy presence a sovereign upon the earth until no trace of the unbelievers remaineth. Send down, O my God, a king upon the earth, then aid him with Thy hosts and with the like thereof.   BB00274

Glory be to Thee, O God! Destroy Thou every possessor of the letter Alif who believeth not in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest, the Manifestation of Thy Greatest Proof, by Thy Divinity which is indeed exalted above all things. Verily Thou art powerful over all things. [repeating pattern through other letters]   BB00168

Put forth, therefore, out of the bosom of Thy glory, O my Lord, the hand of Thine omnipotence, and through it assist Thou Thy loved ones who, though sore-tried in Thy path with such trials as have caused the inmates of the kingdom of Thy Cause to groan, were not deterred from turning towards the horizon of Thy Revelation.   BH08849

I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath encompassed all things, that Thou assist these souls with the wonders of Thy succor, strengthen them through Thy might, and make them victorious over Thine enemies, that thereby the manifestations of Thy power may appear among Thy servants and the revelations of Thy might among Thy creatures.  BH02534

O Lord! Deprive us not of the wonders of Thy grace in Thy days, and distance us not from the shores of nearness through Thy bounty and favors. O Lord! Send down upon me that which will make me rich through Thy riches, and speaking in Thy praise, and mindful in Thy remembrance. Then ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.  BH03030

that Thou mayest assist Thy servant - who turneth unto Thee, who boweth down in humility before Thee, who repenteth unto Thee - with the hosts of might and power and the armies of glory and sovereignty against every transgressor and doubter, against those condemned in the Book and those base-born traducers from among the people of the veil   AB09131

Therefore, O my God, do Thou send down at this moment upon the Tree of Divine Unity in the Bayan, and upon its branches, leaves, and fruits, that which shall make us victorious over the earth and all who dwell thereon, and shall fill Thy heavens and Thy earth and all that lieth between them with the truth that there is none other God but Thee   BB00125

I beseech God to inflict the severest punishment upon those who acted proudly against You and transgressed against You, for He is most severe in might and in retribution. May God bestow favor upon those who were guided by Your guidance, and may He grant, through His grace and mercy, His good pleasure to those who are pleased with Your good pleasure  BB00086

O Lord! Open unto them the gates of blessings, make them expositions of Thy clear signs, raise through them Thy standards, spread through them Thy traces, cause through them Thy lights to shine forth, preserve through them Thy Faith, make them the hosts of Thy mighty fortress and the armies of Thy firm Covenant, exalt their word among all mankind.   AB01488

O God, I beseech Thee by Thy Most Compelling Name, the Most Compelling Name, that compelleth all things created in the heavens and on earth. I implore Thee by this same Most Great Name to assist me and them that have believed in Thee and in Thy signs to obey Thee and to be steadfast in Thy Cause, and to protect them from those who have repudiated the truth of Thy tokens in Thy days.  BB00251

Say: My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the blood that hath been shed in Thy path, and by that which hath befallen the Manifestation of Thyself in the Land of Ta through the tyranny of Thine enemies and the injury inflicted by the wicked ones among Thy creatures, to aid Thy servants to turn unto Thee and to arise to serve Thy Cause. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest.  BH00603

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward the heaven of Thy Revelation, speaking forth Thy praise and Thy verses, and acknowledging that which hath shone forth from the horizon of the kingdom of Thy knowledge. I beseech Thee to make me confirmed in the assistance of Thy Cause and the exaltation of Thy Word, in such wise that the standards of Thy Cause may be raised in Thy cities and domains.   BH10322

I beseech Thee by Thy name, the All-Merciful, through which the breaths of life were wafted over all who are in the heavens and on earth, to raise up from among those possessed of power one who shall arise to aid Thy Cause, exalt Thy Word, and establish Thy laws among Thy servants. Then strengthen through him, O my God, Thy loved ones who have turned unto Thee and sought the sanctuary of Thy presence.   BH00564

Overpower by Thy Name, the All-Subduing, such as have wronged Thy Previous Manifestation Who hath now appeared invested with Thy title, the All-Glorious. Enable Thy loved ones, by Thy Name, the Victorious, to prevail against Thine enemies and the infidels among Thy creatures. Abase Thou, O my Lord, Thine enemies, and lay hold on them with Thy power and might, and let them be stricken by the blast of Thy wrath.  BH03356

O God! I beseech You as a captive beseeches the Supreme King, and I implore You as one bound in chains of iron implores the Mighty Pillar, to assist Your loved ones in this new age and glorious century in whatever You love and desire. O Lord! Make firm their feet, raise their banners, spread their lights, illumine their mysteries, strengthen their appearance, and gird up their loins until their light shines forth brilliantly.   AB00526

I entreat Thee, O my God, by Thy Name which irradiateth all things, to raise up such servants as shall incline their ears to the voice of the melodies that hath ascended from the right hand of the throne of Thy glory. Make them, then, to quaff from the hand of Thy grace the wine of Thy mercy, that it may assure their hearts, and cause them to turn away from the left hand of idle fancies and vain imaginings to the right hand of confidence and certitude.   BH05077

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy unified friends among Thy tyrannical servants, and Thou knowest what hath befallen them in Thy path in Thy days, and Thou hearest what the wicked among Thy creatures and the wolves of Thy earth have said and continue to say regarding them. I beseech Thee by Thy Call which was raised before the faces of all mankind...to aid Thine enemies to return unto Thee and to acknowledge what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book, and to open before the faces of Thy friends the doors of Thy grace and mercy.  BH00858

O my God! I press my brow and cover my face with the dust of lowliness, impotence and contrition, beseeching Thee at eventide and at dawn, supplicating before Thee in the darkness of night and the bright light of day, that Thou mayest assist Thy servant, who hath turned unto Thee in humility and submission and repentance, with the hosts of power and might and the armies of glory and dominion against every aggressive doubter and sinner mentioned in the Book and every contemptible impostor from among the people of the veil.  AB09131

Glory be unto Thee, O Lord of eternity and Sovereign of the nations, Who calleth out through the Most Great Name! I beseech Thee by the blood of Thy near ones which was shed in Thy days for love of Thee, and by the hearts of them that are aflame with love for Thee, which were pierced by the arrows of the enemies in Thy path and for the manifestation of Thy Cause, to assist Thy loved ones to remember Thee and praise Thee and to stand firm in this Cause, than which no greater hath been ordained in Thy dominion and Thy realm.   BH01109

Say: Glory be to Thee, O Thou Who art the Goal of the hearts of them that know Thee and the Object of worship of all who are in the heavens and on earth! Thou seest how darkness hath encompassed all lands to such extent that Thy party among Thy servants lamenteth. O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the lights of the Day-Star of Thy justice and the splendors of the Sun of Thy Word to ordain through Thy Most Exalted Pen for those who have turned to Thee, O Thou Owner of Names, that which Thou didst ordain for Thy loved ones and chosen ones.   BH03593

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy power which encompasseth all created things, and by Thy might whereby all possibilities are rendered powerless, to protect Thy unitarian servants from the idolaters and their cannons and rifles and swords. O Lord! Thou seest Thy party among the parties and beneath the claws of a pack of wolves. I beseech Thee, O Lord of Lords, by Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers and Thy Books, and by Him Whom Thou hast established in Thy stead in the kingdom of creation and chosen from among the Prophets to manifest Thy hidden mystery   BH00989

O my God, my God! Thou seest the offshooots of the Tree of Eternity and the leaves of Thy most exalted Paradise turning toward Thy Most Glorious Beauty, drawn to the Most High Lord, yearning for the vision and meeting, shedding tears and with hearts aflame in Thy love in this first life. Lord! Enable them to attain unto Thee in the next life and to gain Thy good-pleasure in this first life. Make them servants of Thy most exalted Threshold, trustees of Thy most glorious Paradise, guardians of Thy most secure Shelter, and bearers of Thy luminous Tablets.  AB06548

I beseech Thee, O God, by Thy name O God, O Most Merciful, O Sovereign, then by Thy name O First, then by Thy name O Last, then by Thy name O Manifest, then by Thy name O Hidden, that Thou shouldst bless the Bayan and its people, and punish those who opposed it, denied it, rejected its Cause and usurped its rights, and that Thou shouldst seize them with Thy grip and all Thy power of the Almighty, the Compelling, the Severe, the Subduing, the Seizing, the Forceful, and the Avenging. Verily, Thou art the most severe in might and the most severe in vengeance.   BB00422

O Thou Incomparable God! O Thou Lord of the Kingdom! These souls are Thy heavenly army. Assist them and, with the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse, make them victorious, so that each one of them may become like unto a regiment and conquer these countries through the love of God and the illumination of divine teachings. O God! Be Thou their supporter and their helper, and in the wilderness, the mountain, the valley, the forests, the prairies and the seas, be Thou their confidant-so that they may cry out through the power of the Kingdom and the breath of the Holy Spirit.   AB00218

O my Lord! I have turned with my whole being to the Dawning-Place of the signs of Thy oneness, and have turned away from those who have opposed the Dayspring of Thy Cause. Preserve me, O my God, beneath the shadow of Thy great mercy. Then make me to be of those who have stood firm in Thy Cause, who have been faithful to Thy Covenant, and who have cast behind their backs all who are in the realm. Ordain for me, O my God, the victory of Thy Cause and Thy remembrance amongst Thy servants, and disappoint me not of that which Thou hast ordained for the choicest among Thy creatures.  BH01530

O Lord! These are honored servants who remember Thee in the dark of night, the bright morn, the witnessed Day, and the extended shade. Lord! Cause their tongues to speak with Thy remembrance, make them signs of Thy mercy amidst humanity, manifestations of excellence, and dawning-places of Names. Establish them in those regions, make manifest through them the lamp of guidance in all directions, cause them to speak with proof and evidence, establish certainty in their hearts, preserve them beneath the wing of grace and bounty, and guard them with the eye of Thy care from abasement and degradation.  AB01523

Say: O my God! Thou beholdest me among Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and turned away from Thy beauty after that which they were promised in Thy Book and Thy Tablets. I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Name through which the fragrance of the garment of Thy mercy was wafted throughout Thy dominions, to help me in all conditions and to ordain for me the recompense of such as have arisen to serve Thy Cause and have remained steadfast in Thy love. O my Lord! Aid me to help Thee in Thy lands, then write down for me that which Thou hast written for Thy chosen ones who were martyred in Thy path.   BH02900

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy sincere servants scattered throughout the regions, and beholdest Thy assured bondsmen dispersed in all directions among the heedless, calling people to the fountainhead of certitude, guiding them to the Straight Path, and giving them to drink from the Spring of Tasneem. Yet the opponents shoot at them with penetrating arrows and attack them like ravening wolves and fierce beasts, making them taste grievous torment. O Lord! Aid them with hosts from Thy glorious Kingdom, support them with Thy wondrous favor, assist them with Thy manifest sovereignty, and make smooth their path, O my Glorious Lord!  AB00841

O my God, my God! Thou seest me captive in the hands of these oppressors, abased beneath the lash of these antagonists, wronged by the successive volleys of arrows and repeated thrusts of spears from those possessed of rancor and rebellion, who have violated Thy Covenant, denied Thy Testament, made mock of Thy Will, derided Thy chosen ones, rejected Thy signs, disputed Thy proof, perverted Thy Word, and denied Thy mercy and altered Thy favor. O Lord! Through Thy supreme power, cast down their banners, heal their diseases, erase their traces, silence their melodies, remove the veil from their eyes, break the seal of their hearts and ears, and guide them to the path of Thy Covenant. Grant them a portion of Thy effulgent light. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Glorious, the Self-Subsisting.   AB00332
