
He is God. O Lord! This is a servant who has presented himself before Thy servants and sought to attend the gathering which has been prepared for Thy loved ones, that they may be given to drink of the choice wine whose seal is the musk of Thy love, whose taste is the sweetness of Thy remembrance, whose fragrance is the perfume of Thy praise, and whose color is blood shed in Thy love and poured out in Thy path. O Lord! In that gathering are assembled souls whose faces are radiant with the lights of Thy love, whose breasts are dilated with Thy remembrance, whose hearts are attracted to Thy beauty, whose essences are illumined by Thy lights, whose realities overflow with Thy mysteries, whose spirits are refined by the signs of Thy holy might, whose bodies quiver with the breezes of Thy grace. O Lord! Make their assembly like the Pleiades in the Kingdom of Names, and their fellowship like the fellowship of brilliant pearls strung upon the necklaces of radiant maidens. Make their hearts united through Thy most great signs, their souls revived by the holy breaths in this most exalted gathering, their tongues a single tongue speaking in praise, their hearts a single sea surging with winds that blow from Thy most glorious Kingdom, and their joy arising from breezes wafting from the paradise of Thy most exalted Beauty. O Lord! Make firm their feet in Thy remembrance, strengthen their backs in Thy service, remove their grief through Thy grace, remind them of Thy verses, and make them the dawning-places of Thy inspiration, the daysprings of Thy traces, the rising-points of Thy lights, the sources of Thy praise, the torches of Thy love, the lamps of Thy knowledge, the stars in the heaven of servitude to Thee, and the planets in the horizon of bondage unto Thee. Verily, Thou art the Confirmer, the Supporter, the Mighty, the Generous.  AB03712

O Divine providence, shed a ray from the Sun of Truth upon this gathering that it may become illumined.   ABU3567

O Thou Kind God! We have gathered together with the utmost humility and submission in this Spiritual Assembly.   AB04602

O Lord! These souls have come to this gathering purely out of love and are present with perfect love and harmony.   AB05109

My God, my God! These are servants who have turned toward the right hand of Thy favor, who have gathered together and been attracted by Thy call   AB05017

O loving Lord! This assemblage turns to Thee, communes with Thee in supplication, beseeches Thy Kingdom in utter humility, and seeks forgiveness and pardon. O God! Make this gathering respected, make these souls holy  AB05922

O Pure God! Make this gathering a light to the world, and make this assembly a rose garden and flower bed. Make its meeting place a garden of paradise and its dawning place the dawning-place of the lights of the All-Merciful.   AB02814

O my Ancient Lord! Aid the Assembly of Sanctification with Your assistance and protection in both worlds and with the Most Great Gift. O Lord! Make this luminous institution and noble gathering blessed through Your glorious bounty   AB03867

O Lord! Make this assemblage radiant; aid these souls; make these faces luminous; make these dispositions a rose garden and flower bed; quicken these spirits through the holy breathings; make these souls noble through Thy most great guidance   AB09279

O Lord! Adorn their gathering with the lights of Thy unity, illuminate their assembly with the lamp of Thy sanctity, purify their court with the cloud of Thy transcendence, strengthen their foundations with Thy power that vanquisheth all things  AB01147

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Self-Subsisting sovereignty over the kingdoms of the heavens and earth to confirm this divine gathering with Thy invisible confirmations and heavenly success and inspiration from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom in all matters.  AB01729

O Lord! O Lord! Bless this Spiritual Gathering, strengthen them by Thy power for the spreading of Thy divine fragrances, cause them to follow Thy will which is effective in the realities of all things, and aid them by a confirmation such as never hath preceded to any one in former centuries.   AB04626

O my God! O God! We are servants who have sincerely turned our faces unto Thy Grand Face; severed ourselves from all else save thee in this Great Day and are assembled together in this glorious meeting of one accord and desire, and unanimous in thought to promulgate Thy Word amid Thy creatures.   AB04598

O God! Through the effusions of the cloud of bounty, transform this assemblage into a rose garden and meadow, that they may be delivered from waiting, witness the lights of the Sun of Truth, receive tidings from the invisible realm, and discover the mysteries of the concealed world. Thou art the Guide.  AB11155

O God, my God! We are servants of Thine that have turned with devotion to Thy Holy Face, that have detached ourselves from all besides Thee in this glorious Day. We have gathered in this Spiritual Assembly, united in our views and thoughts, with our purposes harmonized to exalt Thy Word amidst mankind...   AB01023

O Lord! Make this gathering even as an ignited candle that sheddeth its light to the six directions and illumine and chase away this obscure darkness with the light of Thy revelation. O Lord! Make this assembly a centre of perfections. O Merciful! Make this gathering a dawning-place of Thy loving-kindness.  AB02379

This Assembly has been organized for the exaltation of God - the Holy Spirit. Assist, confirm it and reinforce it by Thy Heavenly Power so that it may blaze like unto a brilliant flame and may diffuse Merciful Light. That it may illumine the surrounding regions, may promulgate Heavenly Teachings and serve the Oneness of the world of mankind.  AB08622

My Lord, my Lord! You see the faces of Your loved ones radiant with Your favors, resplendent with the lights of Your love, illumined by the rays of Your knowledge, and turned toward Your Kingdom... They chant with wondrous melody in this exalted garden, glorifying Your praise, circling round Your throne, prostrating before Your sovereignty, and submitting to Your proof.   AB12156

O my God, my God! These are servants whom the wine of bounty has intoxicated, whom the breezes of faithfulness have stirred, whom the lights of Beauty have attracted, and whom the fire kindled in the Sinai of Glory has guided to Thy straight path, Thy firm highway, Thy even road and the kingdom of Thy mighty glory. O Lord! Make them lamps of guidance, hosts of Thy Supreme Concourse, signs of Thy great bounty and standards of Thy most glorious Kingdom.  AB01741

O God! O God! Thou dost look upon us from Thine unseen Kingdom of Oneness, [beholding] that we have assembled in this Spiritual Meeting, believing in Thee, confident in Thy signs, firm in Thy Covenant and Testament, attracted unto Thee, set aglow with the fire of Thy love, sincere in Thy Cause, servants in Thy vineyard, spreaders of Thy Religion, worshipers of Thy Countenance, humble to Thy beloved, submissive at Thy door and imploring Thee to confirm us in the service of Thy chosen ones.   AB04620

O Thou kind Lord! The circle of the righteous hath been scattered and the gathering place of the friends hath been destroyed. Wouldst Thou reveal Thy bounties unto them once more? Wouldst Thou shower these friends again with new confirmations that they might come together and become illuminated by the lamp of thy remembrance in their gatherings? O God, the Most Kind! Lift Thy decree that hath disbanded and dispersed these friends! O Compassionate Lord gather this desolate and scattered band.   AB01619

O Lord! Make these gathered ones radiant candles, and confirm these souls. Make their faces luminous and their dispositions like unto a rose garden and flower bed. Quicken their spirits through the holy breathings, and make their souls precious through Thy most great guidance. Bestow heavenly bounties, and make worthy of divine gifts. Keep them safe and protected in the shelter of Thy protection and preservation. Make them the recipients of endless favors and special confirmations. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, and the All-Knowing.  AB09279

O thou Kind God! We have gathered together with the utmost humility and submission in this spiritual assembly, we have turned our faces toward Thy Kingdom and are begging for Thy confirmation and assistance; so that we may become united and harmonized; associate with each other with the sweetness of honey and milk; and become the cause of the appearance of the oneness of the Kingdom of humanity and with pure heart, brilliant souls, pray to thee and beg of thee the fulfillment of our aspirations. Almighty, do thou not look upon our sins, treat us according to Thy Grace and Favor. Forgive our shortcomings, bestow upon us Thy Bounty, Enkindle the Fire of Thy Love. Burn away the veil of superstition, passion and desire. Protect and guard us against the failings of the self; and shelter us under the shade of Thy Tree of Mercifulness and grant us spiritual composure and rest. Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty!  AB07511
