I beseech Thee to replace the throne of tyranny with the seat of justice.   BH09087

I beseech Thee...to illumine Thy earth with the light of Thy justice and the radiance of Thy countenance.   BH11073

Aid all to practice justice, equity and fairness, and through Thy grace and favor establish them firmly in truth.  AB05997

My God, my God! Adorn Thy servants with the ornament of justice and illumine their hearts with the light of equity.   BH02226

I beseech Him, exalted be He, to aid you and sustain you in manifesting justice and fairness in the cities and regions   BH05245

Manifest the effulgences of Your favors and grant justice to the oppressors. Make strangers into friends and transform others into companions.  AB04131

O my Lord! Illumine the horizon of Thy justice through Thy sovereignty, then preserve it from the clouds of tyranny and the veils of oppression   BH10907

pray that God may guide these foolish ones and grant them insight so they may distinguish the truthful from the false and recognize friend from foe   AB01602

I beseech Thee by the Lamp of Thy mercy wherewith Thou hast illumined the cities of wisdom and utterance, to assist the followers of all religions to justice and benevolence.   BH08015

Grant me permission by your grace and remove those who have wrongfully come between me and you with a near and just decree. Ordain for me a goodly exit and manifest just authority   BB00419

I beseech Thee... to send down from the heaven of Thy decree that which will adorn the people of Thy kingdom with the ornament of Thy justice and sanctify them from whatsoever beseemeth not Thee and Thy days  BH10594

Be fair in the Cause of God and His Manifestation, and be not of them who disputed His signs and denied His favor and committed that which caused every discerning scholar and every informed mystic to lament.  BH11693

When thou hast received My tablet, say: My God, my God! Adorn Thy servants with the ornament of justice and assist them to manifest pure truthfulness and illumine them with the light of righteousness and piety.  BH11636

I beseech Thee, O God of existence and Master of the unseen and the seen... to strip from the temples of Thy servants the garments of tyranny, ignorance and transgression, and to adorn them with the raiment of knowledge, justice and fairness.   BH02787

'O God, the lives of innocent people are in danger and the king has conditioned their release upon my intercession. Because of this benevolent act, I intercede with Thee for him, while I confess my own sins. I hope the Almighty will forgive him for this good deed.'  ABU1610

O my God, my God! Protect the luminary of justice from the clouds of oppression, after it hath declined through the deeds of them who have denied Thy proof and Thy testimony and have turned away from that which Thou hast revealed through Thy power and Thy sovereignty.  BH03708

Wrong not anyone, and judge, O my God, between all with justice, and forgive not those who have wronged people without right. I bear witness that they have deserved what none among creation deserves. Deal with them according to what their hands have wrought in Thy path.   BB00138

Adorn the heads of Thy servants with the crown of truthfulness and detachment, and their temples with the ornament of godliness. Then aid them to return unto Thee and to enter beneath the gate of Thy grace.   BH01599

Aid the oppressed from this great injustice and protect Thy weak servants from the tyranny of the cruel ones. Thou seest, O my God, how they show no mercy even to the humble among the elderly, no compassion even to suckling infants, and spare not even those who bow down in prayer.   AB00230

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty to transform the tyranny of Thy servants into justice, their turning away into turning toward the court of Thy glory, and their denial into acknowledgment of that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.   BH02043

Take hold of the Most Great Handle in the name of the Lord of all mankind and say: O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy signs and the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens to unveil unto Thy servants that which Thou hast unveiled unto us through Thy power and Thy sovereignty.  BH01284

Then enable the princes of Thy earth and the learned ones of Thy lands to execute justice and equity in Thy realm. O Lord! Thou seest Thy chosen ones in the hands of the oppressors who have cast behind their backs Thy covenant and Thy testament, who have denied Thy bounty and disputed Thy signs.   BH01271

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the sighing of the hearts of the oppressed, by the tears from the eyes of Thy near servants, and by the blood that hath been shed in Thy path, to aid the heedless to act with justice and the deniers to turn unto Thee and to face toward Thy Prophets and Messengers and to cling to the hem of Thy bounty.   BH00774

My God, my God! I have turned toward Thee, and I cling to Thy cord, hoping for the wonders of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the Point through which Thou hast distinguished the Books of the world, and by the Sun of Thy knowledge whereby Thou hast illumined the horizons of the hearts of the nations, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds.  BH05629

Say: My God, my God! Thou seest what hath befallen Thy chosen ones and loved ones at the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures. I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty which hath encompassed all existence, and by Thy Name whereby Thou hast subdued both the seen and the unseen, to assist the oppressors in achieving justice and equity, and to make known to them what hath proceeded from them throughout the nights and days.   BH01383

Say: My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name the Almighty, and by Thy Name the Chosen One, and by Thy Name the Powerful, to sanctify the earth and its cities and regions from the likes of these. O my Lord! Thou seest how they have turned away from Thee and pronounced judgment against Thee without any clear proof or Book. Cleanse the earth from the defilement of these who have manifested rancor and hatred. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest, and verily Thou art the Avenger, the Just, the All-Wise.  BH11893

My God, my God! Thou seest the oppressed ones among the wicked among Thy creation, and Thou witnesseth their sighs and tears in what hath befallen them at the hands of those who have made tyranny their practice in Thy land and oppression their characteristic in dealing with Thy servants. O Lord! I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the effulgences of the sun of Thy grace to aid the oppressed ones to patience and steadfastness in what hath befallen and will befall them in times of hardship and tribulation.  BH11720
