Glorified art Thou, O my God! Praise and thanks be unto Thee  AB12482

Glory be unto Thee, O God, for Thy Manifestation of Love to mankind!  BH07996

Glory be unto Thee, O Light of hearts and Manifest One through Thy beloved Name!  BH06661

Glory be unto Thee, O God of existence and Sovereign of the unseen and the seen!   BH07220

I beseech Thee to assist me in Thy remembrance, Thy praise, and service to Thy loved ones.   BH03167

All praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having guided me unto the path of righteousness   BH08887

Praise and thanks be unto Thee that Thou hast sent down unto Thy servants a purifying draught   AB02634

Turn your faces to the sanctified Kingdom and open your tongues in praise of the Ancient of Days.  AB03599

Praise be unto Thee, O Sovereign of existence, Who hast appeared through Thy name, the All-Loving!   BH07813

Therefore be thankful and say: "Praise be to Thee, O Beloved of the mystics and Goal of all the worlds!"   BH10596

O my Lord! I beseech Thee...to enable me to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy servants   BH03701

Be thankful and say: "Praise be unto Thee, O Master of existence, and glorified be Thou, O Lord of Lords!"   BH06677

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me and Thy servants through Thy Most Exalted Pen   BH05495

"Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having made me one of Thy leaves and recorded me by Thy Most Exalted Pen"   BH09718

God willing, thou shalt ever be speaking in praise and glorification of God and remain steadfast in His Cause.  BH07598

Glorified art Thou, O God! Thou art the Creator of the heavens and earth, the Ordainer of command and creation.   BB00380

O my God! Praise be to Thee for having caused me to turn to the horizon of Thy bounty and to speak forth Thy praise.   BH10180

Praise be unto Thee, O Thou the Desire of the world, for having adorned my being with the ornament of Thy remembrance   BH10956

Rejoice thou in the Most Great Name, then prostrate thyself and be thou submissive before God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH08339

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me and revealed unto me that which draweth me nigh unto Thee   BH05129

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to attain unto Thy presence and to hear Thy voice  BH11047

Make him speak in praise of Thy Self amidst Thy creation. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Possessor of wondrous grace.  AB09093

Praise be unto Thee for having sent down to me from the heaven of Thy utterance the signs of Thy generosity and grace.  BH10462

"Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of the world, and glory be unto Thee, O Beloved of those who are in the heavens and on earth!"   BH09645

O Lord! Assist me to remember and praise Thee, cause my tongue to speak of Thy glorification and attributes among Thy creation   AB02327

My God, my God! Aid me to remember Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy servants with the wisdom Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.   BH03393

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having remembered me when I was silent, and for having turned toward me when I was still.   BH06407

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having caused me to hear Thy most sweet call and shown me the traces of Thy Most Exalted Pen."   BH05946

O my Lord! My Lord! These are servants who have been attracted by Thy holy fragrances and have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love  AB04904

"Then manifest through Thy grace that which will exalt Thy remembrance and praise. Verily Thou art the Almighty over what Thou willest."   BH03530

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink from the cup of Thy knowledge and guided me to Thine all-highest horizon   BH04576

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to perform a deed from which the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure hath been wafted   BH10648

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having given me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy utterance and guided me to the ocean of Thy knowledge.   BH09126

Arise then to render thanks and praise, for He hath guided thee to the Most Great Ocean and caused thee to be mentioned by the Most Exalted Pen.  BH10893

Praise be to Him Who caused the Dove to speak in praise of the Sun of Glory, and illumined the highest heaven with one of His Most Beautiful Names  AB11667

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and my sight with beholding the traces of Thy Pen.   BH04671

Glorified be Thy Lord, the Lord of might, above what they describe, and peace be upon the Messengers, and praise be to God, the Lord of the worlds.  BB00011

Loose my tongue to laud Thy name amidst Thy people, that my voice may be raised in great assemblies and from my lips may stream the flood of Thy praise.  AB02866

I beseech Thee by the lights of the faces of Thy loved ones and the mysteries hidden in Thy Book to enable me to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee   BH03815

Praise be unto Thee, O God of Names and Creator of the heavens, for having strengthened me, made me know Thee, and accepted what befell my son in Thy path   BH05352

O pure Lord! Praise be to Thee, worship be to Thee, and adoration be to Thee, for having enabled this lowly servant to succeed in such a momentous matter.   AB07503

Praise be unto Thee for having loosened my tongue in my supplications, that I might commune in the depths of night and call upon Thee with my heart and soul  AB01447

Praise be to God Who created me by His command, then sustained me by His grace, then fed me when I was hungry. There is no God but He, the Mighty, the Wise.   BB00121

In the name of our Most Mighty, Most Great, Ever-Forgiving, Most Generous Lord! Glorified art Thou, O Thou Who causeth the winds to blow and cleaveth the dawn!  BH11880

I yield Thee thanks that Thou hast made known unto me Him Who is the Day-Spring of Thy mercy, and the Dawning-Place of Thy grace, and the Repository of Thy Cause.  BH09508

I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy mercy and the dawning lights of the sun of Thy grace to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise among Thy servants   BH08366

that he may thank Thee for the removal of distress, the abundance of mercy, the profusion of bounty, the manifestation of compassion, and healing from every illness  AB06553

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made known unto me the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Ocean of Thy knowledge and the Repository of Thine inspiration.   BH04280

Glorify your Lord, then praise Him and say: Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and enabled me to turn toward Thee.   BH04697

O Kind Lord! What bounty You have shown and what favors You have bestowed! ... O peerless Lord! Thanks be to You, praise be to You, glory be to You, and worship be to You.   AB03637

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me and caused me to hear and for having sent down unto me that which hath diffused the fragrance of Thy loving-kindness.   BH03382

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink the Kawthar of immortality from the hands of Thy bounty, and thanks be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy path  BH06063

I beseech God to nourish thee at all times with the fruits of the tree of generosity and beneficence, and to aid thee throughout all days to remember and praise Him amidst mankind.   BH10614

Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who didst move Thy Most Exalted Pen by Thy Name! I testify that Thou art the Lord of the servants and the Educator of all who are in earth and heaven.   BH03746

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having strengthened me and made me recognize Thee and guided me and caused me to hear Thy most sweet call as it was raised betwixt earth and heaven.   BH06806

O my God and my Beloved! This is the day of Naw-Ruz and the morning of divine favors, illumined with a radiant, brilliant, manifest light from the outpouring of Thy Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB03605

"Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of all mankind and Master of the throne on high and of the earth below, for having given me to drink the Kawthar of Thy bounty from the hand of Thy generosity"  BH07346

O God! My Lord, my Master, my Refuge! These are servants who have purified their faces for Your greatness and sovereignty, and have sanctified their souls through Your love and recognition  AB00935

O my Lord! I beseech Thee to assist me under all conditions to remember and praise Thee in such wise that neither the books of the world nor the intimations of the nations shall prevent me   BH05052

Remember the Lord in such wise that every slumberer may be awakened thereby and the hearts of those who have turned to the Qiblih of all who are in the heavens and on earth may rejoice.   BH04975

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me, caused me to hear, given me to drink, and made me turn toward the court of Thy glory after the turning away of most of Thy creatures."  BH02818

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having made known unto me the Dawning-Place of Thy mighty signs and taught me what was hidden in Thy knowledge and guided me unto Thy mighty, extended Path   BH07703

"My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and for having sent down unto me that which shall cause my remembrance to endure in Thy Book."   BH07894

God bears witness regarding His servant that he has believed in God and His verses and was among those who are guided. My God, I bear witness to Thee by that which Thou dost testify for Thyself   BB00587

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled me to recognize the Dayspring of Thy Revelation and the Dawning-Place of Thy knowledge, and for having given me to drink of the wine of Thy bounty  BH08435

Praise be unto Thee, O my Exalted Lord, for what Thou hast bestowed and granted, for how Thou hast fed and quenched, for how Thou hast guided and directed, for how Thou hast preserved and healed.   AB07117

O my God and the God of all things, my Creator and the Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the limbs of the wicked have trembled, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise   BH05151

Recite the verses of divine unity and magnify the Lord of peerless glory, "that Thou mayest turn every mention and invocation of mine into a single invocation, and engage me forever in Thy service".   AB05744

"My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy utterance and for having sent down unto me in Thy Most Great Prison that which nothing in creation can equal..."   BH02656

Then make the hearts of the pure ones throb with Thy remembrance at dawn and dusk, their tongues speak Thy praise night and day, and their breasts expand with the signs of Thy oneness in the early hours.   AB03041

O God, my Lord! Send Thy blessings upon the Tree of Thy Oneness, and cause to descend upon it, O my Lord, that which befitteth the loftiness of Thy bounty and the sovereignty of Thy mighty Self-Subsistence.   BB00417

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having made clear to me Thy path, and for having sent down to me Thy proof, and for having manifested what was hidden in Thy knowledge - a grace from Thee unto Thy loved ones.   BH05567

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee to make this servant of Thine a pillar of strength for all kingdoms, a refuge from perils, steadfast in all pathways, and a servant of Thy Cause among Thy servants.   AB07081

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for what Thou hast bestowed, honored, granted, conferred, enabled and confirmed. Verily, Thou art the Bestower, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB10854

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having given me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy utterance in Thy days and for having made me to know the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens.   BH03797

Glory be unto Thee, O our God! Aid us to remember Thee and praise Thee, and to accomplish that which will improve the affairs of Thy servants. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, and worthy to answer prayer.   BH01261

"Glory be unto Thee, O my God! All praise be unto Thee for having remembered me and all glory be unto Thee for having sent down upon me from the heaven of Thy grace that which shall immortalize me in Thy Manifest Book."  BH04935

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me through Thy loving-kindness and illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy eternity from the hand of Thy bounty.   BH03298

When thou dost inhale the fragrance of My loving-kindness, say: Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me in the prison of 'Akka, and thanks be unto Thee for having enabled me to turn towards Thy Most Glorious Horizon   BH08503

Praise be to Thee, O my God, and glory be to Thee, O my Aim, and greatness and laudation be to Thee, O my Beloved, for having confirmed me in recognition and made known to me Thy straight path and Thy mighty Message.   BH02255

"Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having made known unto me the Dayspring of Thy signs, the Dawning-Place of Thy lights, and the Manifestation of Thy Self, before Whom, when He appeared, all necks bowed down in submission."   BH05235

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having opened before my face the door of Thy knowledge, and made known to me Thy path, and shown me Thy signs, and strengthened me in that which most of Thy creatures were hindered from.   BH04146

My God, my God! All praise be unto Thee for having caused me to hear Thy call, for having guided me unto Thy path, for having shown me the traces of Thy Most Exalted Pen, and for having summoned me to the supreme heights.  BH11808

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having mentioned me in Thy Tablets and made me turn to Thy will, and become effaced before Thy good-pleasure, and a servant of Thy Cause, and one who speaks Thy praise amongst Thy servants   BH01785

Glorified art Thou, O Thou through Whom the Luminary of inner meanings hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of utterance, and the worlds of knowledge and wisdom have been adorned with the lights of proof and evidence!   BH02216

Raise thou thy hands in gratitude to the threshold of divine unity and say: 'O God! O Thou sanctified Lord! A myriad thanks be offered up to Thee for Thou hast made me firm in Thy Cause, and enabled me to speak out in Thy praise.'  AB01154

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having kindled the lamp of Thy oneness between Thy heaven and earth, and for having nourished it with the oil of Thy wisdom and Thy command, and protected it with the glass of Thy power and might.   BH08434

My God, my God! I perceive the fragrance of Thy bounty from Thy utterance and behold the lights of Thy daybreak from Thy horizon... I beseech Thee... to enable me to remember Thee and praise Thee throughout the nights and days.   BH04910

that we may arise to exalt Thy Word with the utmost joy and fragrance, remember Thee throughout the hours of night and day, call all to guidance, enjoin righteousness, and chant the verses of Thy unity amidst the concourse of creation   AB07006

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having given me to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the Kawthar of Thy utterance, and for having confirmed me in acknowledging that which Thou hast revealed in the Books of the Prophets and Messengers   BH09695

Praise be to Thee, O my God, my Lord, my Master and my Beloved, for having caused me to recognize the Manifestation of Thy Most Exalted Self in this latter resurrection, and for having enabled me to voice His praise between earth and heaven.   BH03191

O my God! Were I to attempt to mention Thee through all the letters of the Bayan, I would be powerless to do so. Therefore, O Lord, recompense each letter with the most excellent reward wherewith Thou dost recompense any letter in Thy presence  BB00256

In the prayer of Kumayl ibn Ziyad al-Nakha'i it is said: "Until all my deeds and devotions become one continuous devotion, and my state in Thy service eternal." We beseech Him to give His servants to drink from the Kawthar of this exalted word.   BH01181

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having illumined my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and sent down unto me from the clouds of Thy bounty that whose fragrance shall never cease throughout the duration of Thy dominion and Thy kingdom.   BH04811

Drink thou the Kawthar of bounty from the hand of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, and say: Praise be unto Thee, O Thou in Whose hand is my forelock, and thanks be unto Thee, O Thou Who hast mentioned me when I was wronged at the hands of the servants.   BH06815

Glory be unto Thee! O my God, Thou hast ever been sanctified from peers, and wilt ever remain, O my Desire, holy from all likeness. Thou art He Who hath originated all things through Thy Command, and brought all things into being through Thy wisdom.  BB00070

Praise be unto Thee for what Thou hast bestowed, and thanks be unto Thee for what Thou hast granted. Thou givest to whomsoever Thou willest, and confirmest whomsoever Thou willest...Verily Thou art the Bestower, the Giver, the Generous, the Merciful.  AB03042

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, to render all his deeds acceptable and all his efforts praiseworthy. Moreover, make his past works a treasure for him in the repositories of Thy protection and Thy preservation.  BH01323

Send down upon them from the heaven of Thy grace the rains of bounty and bestowal, and ordain for their affairs goodness and blessing, and exalt their names among all creatures. Verily, Thou art the Gracious, the Giver, the Beneficent, the All-Bountiful.  BH07957

Therefore, like a spiritual nightingale upon the mystic branch, cry out with divine melodies: "Holy and Sanctified is the Lord of the angels and the Spirit, the Lord of the Kingdom of the Unseen, the King of the Throne of Glory, the Most Glorious Beauty!"  AB08129

O my God! O Thou Who art the Maker of the heavens and of the earth, O Lord of the Kingdom! Thou well knowest the secrets of my heart, while Thy Being is inscrutable to all save Thyself. Thou seest whatsoever is of me, while no one else can do this save Thee.  BB00560

O my Lord! All praise be unto Thee for having made me recognize the Manifestation of Thy Self and cast into my heart the lights of love and sent unto me a Book of glory most bountiful. Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for this great bounty and mighty gift.  BH11729

"My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me when people were in manifest error. Glory be to Thee for having strengthened me when the people were behind a thick veil. Thanks be to Thee for having awakened me when the servants were in strange slumber."   BH02487

O thou who circlest in adoration about the Spot round which circle the Concourse on high! Raise thou thy hands in gratitude at the Threshold of the one true God, and say: O Thou the highest aspiration of every ardent lover! O Thou the Guide of every wandering soul!  AB07484

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having strengthened me, and made me to know Thee, and caused me to hear and to see, and brought me near until I stood before the gate of Thy bounty and grace, and attained unto that which most of Thy servants were deprived of.   BH00375

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having turned toward me from the direction of Thy prison and remembered me with that which the treasuries of kings and rulers cannot equal. I bear witness that Thou art verily the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.   BH11094

I beseech Thee by the breath whereby hearts and souls were attracted, in such wise that they hastened to the river of Thy nearness and drank from the choice wine of Thy love, to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise and in that whereby my mention may endure among Thy servants.   BH04790

O Lord! Thanks be unto Thee that Thou hast made this stranger intimate with Thee and admitted this destitute one to Thy shelter. Thou hast bestowed the water of life upon this burning thirsty one and brought this parched fish into the sweet Euphrates. Praise be unto Thee for this!   AB06919

Praise be unto Thee for having sent down unto me that which hath caused me to soar in the atmosphere of Thy love and to speak forth Thy beauteous praise. I beseech Thee to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee. Verily, Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful ones.   BH01020

O Pure One of God! These are Thy scattered flock, and these are Thy bewildered and unsettled lovers. Though we are poor and lowly, Thou art our Helper and Supporter. We are abject and sick, Thou art the Glorious Physician. We are destitute and captive, Thou art the Great Wealthy One.   AB05318

Again praise be to God, again praise be to God, again praise be to God for the wondrous bounty and the table sent down from the heaven of kindness and unity, upon which was inscribed the royal signature of the name of the All-Bountiful, upon him be the glory of God, the Lord of creation.   BH01187

Allah-u-Abha! O Thou Glory of the Most Glorious! I have wakened on this Naw-Ruz morning to find the lights of Thy holiness gleaming from all regions, the verses of Thy unity recited by the tongues of all things, and the tokens of Thy singleness evident in the scroll of the Book of Creation.  AB03562

My God, my God! Unto Thee be praise and glory, and unto Thee be thanksgiving and splendor, for having manifested the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens and the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Source of Thy knowledge and the Ocean of Thy generosity and bounty.  BH04353

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I testify that I was as one dead, and Thou didst adorn me with the ornament of being; I was heedless, and Thou didst made known to me Thy extended path; I was silent, and Thou didst cause me to speak through Thy bounty which pervadeth both the seen and the unseen.  BH03341

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me to Thy most exalted horizon, caused me to hear the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree, and enabled me to turn unto Thee when the divines and theologians of the earth turned away, save whom Thy Will hath desired and Thy Purpose hath chosen.  BH02566

Glorified art Thou, O God of Names and Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by the movement of Thy Most Exalted Pen, whereby Thou didst subdue all things, and by Thy Name which Thou didst make the Sovereign of names and the All-Ruling over earth and heaven, to send Thy blessings upon Thy Beloved...  BH00723

Praised be Thou, O my God, my Lord, my Support and my Goal! I testify that Thou hast fulfilled Thy promise, manifested Thy Cause, distinguished between truth and falsehood, sincerity and deception, aided the oppressed, and revealed that which was hidden from the eyes of Thy servants and Thy creation.  BH10748

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, and thanksgiving be unto Thee, O my Beloved, and glory be unto Thee, O Glory of those who are in the heavens and on earth, for having caused me to turn toward Thee and to speak Thy praise and to be attracted by Thy verses and to be detached from all else besides Thee  BH05620

Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who art the Goal of the world and the Beloved of the nations, for having guided me unto Thy path, shown me Thy way, and sent down for me Thy proof. I beseech Thee to ordain that I may, in all conditions, be mindful of Thy verses and hold fast unto the cord of Thy Cause.   BH05550

"We beseech God to assist him with the hosts of His verses and His evidences, to grant him that which befits His generosity and bounty, to aid him in serving His loved ones, and to make him a helper unto them, a supporter of them, and a witness for them. He is, verily, the Powerful, the All-Bounteous."   BH01456

I was thirsty, and Thou didst give me to drink from the sweet flowing Salsabil. I was fearful and trembling, and Thou didst grant me refuge and shelter. I was dead, and Thou didst bring me to life. I was in dark night, and Thou didst guide me to the luminous morn. A hundred thousand thanks be unto Thee!  AB07561

O God, O Generous One, O Merciful One! I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath conquered all created things, and by Thy sovereignty which hath encompassed all existence, to ordain for every particle of Thy creation a speaking tongue in Thy remembrance, praise, and thanksgiving for Thy bounties and favors.   BH00756

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy straight path and made known to me Thy momentous announcement. I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name, whereby the hearts of the nations were thrown into commotion, to assist me in all conditions to remember and praise Thee among Thy handmaidens.   BH03769

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the hands of Thy Cause and the salamander of the fire of Thy love to ordain for those who have turned to Thee, both men and women, from the ocean of Thy bounty the pearls of Thy wisdom and knowledge, and from the heaven of Thy generosity the stars of Thy remembrance and praise.  BH04877

O God! Thanks be unto Thee for having led this heart and soul to the Beloved, and bestowed upon this destitute one a boundless portion. Thou didst summon this lost one to Thy path and didst grant this wanderer shelter and refuge beneath Thy protection. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the Everlasting, the All-Merciful.  AB09243

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having caused me to recognize the Dayspring of Thy signs, and shown me the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance, and enabled me to behold the horizon of Thy Revelation, and guided me to Thy path, and honored me with Thy traces, and illumined my heart with the lights of Thy knowledge.   BH02158

O my God and the God of all worlds, my Object of worship and the Object of worship of all who dwell in the realm of possibility! I acknowledge and confess my inability to render thanks to Thee as beseemeth Thy station, but Thou art the All-Bountiful - accept from me that which is worthy and befitting Thy most holy court.   BH05328

"Glory be to Thee, O my God! Thine are the bounty and the favors. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name through which Thou didst separate between the nations and didst manifest what was hidden in Thy knowledge and treasured in the repository of Thy wisdom, to make me aided in all conditions to remember Thee and praise Thee."   BH05417

O my God! By the judgment of Thy servants and what Thou art worthy of, Thou shalt magnify the sovereignty of Thy dominion without anyone else magnifying it. Thine is the creation and the command, O my God, before and after. All the great ones bow down before Thy greatness, and all the mighty ones are humbled before Thy might.  BB00011

My Lord and my Hope! Strengthen me in this mighty Cause and gird up my loins in Thy service and expand my breast through the spreading of the fragrances of Thy mercy and illumine my sight by witnessing the signs of Thy power and loose my tongue in Thy praise and make flow from my pen the exposition of Thy proofs and evidences  AB01767

O God! Thanks be unto Thee that Thou hast led this heart and soul to the Beloved, and bestowed an endless portion upon this destitute one. Thou hast called this lost one to Thine own path, and given shelter and solace to this bewildered one in Thy protection. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the Everlasting, the All-Merciful.  AB09243

Glorified art Thou, O God! Thee do we worship before all worlds. Glorified art Thou, O God! Before Thee do we prostrate ourselves before all who prostrate. Glorified art Thou, O God! Unto Thee do we turn in devotion before all who are devoted. Glorified art Thou, O God! In Thee do we trust before all Thy servants who supplicate.  BB00004

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me and given me to drink and caused me to know Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and by the lights of Thy countenance from the most sublime horizon, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the kingdom of names, to open before my face the doors of Thy grace and bounty...   BH03131

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having remembered me while I was in an impregnable prison. I beseech Thee to rain down upon me from the clouds of Thy bounty the showers of Thy mercy which have preceded existence in both the unseen and visible worlds. Praise be to Thee and thanks be to Thee, O Thou in Whose grasp are the reins of glory and majesty!   BH04948

My Lord and Master! Thou seest the breasts expanded through the verses of Thy holy might, and the hearts gladdened by the fragrant breaths wafting from the garden of Thy companionship, and the spirits revived by the gentle breeze blowing from the meadows of Thy oneness, and the hearts attracted by the fragrances diffused from the gardens of Thy mercy.   AB05936

O God! Send blessings upon the First Unity and its numbers among the people of Baha. O God! Send blessings upon the First Unity and its numbers among the people of Glory. [continues through all iterations] O God! Send blessings upon Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest and the letters of His Self among the people of Baha. [continues through all iterations]  BB00358

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me to acknowledge the sanctification of Thy Being from all similitudes and the detachment of Thine Essence from all likenesses. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Throne and the mysteries of Thy Book to enable me in all circumstances to remember Thee and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book   BH03480

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me when I was among the heedless. I beseech Thee by Thy Fig which was raised up in the Most Exalted Paradise, and by the Olive Tree which stood tall before the crimson chambers, and by Thy binding command which subdued the world, to assist me to remember Thee and praise Thee and to stand firm in Thy Cause.   BH08297

O forgiving, beneficent Lord! Praise and glorification befit Thee, for Thou hast made this silent country full of fire, and brought these lifeless unconscious ones to enthusiasm and excitement. Thou gavest hope to the hopeless and showed the way to the treasury of life to the destitute. Thou made the poor wealthy and bestowed order and arrangement upon the helpless.   AB02346

O Kind Lord! O Glorious God! A hundred thousand thanks to Thee for having bestowed sustenance upon the destitute and granted remedy to the afflicted. Thou hast made the poor wealthy and placed balm upon the wounds of the injured. Thou hast given solace to the helpless and granted shelter to the wanderers. Thou art the Kind One, Thou art God, Thou art the All-Merciful.  AB08549

O my God! Thou art the Sovereign of sovereigns and the Compassionate to the downtrodden. Thou art the Dispeller of doubts. Thou dost enrich whomsoever Thou willest and dost impoverish whomsoever Thou willest. Thou dost exalt whomsoever Thou willest and dost abase whomsoever Thou willest. Verily, Thou art and hast ever been the Omnipotent, the All-Powerful, the Mighty.  BH11287

"My God, my God! Thou art He through Whose signs were set in motion the spheres of existence, and through Whose bounty appeared the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge...I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of Thy Book, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue Thy earth and Thy heaven, to assist me to make mention of Thee and praise Thee"   BH04489

Glory be unto Thee, O Thou at Whose mention all mention boweth down, and at Whose light's dawning all lights humble themselves. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue all things and didst open the cities of the Kingdom of Names, to assist Thy servants in Thy remembrance and praise, and to enable them to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.   BH00722

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Send down upon me at all times that which behooveth the wondrous nature of Thy mercy, for I worship none but Thee, and stand in devotion before none but Thee, and remember none but Thee, and testify to the unity of none but Thee, and sanctify none but Thee. Glory be unto Thee! There is no God but Thee! Glory be unto Thee! I am of them that remember Thee.  BB00004

O Lord! Confirm and aid this assemblage. Confirm these souls through the breaths of Thy Holy Spirit. Enlighten the eyes by the vision of these radiant lights, and make the ears joyful through the anthems of Thy call to service. O God! Verily, we have gathered here in the fragrance of Thy love. We have turned to Thy Kingdom. We seek naught save Thee and desire nothing save Thy good pleasure.  ABU0260

O my God! O my God! Praise be unto Thee! for Thou hast created me of the most excellent fabric, in the most honored form, and in the most exalted kind of Thy creation; didst nurture me from the breast of Thy favor, didst nurse me in the bosom of Thy mercy, until I grew up under the protection of Thy divinity, in the cradle of Thy training, and reached full growth through Thy favor and grace.   AB02490

O God! Verily Thou art the Creator of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them. Thou hast created me and all things, sustained me and all things, caused me and all things to die, given life to me and all things, raised me and all things, and made me the mirror of Thy Self, the crystal of Thy Being, the dawning-place of Thy Holiness and the dayspring of Thy Self-Subsistence unto all the worlds.   BB00110

Glory be unto Thee, O my God, with whatsoever Thou lovest to be glorified before all things and after them, and from the right of all things and their left, and from before all things and behind them, and above all things and beneath them, and from the direction of all things and their encompassment - a glorification wherewith none hath ever glorified Thee before, nor shall anyone glorify Thee hereafter with its like  BB00011

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having enabled Thy loved ones to carry out Thy command and manifest that which Thou didst desire through Thy sovereignty. O Lord! Thou knowest that I desired for no one save Thy remembrance and praise, and sought from no soul that which Thou hadst bestowed through Thy bounty and favor. I summoned them in all conditions purely for Thy sake to the court of Thy grace.   BH01139

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and holding fast to the cord of Thy Prophet and Thy Chosen One, Whom Thou hast made the Sovereign of the Messengers and the Guide of all paths. I beseech Thee by Him and by His family and companions to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise amongst Thy servants. Verily Thou art powerful to do what Thou willest. There is no God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH05277

Magnified, O Lord my God, be Thy Name, whereby the trees of the garden of Thy Revelation have been clad with verdure, and been made to yield the fruits of holiness during this Springtime when the sweet savors of Thy favors and blessings have been wafted over all things, and caused them to bring forth whatsoever had been preordained for them in the Kingdom of Thine irrevocable decree and the Heaven of Thine immutable purpose.  BH08824

Glory be to Thee, O my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me. Glory be to Thee, O my God! Praise be to Thee for having made me know Thee. Glory be to Thee, O my God! Praise be to Thee for having honored me, brought me into Thy presence, caused me to hear and to see. Glory be to Thee, O my God! Praise be to Thee for having favored me, enabled me to serve Thee, and caused me to speak forth Thy praise and glorification.   BH04101

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me, and all bounty be Thine for having given me to drink, and all glory be to Thee for having called me, and all thanksgiving be unto Thee for having remembered me, and all generosity be Thine for having made me to know Thee, and all grace be Thine for having taught me, and all favor be unto Thee for having caused me to hear and to behold Thy signs, Thy Book, and the Kawthar of Thy utterance.   BH02627

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden. Thou hast created me through Thy grace and brought me forth through Thy generosity and enabled me to recognize the Dayspring of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thy signs, and the Manifestation of Thy Self on a day when most of Thy creatures turned away from Thee, violated Thy covenant and Thy testament, disputed Thy signs, and denied Thy proof and Thy testimony.  BH01063

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having drawn me nigh unto Thee, and brought me into Thy presence, and honored me with meeting Thee, and given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy utterance, and made known to me Thy momentous Message and Thy straight Path. I am he who, O my God, was heedless - the revelations of Thy loving-kindness taught me; who was asleep - the hand of Thy bounty awakened me; who was far removed - the manifestations of Thy grace drew me nigh.  BH00918

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Thou seest me rolling my face in the dust of humility and contrition, supplicating toward the Kingdom of Thy Might, yearning for the contemplation of Thy Greatness, entreating Thy Grandeur, invoking at the Threshold of Thy Mercifulness, beseeching the realm of Thy Singleness, acknowledging my shortcomings, longing for Thy bounty, desiring Thy concealing veil and expecting the outpouring of the rain of Thy favor upon all the meadows and mountains!  AB00205

Unto Thee be praise, O Lord of Names, and unto Thee be glory, O Goal of the hearts of them that know. I beseech Thee by Thyself and by Thy Manifestation and by the City wherein was established the throne of Thy grandeur, and by the breezes wherein wafted the fragrance of reunion with Thee, and by the ocean of Thy greatest signs and the manifestations of Thy power in the kingdom of creation, to enable me to serve Thy Cause in Thy days and to make mention of Thee amongst Thy servants.   BH04354

Therefore, O my God, make all my glory in meeting Thee, not in meeting any besides Thee; and make all my majesty for the day of meeting Thee, not for the day of meeting any besides Thee; and make all my beauty for the day of meeting Thee, not for meeting any besides Thee; and make all my grandeur for the day of appearing before Thee, not for appearing before any other than Thee; and make all my light for the day when Thou shalt bring me into Thy presence, not into the presence of any besides Thee.  BB00011

My God, my God! Thou seest my turning toward Thy horizon, my orientation to the lights of Thy countenance, and my rising to serve Thee and to serve Thy loved ones. I beseech Thee by the trees which Thou hast planted by the hands of Thy bounty, and by the light of Thy face from which have shone forth the suns of Thy Cause from the horizons of the heaven of Thy wisdom, to ordain through Thy Most Exalted Pen for Thy loved ones that which will solace their eyes, gladden their hearts, and tranquilize their souls.  BH04951

Glory be unto Thee, O God! O my God! Thou art the First, and naught is before Thee. Thou art the Last, and naught is after Thee. Thou art the Manifest, and naught is above Thee. Thou art the Hidden, and naught is below Thee. Thou art the Almighty, and none is Thy peer. Thou hast risen above all heights and drawn nigh in utter remoteness. Thou hast caused all the spheres to move at the testimony of Thy Proof, and the Pens in the Most Exalted Paradise have fallen still at the manifestation of Thy countenance.   BB00103

O Lord, Forgiver and Creator! Through Thy profound grace and mighty generosity Thou hast illumined the horizons of existence with the lights of bounty and made the world of creation radiant with the brilliant rays of the Sun of favor. The spring rain of Thy grace has made the world of existence verdant and flourishing, and Thy Most Great All-encompassing bounty has clothed creation with the new garment of the new creation. Thy favors have encompassed the world of existence and Thy benevolence has included the seen and unseen.  AB00804

O Lord! Praise and glory befit and beseem Thee, for Thou hast bestowed life upon this lifeless and dejected one, and guided this lost and wandering one to the shelter of safety. Thou hast given refuge to this homeless one in the haven of Thy favors and quenched the thirst of this parched soul with the sealed wine and sweet living waters. For Thou hast caused him to attain the Most Great Guidance and singled him out for the Most Great Gift. O Creator! Thanks be to Thee, praise be to Thee, glory be to Thee, laudation be to Thee.  AB06304

O my God! How can I extol Thy majesty on this Friday, knowing my nothingness before Thee? Yet since Thou hast placed the signs of Thy Lordship within my soul, I commune with Thee in my solitude and exile midst the mountains during these changing circumstances, that perchance the angels may hear my voice and call upon Thee due to my grief. Through this, Thou mayest look upon me with a near glance that would transform my sorrow into the joy of the lights of Thy Self-Sufficiency, and my lamentations into the witnessing of Thy holy fragrances.   BB00360

Glorified art Thou, O Thou at Whose separation the hearts of those near unto Thee among Thy servants have melted, and at Whose remoteness the tears of the sincere ones among Thy creatures have fallen! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst cause the mountains to be scattered in dust and the earth to become a level plain, and by the Most Great Word whereby Thou didst subdue all who are in earth and heaven, to make me in all conditions strengthened through Thy loving-kindness, speaking Thy praise, and standing firm in service to Thy Cause.   BH03253

O Lord! Assist them through Thy grace and favor, strengthen them through Thy might and sovereignty, teach them Thy proof and evidence, cause them to speak Thy praise, make their faces sincere before Thy face, illumine their hearts with Thy remembrance, expand their breasts through Thy verses, gather their souls beneath Thy banners, and make them the lamps of unity, the emblems of sanctity, and the lights of detachment, that they may shine with Thy mention throughout all regions and be illumined by Thy radiant light from the dawning-place of effulgence.   AB00202

O divine Providence! O Thou forgiving Lord! Sinner though I be, I have no refuge save Thyself. All praise be Thine, that in my wanderings over mountains and plains, my toils and troubles on the seas, Thou hast answered still my cries for help, and confirmed me, and favoured me, and honoured me with service at Thy Threshold. To a feeble ant, Thou hast given Solomon's might. Thou hast made of a gnat a lion in the thicket of Thy Mercy. Thou hast bestowed on a drop the swelling waves of the sea, Thou hast carried up a mote to the pinnacles of grace. Whatever was achieved, was made possible through Thee.   AB02467

O my Lord! I testify that Thou art God and that there is none other God but Thee. Thou hast ever been in the heights of glory, and wilt ever abide in the sublimity of majesty and grandeur. O my Lord! Thou seest me turning unto Thee and detached from all else save Thee. Have mercy upon me, O my God, through the wonders of Thy mercy; then grant me to drink from the Kawthar of Thy bounty. Then enable me, O my God, to remember and praise Thee in such wise that the veils of them who are heedless of the Dayspring of Thy most beautiful names and the Dawning-Place of Thy most exalted attributes shall not prevent me.   BH04127

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers, by Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones, by the lights of Thy throne, and by Him through Whom Thou didst manifest the law of detachment and sent down the word of unity, through Whom the suns of ordinances shone forth from the horizons of all lands, and the tongues of all servants uttered that Thou art God and there is none other God but Thee - to make me in all conditions one who speaks Thy praise and glorification, who acts according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, and who is content with what Thou hast ordained for me through Thy decree and Thy will.  BH09737

My God, my God! Thou hearest and knowest that this Thy servant hath testified to the unity of Thy Being and its sanctity, and to the immaculacy of Thine Essence and its sovereignty, and hath acknowledged Thy power, Thy grandeur and Thine authority. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and by Thy Prophets and Messengers, and by Him through Whom Thou didst unlock the gates of bounty unto all being and of generosity unto the world - He through Whom was manifested the decree of unity amongst the peoples - to assist me in all conditions to remember and praise Thee, and to grant me success in that whereby my mention may endure throughout the permanence of Thy dominion.   BH00605

Glorified art Thou, O my God! This is the garment of glory which Thou hast sent to the city of Thy oneness, and this is the wondrous Book which Thou hast brought forth through the sovereign power of Thy grace, and this is the light of majesty which Thou hast caused to shine forth from the horizon of Thine essence, and this is the camphor tree which Thou hast planted in the meadows of Thy mercy, and this is the trumpet of the Cause into which Thou hast breathed Thy spirit and sent unto those who love Thee. Glorified art Thou, O my God! Perfect then Thy favor upon Thy loved ones through the manifestations of Thy glory, for verily Thou art the All-Powerful, the Self-Subsisting.  BH09195

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Send down upon the First Temple all the splendours of Thy most resplendent Beauty, and all the majesty of Thy most sublime Majesty, and all the comeliness of Thy most perfect Beauty, and all the grandeur of Thy most supreme Greatness, and all the effulgence of Thy most brilliant Light, and all the vastness of Thy most encompassing Mercy, and all the perfection of Thy most complete Word, and all the excellence of Thy most perfect Attributes, and all the greatness of Thy most mighty Names, and all the might of Thy most invincible Power, and all the potency of Thy most irresistible Will, and all the penetration of Thy most consummate Knowledge, and all the dominion of Thy most extensive Authority   BB00660

O God, my God, and my Desire, and my Adored One, and my Master, and my Mainstay, and my utmost Hope, and my supreme Aspiration! Thou seest me turning towards Thee, holding fast unto the cord of Thy bounty, clinging to the hem of Thy generosity, acknowledging the sanctity of Thy Self and the purity of Thine Essence, and testifying to Thy unity and Thy oneness. I bear witness that Thou art the One, the Single, the Incomparable, the Ever-Abiding. Thou didst not take unto Thyself a partner in Thy dominion, nor didst Thou choose a peer for Thyself upon earth. All created things have borne witness unto that which the Tongue of Thy grandeur hath testified ere their creation. Verily Thou art God; there is none other God but Thee! From everlasting Thou wast sanctified from the mention of Thy servants, and exalted above the description of Thy creatures.  BH00005


