to write down for every one who hath turned unto Thee, and observed the fast prescribed by Thee  BH01125

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by them that have clung to the cord of fasting out of love for Thy Cause   BH05450

Blessed is he that observeth the fast wholly for Thy sake and with absolute detachment from all things except Thee. Assist me and assist them, O my Lord, to obey Thee and to keep Thy precepts.   BH07657

O my God, that on this day of the month of fasting, which Thou hast honored and wherein Thou didst reveal the Qur'an as guidance, and which Thou hast distinguished and made a guidance for all the worlds and a remembrance for the humble  BB00102

Say: O God of names and creator of heaven and earth! I beg of Thee by Thy Name, the All-Glorious, to accept the fast of those who have fasted for love of Thee and for the sake of Thy good-pleasure and have carried out what Thou hast bidden them in Thy Books and Tablets.   BH10127

We have fasted this day, O my Lord, by Thy command and Thy bidding in accordance with what Thou hast revealed in Thy perspicuous Book. We have withheld our souls from passion and from whatsoever Thou abhorest until the day drew to an end and the time arrived to break the Fast.  BH00437

I beseech Thee to grant that I may be assisted to observe the fast wholly for Thy sake, O Thou Who art full of majesty and glory! Empower me, then, O my God, to be reckoned among them that have clung to Thy laws and precepts for the sake of Thee alone, their eyes fixed on Thy face.  BH00848

Grant, O my Lord, that this fast may become a river of life-giving waters and may yield the virtue wherewith Thou hast endowed it. Cleanse Thou by its means the hearts of Thy servants... Do not bring our fasts to an end with this fast, O my Lord, nor the covenants Thou hast made with this covenant.   BH00778

Thou hast endowed every hour of these days with a special virtue, inscrutable to all except Thee, Whose knowledge embraceth all created things. Thou hast, also, assigned unto every soul a portion of this virtue in accordance with the Tablet of Thy decree and the Scriptures of Thine irrevocable judgment.  BH01888

Praise be unto Thee, O Lord my God! We have observed the Fast in conformity with Thy bidding and break it now through Thy love and Thy good-pleasure. Deign to accept, O my God, the deeds that we have performed in Thy path wholly for the sake of Thy beauty with our faces set towards Thy Cause, free from aught else but Thee.  BH10581

I entreat Thee, O my Lord, by these days and by all such as have during that period clung to the cord of Thy commandments, and laid hold on the handle of Thy precepts, to grant that unto every soul may be assigned a place within the precincts of Thy court, and a seat at the revelation of the splendors of the light of Thy countenance.  BH05849

O my God and the God of names, and Creator of the heavens! I beseech Thee by Thy greatest signs and by the manifestations of Thy sanctification in the kingdom of creation, to adorn the temples of those who fast with the robe of Thy grace and forgiveness. Then ordain for them, through Thy bounty and favors, the good of this world and the next  BH06667

I beseech Thee by the Heart of the world which Thou hast made the Qiblih of the nations, to send down upon them who have submitted to the authority of Thy Cause and have fasted in their quest for Thy good-pleasure that which will make them to be numbered with those who, in their love for Thee, have detached themselves from all that is on earth.  BH05990

The days have been honored, O my God, by the days which Thou hast named Ha. Each day thereof Thou hast made a herald and messenger to announce unto men the days whereon Thou hast prescribed fasting for Thy creatures and Thy servants, that each soul may prepare for their arrival, designate a place for them in his heart, and purify it through Thy name, the Lord, for their descent upon him.  BH01151

Thou seest, O God of Mercy, Thou Whose power pervadeth all created things, these servants of Thine, Thy thralls, who, according to the good-pleasure of Thy Will, observe in the daytime the fast prescribed by Thee, who arise, at the earliest dawn of day, to make mention of Thy Name, and to celebrate Thy praise, in the hope of obtaining their share of the goodly things that are treasured up within the treasuries of Thy grace and bounty.   BH02806

This is the first day wherein Thou hast prescribed the fast for Thy loved ones. I beseech Thee by Thy Self and by him who hath fasted for love of Thee and Thy good-pleasure, not for his own desire and hatred of his Lord, and by Thy most excellent names and most exalted attributes, to purify Thy servants from the love of aught else but Thee and draw them nigh unto the Dayspring of the lights of Thy countenance and the Seat of the throne of Thy oneness.  BH00154
