Bestow upon me a pure heart, like unto a pearl.   AB11605

I beseech Thee to make me pure in my love for Thee   BH09906

My Lord! Sanctify my hem from all that is unworthy of Thy sanctification and glorification  AB11239

Create in me a pure heart, O my God, and renew a tranquil conscience within me, O my Hope!   BH04421

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Holy, Most Glorious Beauty to make the hearts of Thy servants sanctified from self and desire   BH11071

O my God, my God! Preserve this servant from the evil of self and passion, and adorn him with the light of righteousness and godliness.  BH09205

O Lord! Send down from the heaven of Thy gifts that which will purify hearts and souls from whatsoever is repugnant unto Thy good-pleasure   BH07114

"O my Lord! Even as Thou hast cleansed my body with this water, purify me from all that veils me from knowing Thee between earth and heaven."  BH01025

We beseech God to sanctify your hearts from the mention of aught else but Him, to purify your station from all that His good-pleasure abhorreth  BH09471

I beseech Thee...to purify me, through the Kawthar of Thy grace and the Salsabil of Thy bounties, from whatsoever is abhorrent to Thy good-pleasure   BH08833

Then cause me to drink, O my God, from the Kawthar of Thy bounty that which will purify me from all else save Thee and draw me nigh unto Thy good-pleasure  BH07302

O Lord! Clothe me with the robe of forgiveness and purify me from whatsoever prevents me from turning to Thee, O Thou in Whose hand is the dominion of grace and bounty!   BH03192

Cleanse me with the waters of Thy mercy, O my Lord, and make me wholly Thine, and cause me to approach the Tabernacle of Thy Cause and the adored Sanctuary of Thy Presence.   BH07658

O Lord! Purify the souls from the conditions of those who are heedless of Thy remembrance, who oppose Thy Cause, who are negligent of Thy Covenant, who are veiled from Thy effulgence  AB09143

O my Lord! Purify the souls from the conditions of those who are heedless of Thy remembrance, who oppose Thy Cause, who are negligent of Thy Covenant, who are veiled from Thy effulgence.  AB09143

Then purify me, O my Beloved, with the living waters of Thy Cause and the Kawthar of Thy paradise, that there may remain in my outward and inward being no trace of the odor of Thine enemies  BH06687

Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Remembrance to illumine my heart with the light of Thy knowledge and to sanctify me from all that Thy good-pleasure abhorreth.   BH06140

O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! Sanctify Thy loved ones from the promptings of self and passion, and adorn them with the ornament of holiness among Thy servants   BH01488

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by the mysteries of Thy Cause that Thou purify me with the waters of sanctification, that I may become worthy of Thy remembrance and befitting of Thy praise.   BH09449

O my Lord! Purify the hearts of Thy servants from idle fancies and vain imaginings, then draw them nigh through Thy sovereignty unto a station wherein whosoever draweth nigh unto it becometh protected from the Most Great Terror.  BH07783

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the Name through which the sincere ones hastened unto the seat of Thy throne and the unitarians unto the dawning-place of the lights of Thy countenance, to send down upon our hearts from the clouds of Thy bounty that which will purify them from all else beside Thee and sanctify them from the mention of aught except Thyself   BH04530

With all humility and contrition I beseech Thy holy Kingdom and the luminous horizon of Thy mercy to grant this servant a pure heart, a breast expanded by the outpouring of Thy favors, a countenance radiant with the lights of Thy mysteries, a sincere intention in Thy Cause, a spirit at rest through Thy bounty and beneficence, and a goodly future through Thy grace and generosity.   AB03040

O Lord! Sprinkle upon her heart from the depths of the ocean of Thy remembrance that which will attract her unto Thee and cause her to speak of Thy praise and glorification among Thy handmaidens. Then inscribe upon the tablet of her heart with Thy Most Exalted Pen the verses of Thy love and the mysteries of Thy knowledge in such wise that the affairs and manifestations of the world shall not efface them.  BH03357

Say: O my God, my God! I beseech Thee...to assist Thy loved ones to be trustworthy and religious, lest there appear from them that which beseemeth not Thy days and Thy Manifestation. O Lord! Thou beholdest them clinging to Thy cord - disappoint them not of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones among Thy sincere ones. O Lord! Adorn them with the ornament of righteousness, then preserve them from the evil of self and passion.   BH01242

O God, my God! Purify the hearts of Thy loved ones from attachment to aught else but Thee, and sanctify the hearts of Thy chosen ones from all save Thee. Make them detached from all affairs except the affairs of Thy mercy, and purified from every purpose save the manifestation of the lights of Thy spirituality. O Lord! Aid them to sincerity in all conditions and submission to Thy will in all matters and traces. Make them a sign of Thy oneness in the kingdom of earth and heaven, and a banner of Thy singleness among the concourse of created things, and the essence of detachment through Thy conquering power that transforms the reality of contingent beings. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Omnipotent.  AB00190
