
O my Lord! Ordain for me what is best in this world and the world to come   BH09408

O Lord! Confirm us, grant us success, send down Thy clear proof, bestow Thy favors  AB09534

I beseech Him, exalted be He, to open before your face the door of His bounty and generosity   BH03954

"I beseech Thee...to ordain for me by Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will aid and benefit me"   BH05826

"I beseech Thee...to ordain for Thy loved ones that which beseemeth Thy generosity and bounty."   BH06856

I beseech Thee by Thy bounty and grace to aid me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH09923

I sat in darkness softly reciting the prayer of the Bab until near dawn when sleep finally overtook me.  ABU0244

O Lord! Answer his prayer, facilitate his affairs, and perfect his joy through the attainment of his hopes  AB10810

O Lord! Make them successful in that which is befitting, O Forgiver! Confirm them in that which is worthy.  AB11201

We beseech God to assist him in what he desires and enable him to achieve what He loves and is pleased with   BH03314

Then aid, O my God, Thy servant who seeketh no helper other than Thee and desireth no supporter besides Thee.  BH02878

O Lord! Aid these servants and handmaidens of Thine by the outpourings of Thy mercy and the effusions of Thy grace.  AB11040

My Lord, cause me to enter with truth, and cause me to depart with truth, and grant me from Thy presence an authority to assist.  AB11010

This servant of Baha also supplicates at His Threshold with humility and entreaty that you may be assisted and confirmed in all things.  AB10971

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Countenance and Thy Most Pure Hem to assist me in that which Thou lovest and with which Thou art well-pleased   BH06271

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me successful in that which Thou hast sent down in Thy manifest Book  BH10735

We beseech God, exalted be He, to assist thee in that which is befitting for His days. Verily, He is the Helper, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH10896

We beseech God to assist all to serve Him and obey Him, and to ordain for His loved ones that which shall profit them in this world and the next.   BH08729

I have raised suppliant hands to the Supreme Kingdom, beseeching abundant bounty for that beloved one who is attracted to the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB11388

We beseech God to assist thee in His Cause, to rain down mercy upon thee from His presence, and to grant thee a seat of truth with His near servants.  BH06518

My Lord! Thou seest this weak one who hath clung to the cord of Thy power and raised his hands in supplication toward the heaven of Thy bounty and grace   BH08376

I implore God that they may be assisted in all conditions and attain that which is with Him. Verily, He is the best of hearers and the best of answerers.   BH02852

O Lord! Aid him through Your merciful confirmations, assist him in all affairs, and protect him from every treacherous transgressor and frustrated envier.  AB05320

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great and Most Glorious Name to assist me in that which will elevate my station and my rank among Thy servants and Thy creation.  BH11883

O Lord! Grant me Thy confirmation and bestow upon me Thy grace, that I may arise to serve, don the robe of bounty, and drink from the spring of Thy favors.  AB10855

O Lord! I am weak - strengthen me in Thy Cause. I am poor - enrich me from the treasures of Thy Kingdom. I am lowly - aid me through the sovereignty of Thy might.  AB00499

Glorify thyself on My behalf, then beseech God to bestow upon us that which He hath bestowed upon thee and to deliver us from the world and its hardships and torments.  AB10241

O Lord! Make affairs easy, expand our breasts, grant abundant grace, and admit us to the paradise of joy and delight, through Thy mercy, O Mighty One, O All-Forgiving One!  AB11497

I entreat Thee, by Him who is the Day-Spring of Thy names and the Dawning-Place of Thine attributes, to ordain for me what will enable me to arise to serve Thee and to extol Thy virtues.  BH03629

We beseech God to assist thee and make thee successful at all times in that which will draw thee near unto Him. Verily He is the Generous, the All-Bountiful in the beginning and in the end  BH05213

Rather, he needs prayers at the threshold of the All-Glorious, that the confirmation of the Abha Beauty may grant such strength to this weak leader that he may manage to answer some of them  AB12361

Verily, one servant can intercede for many, for the ocean of divine generosity is surging and the sun of bounty is manifest and radiant. Therefore thy intercession hath been accepted before God.   BH05357

O God, I beseech Thee, O Succorer, O Help in Peril...that Thou convey my greeting to Thy righteous servants and Thy wanderers in the earth, and urge them to aid me and help me against my enemies.  BB00537

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy servant who hath cast away all else save Thee, turning toward the horizon of Thy bestowals. Then ordain for him every good thing which Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.  BH10580

I beseech Thee to assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with, and to withhold from me that which is unworthy of Thee, O Lord of all men and Master of the hereafter and the former times!   BH04138

O Lord! Straighten for them the Path, appoint for them the guide which shall lead them to the door of Thy Inexhaustible Mercy, facilitate for them their affairs and shower upon them Thy heavenly Grace.  AB10278

May this assemblage tread Thy path, seek Thy mystery, behold Thy face, acquire Thy characteristics. O Lord! Grant infinite favors, make the treasure of guidance free that these helpless ones may find help.  AB06464

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Tree called out and the Rock spoke forth, to aid Thy servants who have turned towards Thy most exalted horizon and drawn nigh unto Thy most sublime Word.  BH09763

I seek the intercession of Muhammad and His family with Thee, by the glory of Thy grandeur. Look upon me with a near glance befitting the sovereignty of Thy might. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Bestower.   BB00647

O God! Open Thou the way for this helpless one, grant Thou the remedy to this ailing one and bestow Thy healing upon this afflicted one. With burning heart and tearful eyes I supplicate Thee at Thy Threshold.   AB05167

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy power and might, Thy sovereignty and dominion, to assist me to serve Thy Cause, that there may appear from me that which will establish my remembrance in Thy kingdom and Thy dominion   BH08915

At a time when Abdul-Baha turns his face toward the Sacred Threshold and seeks intercession at the court of the Lord of Hosts, he remembered you and commenced writing this letter, offering prayers to the Abha Kingdom  AB06410

At all times I am gladdened by thoughts of you and I beseech divine favors and assistance, that you may become the recipients of His aid and be encompassed by the bounties of Him Who is the Hidden Bestower of favors.   AB08983

O Lord! Send successive confirmations and success from the Kingdom of Mysteries to these righteous ones, and make them successful in every good endeavor, for they are deserving of every bounty and worthy of every gift.  AB11160

I beseech Thee by Him Who conversed upon Sinai, through Whom the trumpet was sounded and the resurrection appeared, to assist Thy loved ones and Thy chosen ones to accomplish that which Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book.  BH04233

Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having created me and manifested me and guided me to Thy straight path. I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and the Seal of Thy Messengers to assist me in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH04945

My God, my God! Leave me not to myself. Ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones. Then open before my face the door of Thy bounty. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Protector of what was and what shall be.  BH04938

I beseech Thee by the suns of the heaven of Thy wisdom and the waves of the ocean of Thy grace to make me in all circumstances turned toward the lights of Thy countenance and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy generosity.   BH11389

And if thou shouldst read any of the blessed prayers with devotion, supplication and detachment, seeking divine assistance, thy prayer will be answered. Verily, He answereth him who calleth upon Him, and He is the Hearer of Prayer.  AB05256

O Lord! Thou seest me turning unto Thee and holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty. I implore Thee by Thine ancient generosity and by Thy Most Great Name to ordain for me that which befitteth Thy grace, Thy bounty and Thy bestowal.   BH09965

O God! By their right in Thy Book and their station in Thy knowledge, I beseech Thee to bless them with all Thy revelations, breezes, manifestations and stations which know no cessation, and to fulfill this need of mine now, now, now!   BB00341

O God! Praise be unto thee for all these. Assist thy servant who has turned unto Thee and who has clung to Thy Cord, adhered to Thy hem, so that he may attain that which is beloved and desirable in both this world and the world to come.  AB03607

O my Lord! I am he who hath turned toward the horizon of Thy bounty, clinging to the cord of Thy loving care and holding fast to the hem of Thy generosity. Send down, then, upon me from the clouds of Thy giving that which beseemeth Thee.  BH11136

His honor Aqa Muhammad-'Ali is occupied with thy mention and all are beseeching and hoping from God that He may bestow such success that thou mayest attain to that which hath been the ultimate desire of thyself and all the friends of God.  BH07555

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and by the Ark which Thou hast ordained for the people of Thy Baha, to open before my face the door of Thy bounty and to ordain for me that which shall profit me through Thy Name amidst Thy creation.   BH11110

My God, my God! Thou seest the weak one seeking the dawning-place of Thy strength and the dayspring of Thy power, the sick one the Kawthar of Thy healing, the weary one the kingdom of Thy utterance, and the poor one the heaven of Thy wealth and bounty.  BH05270

I press my brow to the dust and soil my face with the earth of lowliness, powerlessness and utter submission, supplicating Thee at eventide and dawn, and beseeching Thee in the darkness of night and the brightness of day, that Thou mayest assist Thy servant   AB09131

O Succorer! O Fulfiller! O Deliverer! O Liberator! O Savior! O Reliever! O Opener! O Comforter! O Friend! O Compassionate One! O Kind One! O Clement One! O my Lord! O my Master! Answer!  BB00537

O God! O God! We beg of Thee by all the Names by which Thou art known, to exalt the humiliation of Thy chosen ones by Thy glory, their weakness by Thy strength, their impotence by Thine omnipotence, their poverty by Thy wealth, and their fear by Thine assurance.  BH10745

Praise be unto Thee, O Thou through Whose Name the heaven of utterance was raised up and adorned with the stars of wisdom and knowledge. I beseech Thee to assist me to remember Thee and to arise to serve Thee, and to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.   BH06216

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy greatest favors, and Thy mighty signs, and the waves of the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and the effulgences of the Orb of Thy pardon, to ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee. Then assist me, O my God, in that whereby Thy Cause may be exalted.  BH09559

Illumine my face with the radiance of the orb of Thy bounty, and graciously aid me in ministering at Thy holy threshold. Make my heart overflow with love for Thy creatures and grant that I may become the sign of Thy mercy, the token of Thy grace, the promoter of concord amongst Thy loved ones...  AB02866

I beseech Thee by the might of Thy Cause and the power of Thy Word to aid him who desires to carry out that which Thou hast commanded him in Thy Book and to perform that which will diffuse the fragrance of Thy good pleasure. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the All-Bountiful, the Forgiving, the Generous.   BH08859

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned unto the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the pearls treasured within the vaults of Thy Most Exalted Pen and the lights shining from the horizons of Thy most exalted Words to aid me in that which beseemeth Thy days.  BH07947

"My God, my God! Aid me to remember Thee and to praise Thee, and to serve Thy Cause. Thou art, verily, powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. Then ordain for me that which will exalt me through Thy greatness and sovereignty, and will assist me among Thy creatures. Verily, Thou art the Strong, the Triumphant, the Almighty."   BH07415

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and voicing Thy praise. I beseech Thee to assist me in that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Mighty Book, and to send down upon me from the heaven of Thy generosity a blessing from Thy presence and a grace from Thy side. Verily Thou art the Giver, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH05644

I beseech Thee by the rain-showers of the clouds of Thy mercy and the lights of the splendor of Thy countenance, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast encompassed all created things and before Whose manifestation all beings have bowed down in submission, to assist Thy loved ones to remember Thee and praise Thee and to stand firm in their love for Thee.  BH09873

O my Lord! Thou seest me clinging to the cord of Thy grace and standing before the door of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Cause, the power of Thy Will, and the ascendancy of Thy Purpose, to assist the heedless to return unto Thee and to repent before the manifestation of Thy Revelation. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Bountiful.  BH09207

O Kind Lord! O Pure God! Grant this feeble servant a shelter beneath the shade of Thy Word of Mercifulness, and give this sorrowful one a refuge in the shadow of the Tree of Joy. Bestow a portion upon this portionless one, and confer a share upon this shareless one. From the ocean of Thy grace send forth a drop, and from the river of Thy bounty vouchsafe a sprinkling, that I may find fresh life and seek boundless favor.  AB10124

O Kind Lord! The friends are self-sacrificing and the loved ones are radiant. They are captives of Thy love and seek refuge at the gate of Thy mercy. They seek Thy good-pleasure and speak of Thy mysteries and walk in Thy path. O Lord! Forgive our sins and teach us humility and supplication, that we may all engage in servitude unto Thee and seek the outpourings of Thy mercy and act according to Thy counsels and exhortations.  AB04129

O noble Lord! Protect the righteous from every affliction, and preserve the free beneath Thy sheltering care. Grant confirmation, bestow success, make them proud, make them privy to mysteries, make them free from want, and attune them to Thy grace and favors. Grant them pure hearts, make them fearless, and rend their collars with Thy love, that they might all become the gift of the human world and become hopeful through Thy ancient grace.  AB04267

My Lord and my Hope! Verily this servant of Thine, seeking Thy good-pleasure and striving to win Thy satisfaction, hath shown every effort to resolve this difficult matter and make it easy and simple. O Lord! Aid him in all affairs, exalt him among the people, and assist him with the successive and continuous hosts of Thy angels from Thy visible Kingdom. Verily Thou art the Beneficent, Thou art the Great, Thou art the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate.  AB06146

I beseech Thee, O Mystery of Being and O Thou in Whose grasp lie the reins of the seen and unseen, to aid me in that which befitteth Thy wondrous Cause and beseemeth Thy glorious Day. Then write down for me, through Thy bounty and favor, that which shall preserve me from the croaking which Thou hast foretold and from its transgression. O my Lord! I am the helpless one, the wretched one, standing before the door of Thy mercy. I beseech Thee not to deny me [that which lieth with Thee].  BH11779

O Lord! Thou seest Thy righteous servants beneath the claws of the wicked, Thou hearest the rumbling of their cannons, and Thou seest their scheming. I beseech Thee by Thy power which encompasseth all things, and by Him Whom Thou hast made the Manifestation of Thy Name, the First and the Last, the Outward and the Inward, through Whom Thou hast sealed the Manifestations of Thy Cause and the Repositories of Thy knowledge, to ordain for these weak ones that which will make them strong in Thy kingdom.  BH03681

Therefore send down, O my God, at this moment from the treasuries of Thy wondrous Lordship and the repositories of Thy eternal glory upon the households whose inhabitants glorify Thee morning and evening, and let them grieve in the path of Thy love in such wise as to tranquilize their hearts, spirits, souls and [loved ones], and [entrust] to Thee the affairs of their last and their first, for all this is within Thy grasp, O my God, not in the grasp of any besides Thee, and in Thy right hand, O my Beloved, not in the right hand of any other than Thee.  BB00211

O my God, my God! These are sincere servants, attracted and enkindled by the fire of Thy love, calling out in Thy name and speaking Thy praise, ablaze with the fire burning in the Tree of Thy mercy, receiving the rain from the clouds of Thy oneness, and supplicating to the Kingdom of Thy unity, seeking naught but Thy good pleasure and content with Thy decree. Lord! Assist them with hosts from the Concourse on High and strengthen them with mighty power and make their faces radiant with the lights of guidance that they may be signs of Thy mercy amidst humanity.  AB00578

O Lord! O Forgiving One! We are a group scattered and dispersed. We are Thine, and though we be strangers, yet are we Thy kindred. We are without head or refuge, helpless and remediless. We are wounded by every arrow, and cut by every sword. Bestow upon us a cure from the dispensary of Thy mercy, and grant us a healing balm from Thy supreme panacea, that these broken hearts may find solace, and these withered and dejected souls may find rest and gladness. May this night of sorrows be followed by a bright morn, and may this deadly poison be sweetened by wondrous honey.  AB08841

Glorified art Thou, O God of all things, Who art established upon the throne of names! I beseech Thee by Thy sweetest utterance and the manifestations of Thy Cause in the kingdom of creation, by those whose faces Thou hast honored by turning them away from all else except Thee, and whose hearts Thou hast made the treasuries of the pearls of Thy knowledge and the repositories of Thy revelation, and whom Thou hast given insight from Thyself, to send down upon this servant of Thine that which will deliver him from all that preventeth him from turning unto Thee, O Lord of heaven and Master of the nations.  BH03705

O my Lord! I am but a feeble ant, a frail gnat with broken wings, my feet weary from traversing the wilderness of separation. Behold my weeping eyes and witness my burning heart. My sighs and lamentations have caused all the birds to cry out, and the anguished sigh of my heart, like a consuming flame, hath set the world ablaze. From Thine all-glorious horizon, shower forth the effulgence of Thy lights, and from Thy most exalted Kingdom, bestow the gift of Thy mysteries. O Cloud of Grace, pour forth Thy copious rain, and O Sun of Truth, shed abroad Thy abundant radiance, that perchance these frozen hearts may be quickened and renewed, and these lifeless souls may attain boundless life.  AB07896
O my Lord and my Hope! Aid Thy servants who are afflicted in the hands of the wretched ones, who have turned toward Thy most exalted horizon in service to Thy Cause in the realm of creation.  AB12830
 
