Then gather them, O my God, beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy oneness   BH09396

Send down upon Thy servants that which will unite their hearts in Thy Cause  AB11128

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Loving, to assist the servants to attain unto unity   BH10286

O my God! O my God! Unite the hearts of Thy servants, and reveal to them Thy Great Purpose.  BH10505

O our God... to grant that the unity in the Love of God may be speedily established throughout the world  BH10134

so that we may become united and harmonized, associate with each other with the sweetness of honey and milk   AB04602

O my God! Unite the hearts of Thy loved ones and Thy servants and Thy parties and Thy chosen ones and Thy faithful ones.  BH02645

I beseech Thee...to rend asunder the veil that hath come between Thee and Thy loved ones, that they may gather in Thy presence  BH09951

Beseech God to remove that which hath come between Us and you, for He, verily, is the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Choosing.  BH06428

O Kind Lord! ...May all parties become united, seek eternal life, promote the oneness of the human world, and spread universal peace.  AB07068

I beseech Thee by Thy Beauty which hath shone forth from the horizon of glory, to gather together Thy loved ones beneath the canopies of Thy grace  BH11262

I beseech Thee by Thy Self to unite those who have been scattered by the oppression of Thine enemies and dispersed by the rejection of Thy creatures.  BH07652

My Lord, Thou knowest that I have desired naught in Thy realm save the extinction of the fire of hatred and animosity from the hearts of Thy servants   BH02226

We beseech Him to adorn this dispersion with the ornament of unity and to transform this apparent separation and remoteness into nearness and presence.   BH01772

O my God! I beseech Thee...to unite Thy loved ones and chosen ones...Make known to them that which appeareth from their unity in Thy countries and realms  BH09618

that Thou unite Thy servants even as Thou hast united light and darkness, and fire and water. Then gather them together on the shore of Thy Most Great Ocean   BH08601

O Lord! Unite all that is scattered and unify all that is divided and mend all that is torn, and gather Thy loved ones in assemblies of remembrance and praise  AB04233

The most essential and greatest of all things is the unity of the friends. They must supplicate the True One to enable all to attain this most exalted station.  BH08294

Bring them together again, O Lord, by the Power of Thy Covenant, and gather their dispersion by the Might of Thy Promise, and unite their hearts by the dominion of Thy Love!  AB02317

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and the mysteries of Thy Book to enable me to unite the hearts of Thy servants and to be united with them through Thy bounty and favor.  BH05593

O Lord! They supplicate unto the Kingdom of Thy mercy and beseech the Realm of Thy oneness in obedience to Thy command. Make their union one of harmony and unity until the Day of Meanings.  AB07158

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee to gather Thy loved ones beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy providence, then rain down upon them from the heaven of Thy mercy the showers of Thy glory and bounty.   BH00808

"Grant a favor, bestow a blessing, that all may gather under the extended shade and canopy of the Praised Station, beneath the raised banner, and be seated facing each other on thrones and couches."   AB03644

O Lord! These are a gathering whom Thou hast united through Thy grace; gather their scattered affairs through Thy bounty; strengthen their loins through Thy beneficence; fortify their backs through Thy favors.  AB00887

I beseech Thee, moreover, O my God, to unite the hearts of Thy loved ones and to join them together in harmony and fellowship in Thy Cause, that naught may appear from them that would ill beseem them in Thy days.  BH01001

O Lord! These are distinguished servants who have arisen to spread the lights of guidance in those vast regions. O Lord! Fulfill their hopes, assist their supporters, refine their meanings and reward their endeavors.  AB01657

O Lord! Illumine the eyes of hearts with the lights of the sun of Thy justice, that all things may be enlightened by its light and radiance, and that in every place the banners of Thy names and attributes may be raised.   BH05892

O my God! O my God! Aid the loved ones to love and loyalty with all peoples and nations upon the earth. Make them signs of guidance and standards of Thy mercy amidst humanity, and lamps of grace and bounty and trees of the garden of existence.  AB00901

O my God, my God! Purify the hearts of Thy servants from the mention of aught else but Thee, and illumine them with the lights of Thy knowledge. Then assist them to turn unto Thee and to behold Thy signs and to hearken unto the rustling of Thy Pen.  BH00342

O God of the world and Creator of the nations! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name to bless this union through Thy name, the All-Merciful. Then unite their hearts through Thy Name by which Thou didst unite hearts at the dawning-places of Thy Cause   BH01526

My God, my God! We beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy bestowals to aid him in Thy remembrance and praise, and to enable him to that whereby the standards of Thy guidance may be raised in Thy lands and the banners of Thy oneness among Thy servants.  BH11645

O Kind Lord! That scattered gathering belongs to You, and those companions are Your destitute ones. Grant a favor, bestow a gift, extend mercy, freely give aid and bounty so that all may become companions like the Pleiades constellation and sweeten one another's taste with sugar-laden words.  AB00894

The servant beseecheth the Lord of Eternity and the Sovereign of nations to unite us through His grace, to draw us near unto Him in all conditions, to shelter us in the precincts of His mercy, to bestow His favors upon us as He did at first, and to vouchsafe unto us the chalices of reunion and the cups of meeting.   BH00252

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Lamp which Thou hast preserved from the winds of rancor and hatred, and from the tempests of tyranny and wickedness, and from the storms of pride and vainglory, that Thou unite the hearts of Thy loved ones and assist them to serve Thy Cause through the hosts of Thy verses and Thy virtues.  BH11636

My God, my God! Unite the hearts of Thy loved ones and friends, then make their word as one. O Lord! Illumine them with the light of unity and ordain for them the station of concord. The servant beareth witness that Thou hast ordained the exaltation of Thy Word in the unity of Thy servants and their concord in Thy Cause.   BH00540

Make these separate letters into perfect words, and these brief utterances into manifest verses...Make them exalted lamps and keys to the gates of righteousness, stars of guidance and shooting stars against self and passion, outpouring truth and pulsing veins and arteries, trees in Thy garden and flowers in Thy rose-garden.  AB01445

"Then remove hatred from among them that they may unite upon the word of Thy singleness within the temple of Thy oneness, such that they dwell only in Thy remembrance, turn only to Thy face, draw near only through Thy good-pleasure, and speak only by Thy leave, that they may become as one soul and one name and one form in the earth"   BH02622

Grant us all shelter in the protection of Thy grace, and save us all in the cave of Thy preservation and guardianship and in freedom and detachment from the conditions of self and passion, that we may all become united and harmonious, entering beneath the pavilion of Thy oneness, crossing the bridge and entering the Most Glorious Paradise of essential unity.  AB08736

"O my God! Unite the hearts of Thy loved ones, make Thy friends' souls one, cause them to be united and in agreement in all matters. Gather them at the fountain of Thy mercy among Thy creatures and beneath the banner of Thy oneness among Thy creation. Assemble them under the standard of human unity and protect them in the shelter of Thy protection from every affliction"  AB01315

O my Lord! Assist those who are firm to elevate Thy Word throughout all regions, and make them manifest signs of Thy oneness dazzling to all eyes, and stars in the heaven of Thy bounty rising from the dawning-place of harmony, and hosts from the kingdom of Thy sanctity charging against the ranks of discord, and armies from the realm of Thy unity gathered beneath the banner of concord.  AB03080

I beseech Thee, O my Beloved, to remove discord from among these, then clothe them in the robe of Thy grace and the garments of Thy favors, in such wise that they may speak only of the wondrous traces of Thy divine sovereignty, and there may appear from them naught but that which will guide all created things to the court of Thy holy love, whereby the servants may ascend to the atmosphere of nearness to Thy unity  BH00915

O pure Lord! Heal the distressed hearts and unite the thoughts of the helpless ones. Be a kind Shepherd to the scattered sheep and a blessed Gatherer to the dispersed birds. Illumine the meadows of hearts with the light of unity and make souls alive and stirred by the breaths of fellowship...so that all may become unified like the waves of the sea of oneness and united like the hosts of the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.  AB10211

Verily, I set my forehead on the dust and turn my face toward the Lord of Lords and invoke my Lord with intense fervor and attraction, that He may look upon you with the glances of the eye of His providence, watch over you with the gaze of His protection, unite your hearts, dilate your breasts, harmonize your souls, rejoice you with gladness, exhilarate you with the chalices of salvation, make you steadfast in the divine Cause.   AB00590

I beseech Thee, by Thine own Self and by Him Whom Thou has appointed as the Manifestation of Thine own Being and Thy discriminating Word unto all that are in heaven and on earth, to gather together Thy servants beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy gracious providence. Help them, then, to partake of its fruits, to incline their ears to the rustling of its leaves, and to the sweetness of the voice of the Bird that chanteth upon its branches.   BH09848

O Divine Providence! Lift to Thy true lovers' lips the God-intoxicating wine of Thy mysteries, and make of them the shining dawning places of Thy guidance. Exalt the hearts of Thy friends in rapturous elation, endow their souls with joy and enable them to lift up their ears and hearken to Thy mysteries. Unite their hearts that they may raise high the standard of the oneness of humankind in this nether world and become the promoters of love and concord among the diverse kindreds of the earth.  AB10172

Let us implore and beseech that God may create love in hearts. Let us implore and beseech that the Sun of Truth may shine upon all, that we may all be immersed in the ocean of the Lord's mercy. Let us implore and beseech that all who are imperfect may become perfect. Let us implore and beseech that all children may reach maturity. May the sun of love shine upon East and West, and may all hearts be illumined by the light of the love of God, and may all souls be quickened by the spirit of divine bestowals. May eyes be enlightened, ears become hearing, hearts be drawn to the divine fragrances, spirits be gladdened by the glad-tidings of God.  ABU0235


O Lord! Make Thy loved ones waves of the sea of Thy oneness, and breezes from the gardens of Thy singleness, and stars of the heaven of fellowship and love, and pearls of the oceans of love and guidance, that they may drink from a single spring and inhale a single air and be illumined by a single ray and turn with their whole being toward the world of detachment and the center of unity.   AB01743

O Lord! Make Thy loved ones successful and cause them to be intimate companions in Thy servitude. Make their hearts luminous and their faces merciful, so that the foundation of love and kindness may be established in the human world and mankind may become enamored with and affectionate toward one another. May the East embrace the West, may Europe hasten without delay along the path of love, may the Turk consider the Tajik an intimate companion and count him as dear and kind. May all associate and consort with one another in the utmost fellowship and unity. May estrangement vanish, may mention of others as strangers cease, and may all become familiar friends and compassionate companions to each other. O Lord! Transform this dark night into radiant day, and change this hatred and enmity between nations into fellowship and love, so that the world of creation may find rest and this proud world may seek abundant portion from the divine realm.  AB05355
