
Therefore strengthen my loins with Thy power that prevails over all created things, fortify my back with Thy might that dominates all contingent beings  AB03075

Then ordain for me, O my Goal and my King, that which shall make me mighty through Thy might, articulate in Thy praise, and content with Thy good-pleasure.  BH08018

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I beseech Thee to make me so strong through Thy power that the onslaught of Thine enemies may not frighten me, nor the might of the oppressors among Thy creatures weaken me.   BH04111

Thou knowest that I have left every thought and occupation save Thy mention and praise and that I ask nothing save a strengthening power, which shall enable me to devote my life, my mind, my heart, my soul, and my spirit unto Thee, O God.  AB11758

I beseech Thee by the lights that shine forth from Thy Most Exalted Pen and by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance before the faces of the enemies, to make me strong through Thy power and steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise amidst Thy servants.   BH09966

O Lord! Strengthen me through Thy power to serve Thy Cause in such wise that the words issuing from the mouths of Thy servants may not deter me, nor the doubts of Thy creatures and the intimations of the people of Thy realm sadden me. O Lord! I am weak and have turned toward the direction of Thy strength and Thy might.  BH08567

O my God! My God! Aid this servant to exalt Thy Word, promote Thy Faith, diffuse Thy fragrances. Strengthen his back and reinforce his limbs. Make him a lamp gleaming with the light of detachment and a tree flourishing through the outpouring of Thy favors. Aid him against those who have violated the Covenant and Testament, and make him one who calls out Thy name in all directions. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB00038

O Lord! Dispel the grief of Thy loved ones and Thy chosen ones, and remove their anguish through Thy power and might, and illumine their hearts with the lights of the Day-Star of Thy oneness. Then send down upon them, from the heaven of Thy bounty, the rain of Thy mercy. Thou art indeed the Almighty, unto Whose power all created things have testified, and all things possible have witnessed to Thy strength and Thy conquest.  BH11603

O Thou kind Lord! Bestow Thy grace; grant us victory; help us to be as soaring birds; make us fruitful trees laden with blossoms and fruit; enable us to become brilliant stars; grant that we may prove to be a mighty host. Though we are drops, yet do Thou make of us the waves of the sea. Though we are but atoms, yet do Thou make of us the gems and pearls of Thy treasury. Though we are lowly, yet do Thou make us precious in Thy kingdom. Though we are powerless, yet do Thou make us the manifestations of Thy strength.  AB02286

O my God, my God! These are the servants at Thy Sacred and Radiant Threshold, and the attendants in Thy Holy Court among all peoples, who speak Thy praise and gaze toward Thy horizon, who chant Thy verses and promote Thy Faith, who guide Thy creation and protect Thy Law, who guard Thy Mighty Fortress and are soldiers of Thy Great Strongholds through Thy confirmation, O Lord of the Worlds! Lord! Lord! Strengthen them through Thy divine power and Thy merciful gift and Thy radiant angels and Thy mystic inspirations and Thy celestial outpourings.  AB09614
O Lord! Bestow wings upon this bird whose feathers are broken, and grant power and strength to this helpless servant. Raise up this fallen one from the dust of impotence and lamentation, and through the breaths of Thy Kingdom make this destitute one glorious.  AB12836
 
