
O Lord! Forgive him through Thy grace and beneficence  BH06584

Grant me the cup of pardon, forgiveness and remission  AB10326

Transform, O my God, their transgressions into forgiveness  BH08648

O my Lord! We are sinners - grant us forgiveness and pardon.  AB10415

We beseech God to forgive thee and thy father and thy mother   BH04305

O my Lord, the All-Forgiving! Forgive my sins and remove my troubles  AB09772

O God! Forgive me and those who have believed in Thee, whether male or female  BB00522

From the All-Forgiving I beseech infinite generosity and endless forgiveness   AB06754

O Lord! Give him the cup of bounty, forgive his sins, remove from him all veils  AB09777

My God, my God! ... to forgive my grievous sins and my great transgressions.  BH06373

Be Thou sufficient unto us of all things, forgive our sins and have mercy upon us.  BB00560

Forgive Thou our sins and make us intoxicated and joyful with the wine of Thy grace.  AB06421

Forgive her, O my Lord, in this base world and in the Hereafter, the abode of glory.   BB00152

O Lord! Have mercy upon us through Thy generosity, then forgive us through Thy grace.   BH05580

O God! O God who forgives sins...seeking assistance through Your pardon and forgiveness  AB05495

Thou, truly, art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.   BH10578

O Kind Lord! I am drowning in the sea of disobedience - show me the path of forgiveness.   AB02887

O Forgiver, forgive! O Bestower, bestow! Though we are sinners, we place our hopes in Thee  AB05158

Crown him with the diadem of Thy pardon and forgiveness for his firmness in the Covenant.   AB02685

And I beg of God to forgive thy sins and to illumine thy face with the light of forgiveness   AB04933

A prayer seeking forgiveness for the late Badi' at the Divine Threshold was included herein   AB04113

O Mighty Lord! We are sinners, and Thou art the Forgiver, the All-Pardoning, the All-Merciful.  AB10490

Overlook our shortcomings, and forgive our sins. Thou art the Concealer, Thou art the Forgiver.  AB07984

A prayer for forgiveness was written for the late Mirza Bahlul Qa'im-Maqami and is being sent.   AB06067

O my Lord! Forgive Thy servants who have turned with their hearts to the springs of Thy mercy...  AB06780

O God! I beseech Thee... to forgive me by "There is no God but Thee" [repeated throughout prayer]  BB00278

I hope that you will become the cause of forgiveness for your father and pardon for your mother.   AB04670

I beseech Thee, O God of Names, by the Most Great Word, to forgive me and absolve me of my offenses  BH08332

We beseech God to forgive him whose forgiveness he seeketh, verily He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH06790

Therefore forgive us and pardon us and aid us through all Thy help against the transgressing people.   BB00290

With the breeze of forgiveness and pardon make our nostrils fragrant and our minds perfumed with musk.  AB07055

O Lord! We are sinners - have mercy. O Gracious One! We are oppressors - grant pardon and forgiveness.  AB01062

O Thou bountiful Lord! Cover our faults, bestow upon us Thy freely-given grace and endless forgiveness.  AB09422

Verily, I supplicate God to forgive thy father and to submerge him in the sea of forgiveness and pardon.  AB07711

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance to clothe all created things with the robe of forgiveness   BH10587

O God! Forgive the one who seeketh prayer from Thee and let Thy mercy and care continue to rest upon him.   BB00547

Pardon us for the things we have done and wash away our sins and forgive us with Thy gracious forgiveness.  BB00593

O Lord! Immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness...and purify her from the defilement of transgressions  AB10811

We make mention of thy father and thine uncle, and We beseech God, exalted be He, to forgive them and thee   BH05129

I beseech Thee...that Thou forgive me and those who have acknowledged Thy manifestation and Thy sovereignty  BH02259

and forgive thy father, mother, brother and grandfather their sins. Verily, He is the Pardoner, the Forgiver  AB09624

O King, the All-Merciful! Bestow Thy grace upon me and forgive me, O Thou Evidence, O Thou Compassionate One!  BB00565

O All-Bountiful God! Cover over our faults and bestow upon us Thy freely-given grace and endless forgiveness.  AB09422

and forgive thy father, mother, brother and grandfather their sins. Verily, He is the Pardoner, the Forgiver.  AB09624

O Lord! Forgive him the sins that proceeded from him, pardon his misdeeds and transform them into good deeds.  AB08398

I beseech Thee by the wonders of Thy favor to forgive me and remit my sins which have come between me and Thee  BH03932

I beseech Thee by the mysteries that lay hidden in Thy knowledge to forgive me through Thy generosity and bounty  BH04784

I beseech Thee to forgive me and my father and my uncle, and to remit our sins through Thy grace and generosity   BH04122

My God, my God! ... Then forgive me and my father and my mother and whosoever hath clung to the cord of Thy gift.  BH04318

Immediately upon the Ascension of thy respected father, a detailed prayer seeking forgiveness was written and sent  AB12417

Then forgive me, O my God, for what I have done in Thy days, and by Thy grace and bounty absolve me of my misdeeds.  BH10905

O my God! ... forgive me for what I have wrought in Thy days, and by Thy grace and generosity blot out my misdeeds.   BH11145

You see my position on the mountain, so forgive me and bestow your grace upon me, for you are the Best of forgivers   BB00419

O Lord! Thou seest the transgressor turning toward the waves of the ocean of Thy generosity, seeking Thy forgiveness   BH03514

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and Goal of the nations, to forgive my grievous sins and mighty transgressions.   BH03384

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which is with Thee. Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  BH10738

Therefore one should not mourn or be captive to pain and grief, but rather seek forgiveness and beseech help and grace.  AB07228

O Lord! ...Forgive their sins, grant them forgetfulness, bestow joy, show them kindness, and vouchsafe them forgiveness.  AB09905

O God, Forgiver of sins, Remover of sorrows, Concealer of faults! [...] make him assured of Your pardon and forgiveness   AB04618

I beseech Thee to assist me in Thy remembrance and praise, and to ordain for me that which shall profit me in Thy worlds   BH06605

O my Lord! Forgive me and those who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the All-Generous.   BH01592

I seek forgiveness of God, my Lord, and turn unto Him in repentance. Verily He hath ever been forgiving unto the believers.  BB00026

Supplications were offered at the Divine Threshold seeking forgiveness for your honored mother, upon her be the Glory of God  AB12801

This sinful servant has taken refuge at the threshold of Thy oneness...Graciously bestow that which befitteth Thy generosity  AB10873

And when he laid his head upon that Threshold, he offered supplications and lamentations, and beseeched forgiveness for all.  AB06493

I beseech Thee...to forgive this servant who hath clung to the cord of Thy loving care and held fast to the hem of Thy bounty  BH10845

O my God, my Lord, my Beloved, my Goal! I have come unto Thee and I beseech of Thee that which is the cause of Thy forgiveness.  BH10992

Then forgive my father and me, through Thy bounty and generosity which have encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH05641

Then forgive me and those with me, through Thy grace and bounty. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Bountiful.   BH04925

Perfect, O God, His light and forgive us, and send down upon us the measures of Thy mercy, for Thou hast power over all things.   BB00390

Forgive us through their right, relieve us through their grace, cause us to die in obedience to them after having recognized them  BB00320

My God, my God! You are He Who...that You protect him from all that contradicts Your good pleasure and opposes Your satisfaction.  AB03898

I beseech Thee to expiate my grievous transgressions and mighty sins, and purify me from that which is not befitting for Thy days   BH02316

I beseech at the Threshold of the Divine Oneness that forgiveness be granted so that eternal rest and endless joy may be ordained.   AB06293

Wash away, then, my sins, O my God, by Thy grace and bounty, and reckon me among such as are not overtaken by fear nor put to grief.  BH06877

Then forgive him through Thy grace and generosity. Verily Thou art the Forgiver of sins and the Merciful unto both kings and servants  BH08854

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant... I beseech Thee not to disappoint him, by Thy grace and Thy generosity   BH07827

O my God, my Lord, and my Hope! This is Your servant who has supplicated at the gate of Your forgiveness...that You forgive his sins   AB05430

At the threshold of the Blessed Beauty, forgiveness was sought for your honored wife, that He may immerse her in the ocean of pardon.  AB06297

Forgive us, and our fathers, and our mothers, and fulfil whatsoever we have desired from the ocean of Thy grace and Divine generosity.   BH02806

I beseech You...by the river of Your mercy and the ocean of Your favor, to forgive me and accept what has appeared from me in Your days.  BH02227

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to blot out my misdeeds and ordain for me and Thy handmaiden the good of this world and the next.   BH04917

O my God, my God! ... Verily Thou art the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate, and verily Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful   AB05500

My God, my God! The ocean of Thy mercy has surged...Verily, Thou art the Kind, the Forgiving, the Pardoning, the Generous, the Bestower.   AB05501

O my God! I am he who hath taken Thee as his Guardian by Thy leave and Thy will, and verily Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.  BH08364

O thou forgiving Lord: Forgive my kind mother's sins. Pardon her shortcomings, cast a glance of Providence and usher her unto Thy Kingdom.  AB06891

Open the gate of forgiveness and treat him with pardon and benevolence. Through the effulgence of Thy favors, dispel the darkness of sins   AB05112

I beseech Thee...that Thou forgive Thy loved ones and purify them from the defilement of the world and its suspicions and its idle fancies   BH10144

O my Lord, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful...make her a sign of Thy forgiveness. Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  AB10230

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Hope of the worlds, to forgive me and have mercy upon me. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  BH08275

Therefore forgive, O God, whoever has entered Thy gate and visited Thy Word and followed Thy verses, for Thou art the Generous, the Bestower.   BB00587

O God! I ask Thee...to forgive me my debts through Thy Grace and Bounty, and to overlook and pardon my trespasses by Thy Benevolence and Mercy.  AB10301

I beseech God to grant forgiveness to Mirza Abdul-Samad and to immerse that leaf's father, mother, brothers and sisters in the ocean of favors   AB02041

I implore Thee...to rid me entirely of all vain imaginings, and to incline me in the direction of Thy grace, O Thou Who art the Lord of all men!  BH04744

O Lord! Light for them the lamp of life, ordain for them the best of ends...Verily, Thou art the Forgiving, the Loving, the Generous, the Bestower  AB12327

My God, my God! Aid this servant in that which Thou lovest and approvest, forgive his father and pardon him, immerse him in the seas of Thy mercy   AB03750

I beseech Thee by Thyself not to turn away Thy servants from the Dayspring of Thy grace, nor to withhold them from the Kawthar of Life in Thy days.   BH11070

and forgive the handmaiden who is related to him. Immerse her in the oceans of Thy pardon and mercy, and make her acceptable at Thy sacred Threshold  AB08495

O Lord! Thy generosity hath made them bold, and Thy bounty hath caused Thy servants to persist. Deprive them not; both forgive and bestow Thy bounty.  BH08596

For the near handmaid of God Mardiyyih and the suppliant handmaid of God Radiyyih, forgiveness and pardon were sought from the Threshold of Oneness.   AB11664

O Lord! We are sinners - forgive us. We are transgressors - pardon us. Shelter us in Thy protection. Perfect our deficiencies through Thy forgiveness.   AB05109

O Lord! Forgive Thy servant Hussein and perfume his nostrils with the fragrance of Thy pardon. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Exalted.  AB04094

I beseech Thee to forgive my trespasses and my sins. Verily Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful ones and the Most Generous of the generous ones.   BH05433

My God, my God! I am Your sinful, erring and disobedient servant... Forgive my sins, conceal my faults...forgive me and pardon my negligence in Your path  AB06554

We beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the cities and souls to blot out our evil deeds and to pass over what our hands have wrought.   BH01169

O Lord! Forgive the transgressions of these souls and conceal the sins of these lowly ones...Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Concealer of faults.  AB10874

For the relatives and dependents of that honored one - the wife and mother and father, even ancestors and maternal ancestors - forgiveness was beseeched.   AB04330

At the threshold of the One, I express utter lowliness and need on behalf of you and your relations and associates, and I beseech forgiveness and pardon.   AB11781

O God! O Forgiver of sins and Bestower of gifts! Thou forgivest whomsoever Thou willest and pardonest whomsoever Thou willest. In Thy hand is all authority.  AB12559

"Thou seest me turning my face toward the horizon of Thy bounty, with the gaze of one who beseecheth the ocean of Thy forgiveness and the sun of Thy pardon."  BH08968

O Forgiver! Grant his father and mother a place in Your shelter and bestow refuge in Your court. Forgive their sins and teach them gratitude for Your favors.  AB02899

O Lord of pardon and forgiveness, Concealer of faults and Swift to bestow favors!...Verily, Thou art kind to Thy servants and generous to every penitent soul.   AB07099

Pour a drop of that divine wine to his desire that he might become joyous and diffuse the fragrance of musk. Immerse him in the ocean of pardon and forgiveness  AB04516

O my God, my God! Disappoint not my hopes, and look not upon my deeds and my sorry state, my utter abasement, my severe deprivation, and my many transgressions  AB03075

My Lord! My Lord! Hold me not to account for my transgression, blot out my sins, remove my distress, comfort me in my loneliness, be my companion in my exile.   AB00346

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having remembered me in Thy prison. I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Forgiving, that Thou forgive me and my family   BH07972

"O my God, my God! Deal with this Thy handmaiden through Thine infinite bounty, and deal not with her through Thy justice...Forgive her, then, through Thy grace"  AB12652

I beseech Thee to forgive those who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and to adorn their fathers and mothers with the ornament of Thy pardon and beneficence   BH02411

Remit her sins, forgive her by Thy grace, and reward her in the precincts of Thy most great mercy. Thou art the Bountiful. Thou art the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB05993

O God! Grant her Thy forgiveness and pardon, and in the world of mysteries immerse her in the ocean of lights. Verily, Thou art the All-Forgiving, the Compassionate.  AB09340

My Lord! Strip from her the garment of error and clothe her with the raiment of bounty and bestowal... Therefore immerse her in the seas of Thy pardon and forgiveness   AB04950

I supplicated and implored at the Threshold of the Beauty of Abha, beseeching pardon, forgiveness and bounty of the Merciful for thee, thy friends and even thine enemies.  AB08892

O Lord! Forgive them both and pardon them, and make them two brilliant stars in the horizon of Thy mercy, and two radiant lamps in the glass of Thy forgiveness and pardon.  AB05706

Through the bounty of the Lord of creation, I hope that He will forgive the sins of all, grant comfort to the souls, adorn them with His love, and deliver them from trials.  AB04786

O Lord! Thou seest one of Thy leaves who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs. I beseech Thee to forgive her and assist her in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.  BH07680

I beseech You with all shame and modesty, despite the errors that have proceeded from me, to intercede before You that You may pardon these souls and forgive their misdeeds   AB05994

to enfold this servant in the beauty of Thy pardon, to strengthen him with the hosts of Thy forgiveness, to treat him according to Thy grace and not according to Thy justice   AB07079

O Lord! Aid Thy servant 'Abdu'l-Husayn through Thy pardon and grace at every moment and time, purify him from sins, remove from him all difficulties, and conceal his faults.   AB04560

I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers to forgive him and those who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and to accept from him what he hath wrought in Thy path   BH06573

O God! Do not look upon our desert. Have mercy upon us! Be compassionate to us! Grant us Thy Favor and guide us to the right Path. Verily Thou art the Powerful and the Mighty.  ABU2087

I, too, take refuge at the divine Threshold and beseech forgiveness and pardon for thy father, and for thy helpless mother I implore from the All-Merciful Lord endless bounties  AB10025

My Lord! Forgive the root of this servant and the branch of this offshoot, and cause him to enter the garden of Thy good-pleasure and the meadows of Thy pardon and forgiveness.  AB03872

I beseech Thee...to forgive the one who hath ascended unto Thee and descended upon Thee, and soared in the atmosphere of Thy nearness, and risen unto the Lote-Tree of Thy might.  BH02878

Bestow, then, Thy forgiveness upon us, upon our forefathers, and upon all such as have believed in Thee and in Thy mighty signs in this most great, this most glorious Revelation.  BH10581

A prayer seeking forgiveness for the esteemed person Mu'ayyad, who has ascended to the hidden world, has been revealed from the Pen of the Covenant - convey it to his relatives.   AB01181

I furthermore beseech Thee by the power of Thy Word and the sovereignty of Thy Will and the all-encompassing nature of Thy Purpose to forgive me through Thy bounty and generosity   BH08366

O my God, my God! I supplicate to the Kingdom of Thy mercy and humble myself before the might of Thy oneness. I am immersed in the ocean of prayer and say: O Lord of clear signs!   AB02028

forgiveness was beseeched for him who ascended unto God, Aqa Mirza ?abib, that he may become the recipient of pardon, favors and the object of the benevolence of the merciful Lord   AB04313

Forgive our shortcomings and let our disobedience end in pardon. Bestow endless favors and grant fitting forgiveness of sins. You are the Forgiver, the Pardoner, and the Kind One.   AB01080

Through the bounty and gift of the Forgiving Lord, I hope that the honored mother may be immersed in the sea of forgiveness and that the honored wife may find stability and order.   AB12076

I confess that no deed hath appeared from me worthy of mention in Thy days. I beseech Thee to send upon my transgressions the winds of Thy forgiveness and the breezes of Thy pardon.  BH09975

Prayer: O peerless Lord! Grant Sarah a journey through the Kingdom of forgiveness and [O Lord] bring her to Elijah's embrace, that both may be immersed in the ocean of endless favors.  AB04721

O Lord, grant me the cup of bounty and let me taste the sweetness of Thy forgiveness in the abyss of error, and save me from estrangement and fulfill for me the measure of faithfulness  AB06006

O Lord! Give him to drink from a cup whose mixture is of camphor, let him drink from the pure Kawthar, and immerse him in the seas of light. Verily You are the Pardoning, the Forgiving  AB03310

"I beseech You...that You write down for me what I have missed in Your days, and rend asunder the veils that have come between me and You. Verily, You are the Forgiving, the Merciful."   BH05302

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom of Creation, by the ocean of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy grace, to forgive me and my parents and those who have believed in Thee and Thy signs.   BH00716

Nevertheless, supplications and entreaties were made at the threshold of divine grace and favors, that pardon and forgiveness might encompass all and endless bounties might surround all.  AB09248

I implore forgiveness for Rustam, son of Faridun, from the bounty of the Compassionate Lord, that he may become the recipient of pardon and forgiveness and draw near to the Court of God.  AB08566

I beseech God to grant you confirmation from the Strong, the Mighty, and to immerse your father in the seas of pardon and forgiveness and admit him into the garden of spirit and delight.  AB07032

Therefore, set aside grief and sorrow, and occupy thyself with seeking forgiveness and pardon from the Forgiving Lord, that thou mayest gladden and rejoice the spirit of that noble one.   AB03203

O Merciful and Forgiving Lord! These two noble servants and two cherished handmaidens, like birds of the meadow, have spread their wings and sought the nest of Thy pardon and forgiveness   AB07067

I beseech Thee by the greatness of Thy majesty, the abundance of Thy bestowals, the vastness of Thy mercy, and the appearance of Thy gift, to forgive this servant who has come before Thee   AB07173

O Lord! He is thirsty and parched - give him to drink from the spring of Thy bounty and benevolence...And forgive all who are related to him through Thy pardon, forbearance and generosity.  AB06004

Protect him through Thy generosity, for he is a penitent servant. Forgive, O God, those who follow Thy verses and strive in Thy path, and who fear none except Thy judgment and Thy justice.   BB00138

The hand of supplication and entreaty was raised to the court of the Lord of Majesty, and forgiveness and pardon were beseeched from the threshold of the One for that steadfast and firm one   AB05612

O Lord, forgive my sins and conceal my faults, and grant me a goodly exit, and purify me from the defilement of my errors, and cause me to enter into the ocean of Your pardon and forgiveness   AB07424

I beseech You by the right of Muhammad and his family to bless Muhammad and his family as befits You, and to forgive us through Your grace and deliver us from every care through Your kindness   BB00538

I beseech Thee, O God... that Thou forgive me and my parents and whomsoever Thou lovest in this hour upon that earth, through Thy grace and bounty and the sovereignty of Thy Self-Subsistence.   BB00462

Then forgive, O my God, his grievous offenses and his grave transgressions. Then wash him, O my Beloved, in the seas of Thy bounty and forgiveness and in the deep waters of Thy grace and favor   BH03860

O Lord! Grant forgiveness to the kind mother and nurture her in the embrace of pardon and forgiveness. Bestow the worthy downpour of the rain of mercy and permit the shining of the sun of bounty.  AB05763

My God, my God! I commune with Thee with the tongue of supplication... I seek Thy forgiveness, O my God, for my sins and transgressions which have brought me shame and weighed heavily upon me...   AB02862

And regarding what thou didst write about Darvish Baqir who hath ascended unto God, and thy request for forgiveness -- it was mentioned, and a wondrous and exalted bounty was directed towards him.  BH00396

O my Lord! Have mercy upon me through Thy bounty, then prescribe for me the reward of those who have turned unto Thee, for I find for myself no helper other than Thee and no protector besides Thee.   BH04608

O gracious Lord! Adorn Thy handmaiden Bibi Zinat with the light of forgiveness and immerse her in the ocean of pardon. Cleanse her from every impurity...manifest the beauty of forgiveness and pardon.  AB12336

I am a sinner. Thou art the Forgiving One. I am desperate of my deeds, but hopeful in Thy pardon. Being submerged in the ocean of errors, I seek Thy favor. I am a sinner yearning for Divine intimacy.  AB08464

O Forgiver! Pardon sin and cover the faults of the transgressors. We are all sinners and wrongdoers, yet we shun those of base forgiveness. Your pardon is all-encompassing and Your grace is perfect.   AB06047

O God, my God! I have turned in repentance unto Thee, and verily Thou art the Pardoner, the Compassionate. O God, my God! I have returned to Thee, and verily Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Gracious.  BH07775

Therefore, O my God and my Beloved, have mercy upon those who have turned unto Thee and hastened to the court of Thy Cause and sought refuge in the shelter of Thy mercy and the stronghold of Thy grace   BH07161

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the greatest earthquake and the most mighty terror appeared, to unveil for me that which is hidden from me... [continues through lengthy prayer section]  BH01597

O Lord! Grant these two servants of Thy threshold, Baqir and Ishaq, shelter in Thy protection, immerse them in the ocean of forgiveness... Look not upon sin, grant shelter and refuge in Thy protection   AB12064

O Lord! Send down from the heaven of Thy mercy that which will set right my affairs, then enable me to make good what hath escaped me during the dawning of the lights of the Day-Star of Thy Revelation.   BH02669

O God! O You Who illumine existence with praiseworthy light...I beseech You by Your mercy which has preceded all created things to embrace Your servant who has returned to You with Your infinite favors.  AB12092

O Lord! Make Khusraw Rustam a companion of forgiveness, grant Makhmal Bahram repose in Thy shelter, and make Sarv Salamat a manifestation of pardon. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, and the Kind One.  AB09668

I beseech God to forgive you and pardon us and you, to clothe you in the robes of bounty, to cause you to enter the Garden of Meeting, and grant you the vision of the Beauty in the mornings and evenings.  AB05008

O Lord, forgive Your hopeful servant of yesterday and bestow upon her triumph, success, pardon and forgiveness. Immerse her in the ocean of Your bounty and cleanse and sanctify her from the filth of sin.   AB05588

O Lord! The mountain of rebellion hath turned toward the ocean of Thy forgiveness. I beseech Thee by Thy mercy which hath preceded all created things to blot out his misdeeds through Thy bounty and grace.   BH05069

I beseech Thee to forgive me and those who desired their remembrance before Thy throne. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is no God but Thee, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  BH03978

O Thou Almighty! O Thou Forgiving Lord! Endear Thou this believing, assured maidservant of God in Thy Kingdom and submerge her in the ocean of Thy Grace and illumine her countenance in Thy Kingdom, El Abha.  AB07981

O Thou kind Lord! My shortcomings are many and my righteous deeds are none. I am a sinner, an evil-doer...O my God! Grant Thy grace, bestow Thy favor, show Thy generosity, and deal with me through Thy mercy.  AB10666

O Lord! Though I am a sinner, I place my hopes in Thy forgiveness. I am destitute and poor; Thou art the Generous, the Succourer. I am afflicted and lowly; Thou art the Healer of every sick and captive soul.  AB10855

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst rend asunder the veils and didst come with Thy sovereignty at the final return, that Thou show mercy unto Thy servants who have been oppressed in the earth   BH07123

Seize them through Thy wrath, Thy might and Thy power, or aid them to return unto Thee and to repent before the gate of Thy pardon and Thy bounty. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Possessor of great bounty.   BH02402

My God! This, Thy delicate servant, hath clung to the hem of the robe of Thy lordship and held fast to the fringe of the mantle of Thy divine protection. He seeketh Thy forgiveness for sins and transgressions  AB10328

O Lord! O Creator! We are sinners and You are the Forgiver, we are guilty and You are the Magnanimous One. Though our transgressions are like a boundless ocean, Your pardon and forgiveness are greater still.   AB05587

O Lord! O Forgiver! Bring Thy dear maidservant Mrs. Emily Noblack from the earthly world into the pure realm. Forgive sins, pardon faults, look not upon shortcomings, but deal according to Thy grace and bounty  AB02529

O my God! I testify that I denied You when You called me to faith, and rejected Your proof when You commanded me to acknowledge it. I beseech You by Your mercy to forgive me and join me with Your near servants.   BH05981

As to thy request for forgiveness for thy departed father and others, it hath been granted. God hath forgiven them as a mercy and favor from His presence. He is verily the Forgiver, the Bountiful, the Generous.   BH01253

O my God! I implore Thy forgiveness, for my very existence is a sin with which no other sin can compare. How can I not seek Thy forgiveness when Thou art the Possessor of boundless mercy and eternal forgiveness?  BB00048

O Lord! Thou hearest the call of Thy loved ones and beholdest their humility before the revelations of Thy grandeur. I beseech Thee not to change their glory into abasement, nor their exaltation into debasement.   BH00883

O Lord! I cover My face in the dust of submission to Thy celestial Glory, beseeching Thee to forgive and pardon her father and to shelter him beneath the canopy of Thine abounding grace within Thy garden of repose.  AB12787

O Lord! Cover the sins, grant forgiveness, be the Concealer, be the Pardoner, and make her pure and sanctified from every sin. Thou art the Forgiver of sins and the Resplendent One from the dawning-place of pardon.  AB10665

Supplications were offered to the Abha Kingdom, and forgiveness and pardon were beseeched for Mulla Muhammad Rafi', and likewise for the handmaid of God Zakiyyih, entreaty for divine forgiveness and grace was made.  AB07683

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the movement of Thy Pen of destiny, and by the Tablet that beareth the mysteries of Thy knowledge and wisdom, and by the Light that shineth from the horizon of Thy bounty, to forgive me   BH06905

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name to forgive me and my father and my mother. Then I beseech Thee by the Trust which Thou hast concealed in this station to ordain for me the good of the hereafter and of this world.  BH02678

O Lord! I call upon Thee in this luminous spot and commune with Thee in this radiant dome and seek Thy pardon in this supreme horizon. Answer my prayer and respond to my call and reach me through Thy grace and bounty.  AB05505

I beseech Thee, therefore, by Thyself and by Them, to send down, from the right hand of the throne of Thy grace, upon all that dwell on earth, that which shall wash them from the stain of their trespasses against Thee   BH02006

'Abdu'l-Baha, with the utmost supplication and entreaty, sought pardon and forgiveness for him and besought grace and beneficence. It is certain that this prayer was answered at the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB12350

My God, my God! Prevent not Thy servants from the ocean of Thy bounty. If Thou forgivest them, this is of the wonders of Thy grace and bestowal; and if Thou chastiseth them, verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH02953

God hath forgiven thy father and thy mother and thy kindred, and hath arrayed them in the robes of His loving-kindness as a bounty from His presence. Rejoice thou in this and say: Praise be unto Thee, O God of all worlds!  BH02862

O Pure One! Make Kaykhusraw the sovereign of the realm of forgiveness and ordain him to be the king of the kingdom of bounty. Forgive his sins and deliver him from deprivation. Make him worthy of Thy favor and generosity.  AB08444

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Take us not to task for what our hands have wrought, then forgive our sins, pardon us and have mercy upon us. Thou art verily the Lord of Bounty and Might, the Lord of Grace and Kingdom.   BH01410

O Lord! Make Khusraw Rustam intimate with Thy forgiveness, grant Makhmal Bahram repose beneath Thy protection, and make Sarv Salamat a manifestation of Thy forgiveness. Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, and the Kind One.  AB09668

O my God, my God! Verily, Thy servant 'Ali-Muhammad standeth in need of pardon and forgiveness and assistance. I press my brow to the dust of Thy sacred Threshold and beseech forgiveness for him, O my Lord, the All-Merciful.  AB09770

O Kind Lord! Deliver Kheyrbam from the darkness of sins and grant eternal life in the realm of lights. Though we are immersed in transgression, we gaze toward the Kingdom of forgiveness. Carry out whatever befits Your mercy.  AB06674

Then I beseech You, O Forgiving One, to send down the layers of light from pardon and forgiveness upon the grave of the assured leaf who has returned to You... and to immerse his brother in the seas of mercy and forgiveness   AB04241

O Lord Who covers faults and bestows gifts, look not at transgressions - grant forgiveness. See not shortcomings, regard not lassitude. Thou art the All-Forgiving Lord. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Mighty, the Bestower.   AB04942

O Lord! Thou art forgiving and kind, and the Sovereign of the realm of pardon and forgiveness. These souls and this sinful servant beseech from the threshold of Thy grace and bounty pardon and forgiveness for these dear souls.  AB10872

"I ask Thee, O Forgiver of the world and Helper of the nations, Who hath appeared through the Most Great Name, to forgive me and those who have turned to Thy most exalted horizon and held fast to the cord of Thy loving-kindness"  BH05602

Therefore, O my God, forgive me and my parents and those who have followed me in Thy decree. Send down upon us Thy breathings, honor us with Thy bounties, and preserve us from all evil through the sovereignty of Thine eternity.   BB00360

I adjure Thee by Thy Name, the Concealer, to conceal whatsoever hath been wrought contrary to Thy good-pleasure, and by Thy Name, the All-Forgiving, to forgive us and to adorn Thy male and female servants with the robe of pardon.   BH05327

Supplications and entreaties were made at the threshold of the Glorious Lord that He might immerse those two kind friends in the fountain of His Holiness Job and cleanse them from every fault and sin, rendering them pure and holy.  AB07402

"Therefore the seeking of forgiveness by the loved ones and beseeching pardon and forgiveness from the Court of Unity on behalf of the deceased is legitimate and accepted and praiseworthy, and causes abundant pardon and progress."  AB01031

My God, my God! I testify that Thy mercy hath preceded all created things and Thy grace hath encompassed all possibilities...I beseech Thee to assist me in all conditions to turn to Thee and to repent at the door of Thy generosity   BH04194

This is Your servant who was set ablaze with the fire of Your love and was attracted by Your holy fragrances and responded to Your call and served at the threshold of Your mercy...seeking forgiveness for sins, relying upon Your pardon  AB05026

Lo, O my God! I have raised the hands of hope toward the heaven of Thy mercy and forgiveness. I beseech Thee by the hands that were severed in Thy path that Thou wilt not send them back empty of what they seek from Thy grace and bounty.   BH00524

O Lord! Relieve my anguish, conceal my faults, transform my difficulty, make easy my affairs, open unto me the doors of blessings, expand my breast, strengthen my back, provide me a way out from my trials, deliver me from my afflictions   AB01781

O Lord! These pure souls have hastened toward Thee, quaffed from Thy plenteous stream, and desired to gaze upon Thy countenance. Immerse these thirsting ones in the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and rejoice and gladden them with Thy presence.  AB09026

O Lord! Thou art the Pardoner, the Forgiver, and the All-Merciful. Thou dost not look upon faults, Thou art the Nurturer of bounty, Thou dost cover sins, grant refuge, and provide dwelling and shelter in the precincts of Thy great mercy.   AB07306

For Paridukht I have offered humble supplications at the threshold of God and sought forgiveness and pardon. And for Bahman-rad Rustam I opened my tongue in intercession and beseeched grace and forgiveness from the Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB02056

Then forgive, O my God, him who was named Muhammad-'Ali, who attained unto Thy recognition and acknowledged what Thou didst command him in Thy Tablets, and ordain for him from the wonders of Thy favors what Thou lovest and art pleased with   BH04459

O Lord! Make his morning prosperous, illumine his lamp, grant him success and triumph in the next world, the highest Paradise, and the Garden of Refuge. Verily You are the Forgiving, You are the Kind, You are the Mighty, the Compassionate.   AB02488

O my God and my Master! I beseech You by this martyr who was martyred in Your path, and by this blood which was shed in Your love, that You forgive me and my parents and my relatives from among those who have believed in You and Your verses.  BH02977

My God, my God! Aid the treacherous to be trustworthy, the slanderers to be truthful, and the polytheists to return to the Tree of Thy oneness and the gate of Thy forgiveness and bounty. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the All-Powerful.   BH02132

This is an insignificant handmaiden that hath sought refuge at the Door of Thy Oneness and is inclined to the Threshold of Thy Holiness. She seeketh mercy and the remission of her sins...Thou art the Ever-Forgiving and the Concealer of sins.  AB10911

and (I beg of God) to make all mankind the children of His mercy! This is the utmost mercy of Abdul-Baha for which he is endeavoring night and day and is summoning all to this fountain which is flowing with the pure water of the gift of God.   AB05891

With complete humility and supplication, prayers were offered for him at the Sacred Threshold. Again, in consideration of your request, God willing, prostrate at the Sacred Threshold, supplication will be made seeking pardon and forgiveness.   AB02522

And as for thy request for forgiveness for those souls thou didst mention - all have been adorned with the ornament of forgiveness and have attained unto the bounties of God. In this Night of Ridvan, the ocean of forgiveness hath embraced all.  BH04288

Then forgive me, O my God, and my father and mother, and those who are related to me. Then send down upon me of every good thing Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen servants. Then assign me a seat of truth in the vicinity of Thy greatest mercy.   BH01328

Our errors are many, but Your ocean of mercy is boundless. Our weakness is great, but Your confirmation and success are manifest. Therefore, grant confirmation and bestow success, and make us successful in that which is worthy of Your threshold.  AB07056

"'Abdu'l-Baha, in utmost humility and self-effacement, implores and supplicates at the Most Exalted Threshold that the illumined leaf, the content handmaiden of God, may become in the infinite Kingdom the manifestation of pardon and forgiveness"   AB11653

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the world and unite the nations, and by the influences of Thy Most Exalted Pen and the manifestations of Thy power in the kingdom of creation, to forgive me and my parents   BH06599

In any case, we seek forgiveness through goodly character and praiseworthy deeds - how much more so without them! Never have the deeds of a servant been worthy of the court of the Lord, unless His grace should take hold and His favor should assist.   BH01377

Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me in Thy prison while Thou wert in the hands of the oppressors among Thy servants. I beseech Thee to forgive me and to ordain for me from the wonders of Thy bounty that which will draw me nigh unto Thee.  BH08139

O GOD the Forgiver! O Heavenly Educator! This assembly is adorned with the mention of thy holy Name. Thy children turn their face towards thy Kingdom, hearts are made happy and souls are comforted. Merciful God! cause us to repent of our shortcomings!  ABU0445

O Thou Kind One! Cover Thou and conceal our faults. From Thee is bounty, from us transgression. From Thee faithfulness, from us sin. From Thee shelter, from us illness. From Thee healing. Cover and forgive, be faithful, give shelter, and bestow healing.  AB10568

Do Thou graciously forgive me for the things that I have wrought in Thy holy presence, and look not upon me with the glance of justice, but rather deliver me through Thy grace, treat me with Thy mercy and deal with me according to Thy bountiful favours.   BB00372

O divine Providence! Do not seize us in our sins, but give us refuge. Do not look upon our evil ways, but grant forgiveness. Consider not our just deserts, but open wide Thy door of grace. Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful! Thou art the Seer, the Knower!   AB02467

O Lord! Honor her resting place, grant her ultimate desire, shelter her in the vicinity of Thy mercy, make easy for her Thy gift, admit her to the garden of Thy grace, bring her to the stream of Thy divinity, and make her a sign of forgiveness and pardon.   AB04617

O God, You whose mercy encompasses all things, whose bounty is perfected for all beings, and whose forgiveness aids the peoples of earth and heaven...O Lord! Make their morning blessed and illumine their lamp. Make their spirits attached to Your holy verses.  AB12165

I moreover beseech Thee, O God of Names, by the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and the murmuring of Thy Most Exalted Pen, to forgive me and my parents, through Thy mercy which hath preceded all created things and Thy grace which hath encompassed all existence.  BH05494

I beseech Thee by the branches of the Tree of Thy singleness and Thy chosen ones who have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love and have spent their substance and their spirits in Thy path, to forgive me and those who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs.   BH01419

So he supplicated and implored Thee and came before Thee and beseeched Thee, submissive, humble, lowly, entreating, seeking forgiveness for sins, yearning to enter the world of the unseen, moved by the breezes of forgiveness, absolved from sin and transgression.  AB04230

O my Lord! Thou seest the sinner who seeketh the ocean of Thy forgiveness and pardon. I beseech Thee by Thy generosity which hath encompassed the world to forgive my misdeeds and transgressions, and to ordain for me that which will keep me steadfast in Thy Cause   BH01083

Forgiveness and pardon were sought from the Court of Unity for those souls who have ascended to the seat of truth, that they may be immersed in lights in the realm of mysteries and find rest under the protection of forgiveness through the favors of the Lord God.   AB00630

Therefore, O my God, forgive their sins and conceal their faults and save their souls and rescue their spirits and guide them to Thy manifest path and extended shade, and pardon and forgive them - they are weak captives. Verily, Thou art the Pardoner, the Forgiving.  AB12172

This servant beseeches his Lord to spread another carpet and to purify the hearts of His servants with the waters of Kawthar and illumine them with the lights of His Most Great Countenance. Verily, He is the Hearing, the Answering, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH00281

"O my God! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word to ordain for me the word of forgiveness, for I intended in my soul what Thou didst not desire and what Thou forbade in Thy Book. I beseech Thee to remit my evil deeds and to immerse me in the ocean of Thy forgiveness."  BH02498

My God! I beseech of Thee mercy and forgiveness for people who abandoned vain imaginings, purified themselves from disobedience, disassociated from the rebellious ones, and kept themselves free from all that is unworthy in the days of Thy manifestation among mankind.   AB03311

O Thou Almighty! I am a sinner, but Thou art the Forgiver! I am full of shortcomings, but Thou art the Compassionate! I am in darkness of error, but Thou art the Light of Pardon! Therefore, O Thou Benevolent God, forgive my sins, grant Thy Bestowals, overlook my faults  AB06676

O Divine Providence! O Thou Compassionate! Make Thou hopeful the servant that is covered with shame and cause him to perform good acts. Vouchsafe unto him Thy bountiful favours. Do not look at my trespasses and disregard my misdeeds. Forgive my shortcomings and my sins.  AB05409

O Lord! Forgive and bestow Thy favors upon Ahmad, the father of this servant of Thy threshold. Make him an intimate companion in the privacy of Thy forgiveness. Give him to drink from the heart-delighting stream of Thy pardon and immerse him in the ocean of Thy forgiveness.  AB08572

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Beauty to give to drink from the wine of Thy reunion to all who have forsaken Thee, and to cause all who have heard Thee to hearken to the verses of Thy Beauty. Disappoint not those who hope in Thee, and drive not away those who long for Thee   BH03861

O Lord! Forgive both me and him our sins, deliver him from afflictions, dispel his sorrows, lead him to the springs of bounty, give him to drink from the cup of fidelity, and make him a sign of grace and beneficence in the midst of Paradise and throughout the gardens of Heaven.  AB03038

My God, my God! Look not upon my self and my transgressions, but rather upon the Sun of Thy bounty and the Heaven of Thy generosity. I have come unto Thee detached from all else beside Thee. Do with me as beseemeth Thee. We testify that Thou art the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH07350

O Lord! Thou hast chosen from among Thy righteous servants souls whom Thou didst enable to enter beneath Thy sheltering shade and attain unto the great triumph...Verily Thou art the Pardoner, the Forgiver, and verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Kind, the Compassionate.  AB01522

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have acknowledged that which Thy Prophets have uttered. O Lord! I am the poor one who hath turned unto the ocean of Thy wealth, and I am the sinner who hath sought the Kawthar of Thy forgiveness.   BH10363

O Lord! Tears of grief have flowed for this severe calamity and sighs have risen in this great bereavement...O Lord! I implore Thee and lament and weep before Thee, and I beseech Thy countless favors and Thy boundless pardon and forgiveness for this blessed Branch who turned to Thee   AB04164

O my Lord! Thou seest me standing before the door of Thy grace, clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy loving-kindness. I beseech Thee by the Name through which the earth was overturned and its high places made low, to forgive me and whosoever hath acknowledged Thy unity and oneness.   BH01051

O Lord! I am the thirsty one, and with Thee is the Kawthar of life; I am the transgressor, and with Thee is the ocean of forgiveness. Deprive me not, O my God, from the ocean of Thy bounty, and make me not deprived of Thy grace, O Thou in Whose grasp is the kingdom of all possibilities.  BH01543

O God, My God! This is one of Thy humble and lowly maidservants who hath fervently prayed to the kingdom of Thy unity. She hath implored Thee in the heart of dawn, and besought Thee in the dark of night and at the height of day, relying upon Thee and imploring Thy forgiveness and pardon.  AB12793

We beseech God, exalted be He, to forgive you and ordain for you that which shall profit you in all His worlds. Verily He is potent over all things and worthy to answer. May He send down upon you His blessings and ordain for you attendance before His presence or the reward of meeting Him.   BH02331

O Kind God! We are sinful and You are the Forgiver. We are wicked and You are the Pardoning, All-Forgiving One. Though the waves of sin have risen high, yet we trust in Your pardon and forgiveness. Though the flood of disobedience has reached its peak, yet we cling to Your grace and bounty.   AB06737

Have mercy, O Most Merciful One of the heavens and earth, and forgive, O All-Forgiving One, those who dwell in the kingdom of command and creation. O Lord! Thou seest the sinner seeking after the waves of the ocean of Thy forgiveness and the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Thy pardon.   BH08943

Glorified art Thou, O my God! Forgive these souls, then forgive me and have mercy upon me, then pardon me for what I have committed before Thee, for this is a station Thou hast reserved for Thyself and made it a testimony of Thy Being and a guidance and a light and a mercy unto all the worlds.   BH01058

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to forgive thee and thy parents, and those who have turned to the Most Great Manifestation and believed in God, the One, the All-Informed. Verily, He forgiveth whom He willeth through His mercy, and chastiseth those who have denied the Day of Judgment.  BH01070

My God, my God! I am Your servant, despairing of myself, overwhelmed by my transgressions, my great sins, my severe disobedience, and my excessive rebellion. I have nothing except Your magnificent beneficence and all-encompassing forgiveness... Forgive my sins, pardon my errors and stumbles...   AB06005

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having strengthened me, caused me to know Thee, made me to hear, and guided me unto Thy straight path and Thy mighty announcement. I beseech Thee... Forgive me through Thy grace and generosity, then ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.   BH03498

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy servants and Thy creation, and Thou knowest them better than they know themselves. Transform their evil into good and their injustice into justice. Then, O my God, extinguish the fire of hatred and animosity with the Kawthar of Thy mercy and the water of Thy grace.   BH00313

O Pure God! Look not upon her shortcomings, for Thou art the Lord of forgiveness. Deal not with her according to justice, for Thou art the Master of abundant grace. Though transgressions be endless, Thy pardon and forgiveness are greater still. Thou art the Merciful, the Bestower, the All-Loving.  AB04514

Therefore, O my Beloved, forgive me and my transgressions which I have committed before Thee, for my very mention of Thee is a sin that nothing in earth or heaven can equal. Then forgive my parents, my loved ones, my kindred and my relatives, for verily Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful.   BH00295

O Kind One! O Radiant and Resplendent Bestower! [Name] was wandering and bewildered in this world. Grant him order and arrangement in Thy world. He was without refuge or shelter - give him a dwelling and abode in the shelter of Thy Great Mercy...Thou art the Forgiver, the Illuminator, the Kind One.  AB09825

O Bestower of kindness! A handmaiden most humble and meek, powerless and helpless, lowly and suppliant, hath returned and sought refuge at the court of Thy grandeur. To grant forgiveness and pardon and to be clement beseemeth a master. Withhold not, therefore, O Lord, Thy mercy and Thy forgiveness.  AB07230

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having illumined me with the lights of the Orb of Thy bounty and for having sent down unto me that which hath drawn me nigh unto the shore of the ocean of Thy nearness. O Lord! Adorn my temple with the robe of righteousness and my head with the crown of detachment.  BH00452

Lord, Lord! We are sinners and Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful. We are transgressors and Thou art the Pardoner, the All-Bountiful. Deal not with us according to what we deserve, but deal with us according to Thy forgiveness, Thy pardon and Thy grace, O All-Merciful, O All-Compassionate!  AB05418

Write down for me, O my God, the good of this world and the next. Then forgive me and my parents and those for whom Thou hast desired the wondrous tokens of Thy bounty and favor. Thou art He through Whose Name the ocean of forgiveness surged and the fragrance of Thy name, the All-Merciful, was wafted.   BH01179

"Mr. Mirza Haydar-'Ali Iskaui, with utmost humility and need, offered prayers and supplications to the Kingdom of Mystery, and sought endless forgiveness for you - that is, a spring like that of Job: 'This is a cool bath and drink' - so that you may be resurrected in perfect health, wellness and safety"  AB03978

I beseech Thee at this moment to forgive those who have been heedless of Thy Most Great Remembrance and have turned to that which their desires have craved. Then forgive them, for they are Thy servants and Thy bondsmen, and they possess for themselves neither profit nor loss, neither life nor resurrection.  BH01215

O my Lord and my hope and ultimate desire! Verily Your servant Muhammad supplicates to Your kingdom and implores Your dominion and seeks Your pardon and forgiveness for his noble father and beloved brother... Forgive his father and brother their sins and errors, admit them to the garden of grace and bounty   AB00568

Having acknowledged, O my God, with my soul, my tongue, mine essence, and with mine inner and outer being, all my trespasses, whose like mortal eyes have never beheld nor human minds conceived, I implore Thee to pardon me and Thy loved ones for whatsoever we have failed to observe of Thy laws and ordinances.  BH00598

And as for the request for forgiveness and pardon specifically for thyself and thy parents, this blessed word issued forth from the horizon of the Mouth of Will: "God hath answered what thou didst desire from the wonders of His grace and the ocean of His forgiveness. Verily, He is the Generous, the Bountiful."  BH04481

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the Mirrors reflecting Thy beauty and the Daysprings manifesting Thy majesty, that Thou forgive those who have migrated in Thy path and journeyed from their homes to the wellspring of union with Thee, and who have detached themselves from all else to reach the city of Thy presence   BH02993

O Lord! Verily, Thy servant Muhammad-'Ali seeketh forgiveness for his father and sister, who responded to the call and turned unto Thee with hearts assured of Thy grace and bounty. O Lord! Forgive them through Thy mercy which hath preceded all things, and cause them to enter the precincts of Thy supreme mercy.  AB09136

O my Lord! I am he who hath turned unto Thee and hath placed his trust in Thee. Ordain for me what shall profit me in Thy worlds. Verily Thou knowest what is within myself while I know not what is within Thyself. Thou art verily the Almighty, the Powerful. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH03584

I beseech Thee, O Thou the Desire of the world and the Beloved of the nations, to ordain for him who hath turned unto Thee and desired to hold fast unto that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, the good of this world and of the next. Then decree for him what Thou hast decreed for Thy chosen ones and trustees.   BH09392

"I am a sinner, O my Lord, and Thou art the Ever-Forgiving. As soon as I recognized Thee, I hastened to attain the exalted court of Thy loving-kindness. Forgive me, O my Lord, my sins which have hindered me from walking in the ways of Thy good-pleasure, and from attaining the shores of the ocean of Thy oneness."  BH07106

My God, my God! Adorn the temples of the heedless with the light of acceptance, the deniers with the ornament of recognition, and the idolaters with the radiance of unity and oneness. O my Lord! Aid them to return to the gate of Thy forgiveness. Verily Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.   BH05581

O Lord! Grant the parents of Haji Aqa a place in the shelter of Thy pardon and forgiveness and immerse them in the ocean of Thy mercy. Quicken souls and make them aware, and through Thy grace and great bounty forgive sin and grant access to the Kingdom of Thy favor. Thou art the Bestower, the Giver, and the Kind.  AB04132

"Our Lord! Forgive me and those who have appeared before the Countenance and her and her sister's son." This ended. This is a great glad-tiding. God willing, may all attain the robe of forgiveness. We continually beseech this from God, exalted be His glory, and it will surely be adorned with the honor of acceptance.  BH01076

O my God and my Lord! How can I seek Thy forgiveness for my grievous sins and my great transgressions, knowing that all this was naught but the warbling of the Dove of Thine eternity in my heart, the surging of the waves of Thy love in my breast, and the manifestation of the countenance of Thy identity in my heart?   BH00775

O Lord! Forgive the one who has sought the vicinity of Your vast mercy, and pardon Your servant who has turned toward Your broad and distant threshold. Immerse him in the seas of Your forgiveness and pardon, and grant him the cup of Your grace and forgiveness. Verily You are the Pardoning, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  AB03447

I beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to assist them to return unto Him, to turn in repentance at the door of His bounty, and to stand before the throne of His justice. Then I beseech Thee, O my God, to forgive me and my son, and whosoever hath held fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clung to the hem of Thy grace.   BH00561

"O my Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden, clinging to the cord of Thy bounty and holding fast to the hem of Thy mercy...to purify me and Thy other handmaiden, through the Kawthar of Thy utterance and the Salsabil of Thy bounty, from every sin and error which Thou hast inscribed by Thy knowledge."   BH04880

Then I beseech Thee, O my God and my Beloved, by Thy Most Beautiful Names and Thy most exalted attributes, and by the Manifestation of Thy Most Great Name, and by Thy resplendent beauty in the heaven of eternity, that Thou forgive me and my parents and my brothers and my kindred, and that Thou absolve them of their misdeeds  BH02728

O Lord! Forgive me and those with me, those who have held fast to Thy firm handles and clung to the hem of Thy luminous robe. Then draw the hearts of Thy creation to the horizon of the heaven of Thy manifestation. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Ever-Flowing, the Most Generous, the All-Forgiving, the Most Merciful.   BH01470

O Kind Lord! Sin is as the darkness of night, while Thy pardon and forgiveness are as rays of light. In the presence of brilliant light, what effect can the darkness of the earthly realm have? And in the presence of the sun, what power can shadows possess? Thou art the All-Forgiving, the Bestower, the Kind, the Resplendent.  AB08049

I beseech Thee by the wonders of Thy verses, and the standards of Thy clear proofs, and that which the tongue of Thy grandeur hath spoken, to aid those who have turned away to turn towards Thee, the calumniators to be truthful, the deniers to acknowledge, and the irreligious to return to the gate of Thy pardon and forgiveness   BH02451

O Lord! Thou art the Generous One, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful. Do not hold us to account for grievous sin, but treat us according to Thy mighty grace. Forgive these souls who have appeared at Thy spacious gate, who have placed their trust in Thee and turned to Thee, yearning for grace and forgiveness before Thee.  AB05020

Though we are sinners and evildoers, drowned in rebellion and fallen into oppression and transgression, yet we are helpless and wandering, with hearts torn into a hundred pieces. We offer prayers and present our needs, seeking pardon and forgiveness, grace and mercy. We are worthy of forgiveness and deserving of favor and pardon.  AB07989

I ask forgiveness of Thee by Thy names and attributes! Deal not with me according to my deserts, for verily Thou art the God of virtue and the Lord of forgiveness. Verily I seek Thy pardon and repent before Thee of all that was ascribed to me instead of that which was worthy of Thee, for Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful.  BB00131

O my God! This is a maidservant who hath turned toward the horizon of Thy mercy, seeking Thy pardon and forgiveness, imploring Thy clemency and remission for her mother who hath returned unto Thee and come into Thy presence. O Lord! Purify her from her sins and forgive her through Thy mercy, O Thou Most Merciful of the merciful ones!  AB10332

I beseech Thee, O Ancient Lord, by the Most Great Name through which Thou didst subdue the world and didst open before their faces the gates of bounty, grace and generosity, that Thou mayest acquaint Thy servants with that which they have neglected, then draw them near, O my God, to the ocean of Thy bestowal [and heaven of] Thy gifts.  BH04748

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by those who were martyred in Thy path and soared in the atmosphere of Thy love in such wise that the power of the world could not hold them back from the Most Great Name, that Thou forgive me and my father and my mother and whosoever hath held fast unto Thy Strong Cord, O God of the worlds!   BH03330

Verily, I have been among the wrongdoers, and I call upon Thee in the darkness of remoteness that there is no God but Thee. Glory be unto Thee! Verily, I am of those who repent. Answer Thou my prayer and have mercy upon me, for Thou art the Beloved of them that know Thee, and praise be unto Thee, for Thou art God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH00916

I seek Thy forgiveness for what I have said and say. And I say thereafter and beseech Thee to transform all that Thy knowledge encompasseth of me into that which befitteth Thy Self and that which characterized Thy station of majesty and glory, grandeur and beauty, might and grace, power and beneficence, through Thy favor and Thy generosity  BB00050

Glorified art Thou, O my God, my Lord and my Support! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Bountiful, and glorified art Thou, O my God, I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Forgiving, and glorified art Thou, O my God, I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Concealer, to conceal the sins of Thy servants and whatsoever they have committed in Thy days.  BH05404

O Forgiver, we are all sinners and wrongdoers. Thou art the Forgiver, Thou art the Bestower, the Kind. Look not upon our worth and merit, but look upon Thy grace and pardon. Immerse us in the ocean of forgiveness and make us companions of the Supreme Concourse in the Most Glorious Paradise. Thou art the Merciful, Thou art the All-Compassionate.  AB10871

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy mercy and the effulgences of the lights of the sun of Thy grace, to aid Thy heedless servants to return to the court of Thy glory and to enter the precincts of Thy grandeur. O Lord! Disappoint them not through Thy bounty and generosity, and deprive them not from the heaven of Thy bestowals.  BH11873

O Lord! O Forgiver! Though we are sinners and tread the path of rebellion, yet we knock at the door of forgiveness and seek Thy good-pleasure, speak Thy mysteries, and implore pardon and forgiveness. We seek Thy boundless favors and ask for Thy blessing and forgiveness. Look not upon our shortcomings and perceive not our weakness and lassitude.   AB11826

O Pure Lord! We are all sinners, and Thou art the Forgiver. We are all filled with faults, and Thou art the Remover of difficulties. Record not the sins of these wrongdoers in the Preserved Tablet, and erase them from the outstretched parchment. Look not upon our worthiness and capacity - deal with us in a manner befitting Thy merciful threshold.  AB07738

O peerless Lord! This destitute one has fallen at Thy threshold, bewildered and distracted, enamored and devoted, seeking forgiveness for a loving mother. Thou art the one true Bestower and the Giver to all, whether friend or stranger. Grant forgiveness that it may cause the rain of mercy to descend and nourish the soul of that honored handmaiden.  AB09940

O Lord! His brother Yahya hath called upon Thy servants who circle round the throne of Thy mercy to seek forgiveness for that one who hath ascended to the highest horizon of reunion. Therefore all are calling upon Thee with tongues of supplication and lowliness, and seeking forgiveness for him. Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  AB07781

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Manifestation through Whom the Hour was thrown into commotion and the Resurrection took flight, and every intimate friend and confidant fell away, and through Whom darkness was illumined and the Word shone forth and the proof was perfected, to clothe her with the robe of forgiveness and purify her from transgression.  BH03357

O Compassionate Lord! These three souls are deserving of pardon and forgiveness, and worthy of Thy grace and bounty. O Thou Shelter of the helpless! Forgive the sins of the sinners and teach wisdom to the ignorant. Set the ocean of forgiveness in motion, that every soul stained with sin may become tranquil and pure, and all faces may become radiant.  AB08051

O Lord! O Forgiver of sins! O Pardoning One! O Ever-Forgiving! Aid Thy repentant servant Qanbar, pardon him, forgive him, and cause him to enter the gardens of Thy good-pleasure. Immerse him in the seas of Thy forgiveness and bounty, and grant him the blessing of attaining Thy presence. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the All-Bestowing.  AB07493

I prostrate my face upon the dust and beseech Thee to visit these dear ones with Thy grace and Thy mercy, O Lord of lords. Lord! Illumine their faces with the light of Thy loving-kindness, assist their souls through Thy grace and assistance, and ordain for them every good thing in the kingdom of mysteries within the precincts of Thine abundant mercy.   AB05496

O Lord! O Forgiver of sins and Accepter of repentance! O Most Merciful in this world and the next! Verily the servant has no Lord but You, and the sinner has no forgiver besides You... Treat us with Your grace, Your pardon and Your forgiveness, and do not hold us accountable for our negligence in Your path. Verily You are the Pardoning, the Forgiving.  AB03076

O my Forgiver, O my Pardoner! I press my face and soil my brow in the dust at the threshold of Thy sacred court, beseeching the outpouring of Thy pardon, Thy favor, Thy generosity and Thy grace for Thy servant who has turned to Thee and entered the precincts of Thy forgiveness and pardon. My God, my God! Pardon him and forgive him for the sake of his son  AB01876

O Lord, reach Thy servant Abdul-Rahim with Thy abundant grace, protect him from painful torment, admit him to the paradise of bliss, preserve him from the fires of hell, make him immortal in Thy great Kingdom, give him to drink from the spring of Tasnim, grant him the flowing water, and cause him to dwell in the vicinity of Thy mercy, O Lord of the worlds!  AB01708

O God, our Lord! Leave us not to ourselves, but preserve us through Thy power that encompasseth all things, and guard us from every slip and sin. Guide us along the shining white path and the radiant straight way, for we are sinners and Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful; we are transgressors and Thou art the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate.  AB00134

O God, O Forgiver of sins and Concealer of faults, O Remover of sorrows! Assist Your servant who has turned to You, through Your mercy which has preceded all things and Your grace which has been bestowed throughout the world of creation. Immerse him, O my God, in the oceans of Your pardon and purify him from every sin, and grant him an exalted seat of truth.   AB04232

O Forgiving and Kind One! O Just One! The handmaiden of Thy threshold, Malaki, has hastened to the realm of purity. Therefore, make her soul radiant and immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and grant her a portion from Thy grace and favor. Forgive her and bestow Thy loving-kindness upon her, and in the realm of mystery make her the companion of the angels.  AB09656

O my God, with what tongue shall I implore Thy forgiveness and pardon? Not once did I draw a breath purely for Thy sake, freed from this cage of self, nor did I take a single step save in pursuit of my own desires. O my God, so immersed am I in transgression that I am ashamed of the very act of transgression itself, let alone standing before Thy most holy presence.  BH11652

O my God, my God! Thou didst desire for Thy servants that which would exalt them in Thy lands, yet they have wrought that which hath rent asunder the veil of Thy sanctity. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the effulgences of the Orb of Thy Revelation to aid them to return unto Thee. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the All-Bountiful.   BH05964

Alas for me and for those who are like me and who walk in my path! It is as though I disobeyed Thee with every disobedience, O Thou in Whose hand is the dominion of forgiveness and pardon!...Then, O my God, did I return from all this unto Thee, disappointed, in loss, remorseful and abased, and I beseech Thee...that Thou show mercy unto me and forgive me and pardon me  BH01926

I beseech Thee by Thy bounty which hath encompassed all things, through which the Speaker of Sinai spoke and the dwellers of the graves arose, to assist me in that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love. Thou seest me, O my God, at this moment clinging to that which Thou didst reveal in the Qur'an to Thy Beloved One.   BH00605

And as for his supplication to God, exalted be His glory, seeking forgiveness for his parents, this was presented, and the Tongue of Grandeur spoke these words: "Upon them be the Glory of God. God hath forgiven them both as a favor from His presence unto thee, O 'Ali. This is naught but a great bounty. Be thou grateful and say: Praise be unto Thee, O God of the worlds."   BH00360

I beseech boundless bounties for thee and for thy father Khudarahm, and I seek the favors of the All-Merciful Lord. For Gulbanu Ardishir I seek sweet milk from the breast of forgiveness, and for the fortune of Ardishir I desire a portion and share from the bounty and pardon of the Lord of creation. And for Shahryar Khudabakhsh I seek boundless bounty and infinite favors.  AB08745

My God, my God, my Lord and my Hope! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy mercy, I humble myself before the Dominion of Thy oneness, I take refuge at the gate of Thy unity, and I seek abundance from the cloud of Thy mercy. I implore Thee to encompass these servants with the glances of the eye of Thy mercy and Thy favors, to immerse them in the ocean of Thy pardon and forgiveness  AB08496

O Pure Lord! Forgive the sins of Khudadad's father and mother and make those two souls pure and radiant. Free them from defilement and favor them with detachment. Grant them entry to the feast of meeting and make them joyful at the heavenly celebration. Deliver them from the furnace and bring them into the rose garden. Grant them release from death and bestow eternal life.   AB02612

"O my God! O my God! These are maidservants who have arisen in faithfulness at Thy holy threshold, O Lord of the Most Beautiful Names, and hastened to the wellspring of Thy mercy in the world of eternity. O Lord! Immerse them in the seas of Thy great mercy, and shelter them at Thy luminous holy threshold, and forgive them through Thy mercy which has encompassed all things."  AB11710

I beseech boundless blessings for thee and for thy father Khudarahm, and seek the favors of the Most Merciful Lord. For Gulbanu Ardeshir, I seek sweet milk from the breast of forgiveness, and for the prosperity of Ardeshir, I ask for a portion and share of the bounty and pardon of the Lord of creation. And for Shahriyar Khudabakhsh, I seek endless blessings and infinite favors.  AB08745

O God, O Gracious One, O Merciful One! I have turned to Thee, and am clinging to the cord of Thy bounty, and am holding fast to the hem of Thy generosity. Thou art the Gracious One - a single drop from the ocean of Thy forgiveness would wash away the transgressions of all mankind, and one word from the mouth of Thy grace would bestow the water of life upon all contingent beings.  BH00768

Aid me and aid Thy sincere servants through Thy great favor in all regions, grant bounty and pardon wrongdoing, remove the veil from the eyes of the people of passion, guide to the right path all who have gone astray and erred, take not to task those among Thy wretched servants who have transgressed and rebelled, but treat them with grace and beneficence and forgiveness of sins.  AB00591

I beseech Thee by the fish in the depths of the ocean of Thy oneness and by the mysteries of Thy Book which walketh and speaketh "There is none other God but Me, the Single One, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing," that Thou open before my face the door of Thy mercy and Thy grace, and that Thou send down upon me from the clouds of Thy generosity the rains of Thy bounty.   BH06018

I beseech Thee by the scratching of Thy Supreme Pen and the breezes of Thy Revelation, O Lord of the Kingdom of eternity, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the rain-showers of the clouds of Thy bounty, that Thou forgive me and my father and my mother and my kinsmen, and whosoever hath held fast unto the cord of Thy loving care and clung to the hem of Thy bounty.  BH01250

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden. I have turned unto Thee, clinging to the cord of Thy loving-kindness and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the breezes of the morn of Thy Revelation and the places honored by Thy footsteps, which Thou hast made the seat of Thy throne, that Thou forgive me...   BH03388

I beseech Thee by the sovereignty of Thy forgiveness, which hath encompassed the people of rebellion, that Thou forgive the father of Thy servant who communed with Thee in the hidden recesses of his heart and openly. Do Thou forgive his father who hath passed away. O my Lord! Immerse him in the ocean of Thy great mercy and lead him to the fountains of Thy pardon, O Forgiver of sins!  AB12720

O God, my God, my Creator, my Refuge and my Shelter! I implore Thy forgiveness for my sins, O Concealer of faults, and I seek pardon for my transgressions, O Bestower of gifts. My God, deal not with me according to my misdeeds, but rather treat me according to Thy grace and mercy. Let me drink from the cup of Thy pardon and forgiveness, and intoxicate me with the wine of Thy bounty.  AB10386

O Lord! I have committed that which no one among Thy servants hath committed. I am he who, O my God, hath transgressed against Thy Cause and done that which made the Most Great Spirit lament in the dominion of command and the dwellers of paradise tremble. Thus have I come unto Thee, O my Beloved, turning toward the direction of Thy forgiveness and gazing upon Thy grace and beneficence.  BH10404

Your letter arrived and supplications and entreaties were made at the threshold of the All-Knowing God, and forgiveness and pardon were sought from the Court of the Divine Unity for your father and mother and Mirza Nuru'llah Khan. It is hoped that, through the favors of the Glorious Lord, they may be immersed in the ocean of forgiveness and attain to the proximity of His supreme mercy.  AB09579

therefore this sinful servant makes supplication for pardon and forgiveness from the Lord, that He may cleanse and purify him from the earthly world and grant him passage to the celestial realm. This intercession with utmost entreaty was solely for the sake of you and your brothers, that Gushtasb may become pure in soul and that forgiveness and pardon may encompass that servant of God.  AB08933

My God, my God! I testify to the sanctity of Thy Being above mention and utterance, and the exaltation of Thy Self above what is ordained in contingent existence... O Lord! The thirst of separation from Thee hath consumed me - where is the sweet water of Thy mercy? My transgressions have removed me far from the court of Thy nearness - where are the waves of the ocean of Thy forgiveness?   BH01146

O Lord, O Forgiver, these are broken-winged birds - bestow upon them wings and feathers and enable them to soar in the heights of pardon and forgiveness. Grant these helpless ones shelter and refuge in the protection of Thy forgiveness. Forgive their errors, grant them Thy gifts, and fulfill what Thou hast promised. O Kind God, though we are sinners, we place our hopes in Thy forgiveness  AB07057

"My God, my God! Thy separation hath brought me to nothingness and my deeds have kept me far from Thee in Thy days. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which the fragrance of Thy mercy was wafted throughout creation, and by Thy loving-kindness whereby the ocean of forgiveness surged before the faces of all peoples, that Thou forgive me and those who have believed in Thee and in Thy verses."  BH08402

O Lord! Forgive the transgressions of these souls and conceal the misdeeds of these lowly ones. Thou art aware, Thou art knowing, Thou art informed, Thou art cognizant. We are sinners, we are transgressors, we are heedless, we are negligent. Thou art the Pardoner, Thou art the Forgiving, Thou art the Gracious, Thou art the Merciful. Verily Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Concealer of faults.  AB06090

No deed have I done, O my God, to merit beholding Thy face, and I know of a certainty that were I to live as long as the world lasts I would fail to accomplish any deed such as to deserve this favour, inasmuch as the station of a servant shall ever fall short of access to Thy holy precincts, unless Thy bounty should reach me and Thy tender mercy pervade me and Thy loving-kindness encompass me.  BB00374

O Lord! Make Your servant Elijah distinguished and successful in the eternal world. Grant pardon and forgiveness. Bestow Your ancient forgiveness, for the noble son is the intercessor for that sinful father. This son made up for that father - though that one was unaware, this one became a fruitful tree and is worthy of endless favors and kindnesses. You are the Giver, the Bestower, the Forgiver, the Kind.   AB03342

'Abdu'l-Baha likewise entreats the Threshold of Oneness with utmost fervor, weeping and hoping that perchance the musk-laden breeze of the Lord's forgiveness may reach the nostrils of the soul, and a wave from the ocean of divine pardon may wash over him, delivering him from the defilement of sins and transgressions. This is not far from the ocean of Baha's grace, His mercy, His pardon and His forgiveness.  AB01072

My God, my God! Verily Your maidservant who has attained salvation, Ziya'u'l-Hajiyyih, implores You begging forgiveness and pardon for her father, and supplicates You to make her father a sign of forgiveness shining in the horizon of pardon and beneficence. O Lord! Answer her prayer, facilitate her hopes, and grant her desire. Verily You are the Generous and verily You are the All-Merciful, the Compassionate.   AB05394

My God, my God! This servant of Thine has detached himself from all else save Thee and turned to the horizon of the heaven of Thy grace, and has affirmed Thy oneness and singleness, and acknowledged what hath been sent down from the heaven of Thy Will and the atmosphere of Thy Purpose... Thou art He through Whose power all things have testified and through Whose grace all created things have been manifest.  BH02231

O Lord of Grace and Forgiveness! Grant endless bounty to the servant of the Threshold Fadlu'llah and forgive his sins. Give Fatimah Begum an abundant portion and make her forgiven and pardoned. Make Zaynu'l-'Abidin one of those drawn nigh and raise him to the highest heaven. Make 'Inayatu'llah a manifestation of Thy greatest mercy and grant him mighty forgiveness. Thou art the Forgiver, the Giver, and the Kind One.  AB02288

Lauded be Thy name, O Lord of Being and Possessor of all things visible and invisible! I beseech Thee by the showers of Thy mercy, through which Thy bounties and favours were manifested unto Thy servants, and by the mysteries of Thy knowledge and the pearls of the ocean of Thy wisdom, to forgive me, and my parents, and every servant who hath clung firmly to this exalted station and hastened to this sublime habitation.  BH00704

Guide the lost one in the desert of longing to the pavilion of guidance, and direct the parched and burning one in the desert of remoteness to the sea of nearness and attainment. Immerse this assured leaf in this cool and healing water and wine, that she may be cleansed and sanctified from all the ills and diseases of the contingent world, enter Thy Kingdom of glory, and find rest beneath the tree of Thy mercifulness.  AB02458

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Godhead - there is none other God but Thee - O Thou besides Whom there is none other God, to forgive me by virtue of There is none other God but Thee. O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy creative power - there is none other God but Thee - O Thou besides Whom there is none other God, to forgive me by virtue of There is none other God but Thee. [continues through multiple verses with same pattern]  BB00278

My God, my God! Thou seest those who turned away from Thee and objected to Thee without any proof from Thee or evidence from Thy presence. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and by the splendors of the Day-Star of Thy grace and bounty to aid Thy servants to return unto Thee and to repent at the door of Thy generosity. Verily, Thou art powerful over what Thou willest through Thy word Be and it is.  BH01764

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! By Thy might! My transgressions have prevented me from turning toward the horizon of the heaven of Thy grace, and my sins from attaining presence before Thy face. Whenever I contemplate the ocean of Thy generosity and the sun of Thy bounty, joy overtaketh me from every direction, yet whenever I reflect upon my errors and transgressions, I long to hide my face beneath the layers of the earth.  BH06451

O my God! How can I call upon Thee when my sins have encompassed me from every direction and weigh heavily upon my back as if they were a mountain? Glory be unto Thee, O my Beloved! Here am I, casting myself before Thee that Thou mayest forgive my sins and make me as I was on the day Thou didst create me. O my God! If Thou turnest not toward me, to whom shall I turn? And if Thou hast no mercy upon me, unto whom shall I flee?   BB00673

O my God, my Beloved, my Helper and my Sustainer! How many days have I heard Thy mention and Thy call, yet failed to act in a manner befitting Thy days. Whenever I reflect upon myself, my grief and regret and sighs and shame increase. I beseech Thee, O Thou through Whose Name the ocean of forgiveness surged and the fragrance of the garment of Thy Name, the All-Merciful, was diffused, to assist me in serving Thee and remembering Thee.  BH10372

We beseech God to open our eyes and make us aware of ourselves and our deeds. If we are not enabled to know His exalted Self, may we at least be enabled to know our heedless selves, and may He remove from our faces the veils that prevent us from beholding Him rising from the horizon of grace and bounty, that we may detach ourselves from all who dwell in the realms of creation and turn wholly toward Him, for He is our All-Merciful Lord.  BH00956

O Ocean of pardon and forgiveness, O Sun of forbearance and grace and benevolence! Assist Thy supplicating servant, purify him from sin, save him from deprivation, raise him from the abyss of separation, admit him into the garden of the All-Merciful, shelter him in Thy proximity O Bestower, shade him beneath the tree of Thy mercy O Helper, grant him the joy of meeting Thee, perfect Thy mercy upon him, and shower Thy blessings upon him.  AB03864

My God, my God! Thou seest me standing before the door of Thy grace, seeking the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause through which Thou didst send down the heavenly table to Thy servants and caused the rain of Thy mercy to shower upon Thy creation, to send down from the clouds of the heaven of Thy generosity upon this servant of Thine a blessing from Thee and a bounty from Thy presence and a mercy from Thy side.   BH01985

O my Lord! I am he who transgressed against Thee and opposed Thy beauty, being occupied with my self and my desires, and verily Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. O my Lord! When I recognized Thy Self, I sought Thy forgiveness for what I had been and for what appeared from my tongue and issued from my mouth and occurred to my heart, and I have turned unto Thee with my whole being, for verily Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  BH00071

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I am he who was neglectful in Thy path and followed the ways of fancy and imagination, being veiled from the recognition of the Manifestation of Thy Self, and I argued with that which burned the liver of Ali and then the heart of Muhammad, the Messenger of God, as though I had slain all existence, both seen and unseen. Therefore, O my God, look upon me with the glances of Thy mercy and leave me not to myself and my desires.  BH00004

My God, my God! Thou seest me casting my face in the dust of lowliness before Thy mighty Oneness, and seeking forgiveness for Thy servant who hath forsaken all contingent things and soared on wings of longing to the unseen realm of the worlds. O Lord! He hath come before Thee and approached Thy threshold, seeking Thy pardon and hoping for Thy grace, awaiting the manifestations of Thy tender mercy. Do Thou forgive him and his companion who hath returned unto Thee  AB08493

I beseech Thee, O God of the world and Desire of the nations, to aid him and those who turned away to return unto Thee and to repent at the door of Thy mercy. Thou knowest that I summoned him in all conditions unto Thee until he drew against Me the sword of hatred and there appeared from him that which caused the limbs of all things to quake. O Lord! Help him to return to the door of Thy mercy, which Thou hast opened through Thy Most Great Name unto all peoples.   BH00436

O Forgiving Lord! Forgive the sins of Thy faithful servant Khudarahm, conceal his errors, bestow Thy gifts, cleanse him from the defilement of disobedience, and admit him into the luminous realm. O Lord! Though we are sinners and confess our sins, we are worthy of the forgiveness of the Lord. O Forgiving One! Thou art the Bestower and the Kind, the Brilliant and the Radiant One. Make worthy Thy freely-given grace and bounty. Thou art the Forgiver, the Merciful One.  AB08621

In the Name of our Lord, the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing! My God, my God! Thou seest mine eyes fixed upon the horizon of Thy grace and the hands of this poor one raised to the heaven of Thy bounty. Whenever I contemplate Thy justice, O my God, my limbs tremble, my heart is agitated, my joints quiver, my sighs ascend and my tears fall. Yet whenever I contemplate Thy grace and Thy dealings with Thy loved ones, my spirit soars, my heart is assured and my soul finds rest.  BH01752

O my God, if Thou shouldst withhold from me the Euphrates of Thy forgiveness and the ocean of Thy mercy, who would show mercy to me and forgive me? Alas! Alas! I have abandoned what Thou didst command me and committed what Thou didst forbid me. By Thy might! Despite my acknowledgment of my grievous sins and great transgressions, I testify that they all are as nothing before the waves of the ocean of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy pardon and the sun of Thy generosity.   BH01692

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy generosity and the ultimate extent of Thy mercy, to preserve the absence of Thy proof, son of Thy proof, whom Thou hast established in the station of Thy authority, the sign of Thy lordship, the sovereign of Thy dominion, the face of Thy oneness, the gate of Thy eternality, and the guardian of the days of Thy grandeur and majesty, for the establishment of Thy religion and the traditions of Thy Prophet, through all the hosts of the heavens and earth.  BB00013

O Lord! Thou seest them cast upon the earth of heedlessness and forgetfulness, their deeds having prevented them from soaring in the atmosphere of Thy love, from turning to Thy face, and from entering the paradise of Thy presence. I beseech Thee, O Desired One of the world and Lord of the nations, by Thy mercy which Thou hast made the supreme cause for the tranquility and joy of Thy chosen ones, by Thy bounty and grace and favors, to deliver them from the darkness of self and passion.   BH00190

After the performance of many ceremonials the Mullah in his most solemn voice asked the patient to repeat the formula "Oh God! I have sinned much. Confer upon me thy forgiveness." ... O Lord! O Lord! I am a real sinner and thou art the just God! I beg Thy Mercy! I have committed many sins. I have not done that which Thou hast commanded me and have practiced those things thou hast made unlawful. With humility and contrition I am standing in thy presence. Do with me whatever thou willest!  ABU1292

I beseech Thee by the finger of Thy power and will whereby the spheres of utterance revolved amidst the Concourse of creation, and by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and the manifestations of Thy grandeur in the kingdom of creation, and by this grave which Thou hast made the point of circumambulation for Thy servants and creatures, that Thou forgive me and my father and my mother and whosoever hath hastened to the gate of Thy grandeur and before the throne of Thy manifestation.   BH02029

O Thou Peerless God! Thou art the refuge for the hapless, the sanctuary for the destitute wanderers, the abode of hope for those who are free from all else save Thee. O God, we are bereft of hope and confidence, remote from kin and stranger alike. We beseech the Realm of the All Glorious, seeking bounties anew. O Lord in the Highest! Send down the rays of Thy bounty and look upon us with the glances of the eye of Thy mercy. Free us from grievous tests and deliver us from rigorous trials.  AB06468

O wise Nush! As thy kind father is loving towards thee and well-behaved and benevolent towards thy brothers, therefore this sinful servant beseecheth forgiveness and pardon from the Lord, that He may cleanse and purify him from the earthly realm and grant him entrance to the celestial sphere. This intercession with utmost supplication was solely for thy sake and that of thy brothers, that Gushtasp may become pure in spirit and that forgiveness and pardon may encompass that servant of God.  AB08933

We beseech Him, exalted be He, by the ocean of His forgiveness, the heaven of His grace, and the sun of His mercy which hath preceded all created things, to send down upon him a heavenly feast and a blessing from His presence, and to cause him to enter the Most Exalted Paradise. Verily, He is the Bestower, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful. We have purified him at the time of his ascension from the world's defilement and forgiven him through Our grace, for We are the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.   BH00514

O Lord! This is Thy handmaiden who hath believed in the revelation of Thy Kingdom and taken refuge in the shelter of Thy forgiveness and supplicated unto the heaven of Thy pardon and turned toward the direction of Thy mercy. Forgive her, O my God, her sins and atone for her misdeeds and cause her to enter into the fountain of Thy pardon and mercy and admit her into the gardens of Thy bounty beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy oneness and grant her sustenance in the Kingdom of Thy presence.  AB07862

Say thou: My God, my God! I disavow their deeds and actions and whatsoever hath proceeded from their mouths. I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and Goal of all peoples, by Thy Most Great Name through which the gates of knowledge and wisdom were opened to all who are in Thy heaven and earth, and the ocean of understanding surged in the contingent world through Thy bounty and generosity, to forgive me and ordain for this servant of Thine that which will draw him nigh unto Thee in all conditions.   BH05492

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by this leaf who held fast to the Tree of Thy Revelation, and by the blood that was shed in the land of Ya in Thy path, and by their patience and fortitude, their humility and submissiveness, and by the tears that were shed in separation from Thee, and by the sighs that were raised in remoteness from Thee, that Thou forgive whosoever hath visited her and drawn nigh unto her resting-place and spoken that which the Tongue of Grandeur hath uttered in Thy prison.   BH01164

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I bear witness with my outer and inner tongue that Thou art God; there is none other God but Thee, the One, the Single, the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise... Thou seest and hearest, O my God, my sighing and my weeping, my crying and my lowliness and my tribulation. O Lord! The temple of disobedience seeketh the waves of the ocean of Thy forgiveness and pardon, and the essence of heedlessness seeketh the wonders of Thy gifts and favors.   BH00528

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to the ocean of Thy bounty and for having remembered me in the prison when I was wronged at the hands of Thy servants. I beseech Thee, O Illuminator of the horizons and the One manifest on the Day of Meeting, by Thy Name through which the back of hypocrisy was broken, to assist me to be steadfast in Thy Cause and Thy love. O Lord! Deprive not Thy thirsty servant of the Kawthar of Thy grace, nor the poor one of the treasury of Thy generosity and bounty.   BH02952

O Thou Living and Omnipotent One! Thou art the Shelter of sinners, the Bestower and the Forgiver. We are immersed in sin, and Thou art the Ocean of bounty. We are in the darkness of rebellion, and Thou art the Sun of grace and favor. O Lord! Look not upon our shortcomings, and deal not with us according to our unworthiness and utter impotence. We are abased and sick - make us mighty and glorious. Bestow healing, grant the supreme remedy of forgiveness and pardon. O Forgiver! Take us not to task for our sins.  AB07931

Turn, then, thy face towards Him in such wise that the faces of all beings will turn in the direction of His shining and luminous Horizon, and say: Thou seest me, O my Lord, with my face turned towards the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy favor, withdrawn from all else beside Thee. I ask of Thee, by the splendors of the Sun of Thy revelation on Sinai, and the effulgences of the Orb of Thy grace which shineth from the horizon of Thy Name, the Ever-Forgiving, to grant me Thy pardon and to have mercy upon me.  BH00005

O Kind Lord! Send a wave from the ocean of forgiveness upon this helpless leaf, and waft a musk-scented breeze from the garden of pardon to the nostrils of that yearning soul. O Lord! Thou art the refuge and shelter of the sinful, and the Forgiver and the Merciful to the erring. This pure leaf hath soared to the Kingdom of Mystery; shelter her in Thy mercy and make her the confidant and companion of the birds of the holy garden. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind, Thou art the Forgiver, the Compassionate, the Bountiful.  AB11158

O Lord! Vain imaginings have prevented them from turning unto Thee and entering the depths of the ocean of Thy oneness. I beseech Thee by the power that hath encompassed all created things and by the might before which all possibilities have bowed down, that Thou assist Thy weak servants to turn unto Thee and to behold the lights of Thy countenance. Thou art He to Whose forgiveness, generosity and mercy all things have testified. Aid Thy servants through Thy bounty, Thy favors and Thy might, O Thou Goal of the world!   BH00401

O Lord of pardon and forgiveness! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Merciful, to accept the repentance of Thy servant Husayn, and give him to drink from the two flowing springs, and forgive his sins, and make him abide forever in the two dark green gardens. O Lord! He is the intimate companion of the loved ones, the captive of loyalty, and the one who seeks refuge at the Most Exalted Threshold. Therefore forgive his sins and pardon his misdeeds. Verily, Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful, the All-Merciful.  AB08107

O my God, my God! Thou knowest my powerlessness, my brokenness, my restlessness, my distress, my terror and my agitation in the depths of nights and dawn's early hours. Thou knowest my devotions, my vigils, my supplications and my entreaties at morn and eventide. I lament and weep at my heedlessness, my forgetfulness, my transgressions and my shortcomings in my servitude at the threshold of Thy oneness and the court of Thy singleness. I melt in shame at my lapses and burn in the fire of my remorse for my abundant misdeeds.  AB00183

Through Thy mercy cause these two servants of Thy threshold, who are humble before Thy sovereignty, submissive to Thy majesty, and lowly and broken-winged at Thy door, to attain the kingdom of Thy bounty. Lord! Mend their broken bones, dress their wounds, treat their maladies, and immerse them in the sea of Thy mercy. By Thy grace and bounteousness, wash away their sins and make them signs of Thy pardon and forgiveness in the kingdom of Thy holiness, and banners of Thy favor and loving-kindness in the dominion of Thy sovereignty.  AB07159

O Thou Self-Sufficing One! Come to the aid of Rashid Khudadad. Illumine Dawlat Rashid with the rays of the sun. Grant unto Khurshid Isfandiyar a portion and share of the divine presence. Make these lovers of Thy countenance intoxicated with the wine of Thy favor, that they may raise up passionate cries and lift their voices in ecstasy, and through beholding the lights and the sweetness of attaining Thy presence in the court of that Lord, may they become the recipients of the gift of pardon and forgiveness and of favors and bounties.  AB07980

O my God, my Beloved, my Mover, my Attractor, the One Who calls in my heart and the Beloved of my inmost being! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to turn to Thy countenance, to be enkindled with Thy remembrance, to call out Thy Name, and to voice Thy praise. O my Lord! O my Lord! Were heedlessness not to exist, how would the standards of Thy mercy be raised and the banners of Thy generosity be unfurled? And were error not to be declared, how would it be known that Thou art the Concealer, the Forgiver, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise?  BH01231

O my God! Thou knowest that this is an exalted night and the final evening, as the nights of this month of Thine and these days of Thy fasting draw to a close. We have witnessed naught against ourselves save what Thou hast witnessed against us. These hours have passed in heedlessness and its moments elapsed in forgetfulness. Thou, O my God, art the King of beneficence and the Ancient of favors. Therefore, bestow upon us as Thou didst bestow upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad and the followers of Muhammad and the servants of Muhammad.  BB00081

O my Lord and my Hope! O Forgiver of sins, O Remover of afflictions, O Concealer of faults! I ask Thy forgiveness for Thy handmaiden who hath returned unto Thee, drawn nigh unto Thee, and presented herself before Thee, humble, submissive, fearful of Thy chastisement, thirsting for the sweet waters of Thy river. O Lord! Strip from her the garment of sins and clothe her with the robes of forgiveness through Thy mercy, O Knower of the hidden and Concealer of faults! Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful, the Pardoning, the Generous.  AB09677

O Lord! Though we are sinners, Thy forgiveness is greater than any sin. Though the darkness of rebellion is evident and manifest, the star of Thy mercy is more brilliant than the shining moon - its radiance dispels that darkness, and its wave removes that dross and debris. O Lord! O Forgiver! Thy bestowal hath given new life to creation, and the sun of Thy bounty hath shone from the horizon of contingent being. With such gifts, what care or concern have the sinners? All seek refuge in Thy mighty shelter and protection in Thy lofty stronghold.  AB02461

O God! With what face shall I turn to Thy Kingdom of Abha, and with what tongue shall I supplicate and implore Thee? O my God! This sinful servant hath borne every transgression, sin and iniquity that falleth within the compass and reckoning of Thy knowledge. Yet with utmost boldness and assurance he standeth at the door of Thy hope, seeking Thy pardon and forgiveness, and beseeching Thy ancient and wondrous grace and bounty. Verily Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful, and verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Lord of surpassing grace.   BH00902

O my Lord and my Hope! O Forgiver of sins! O Remover of afflictions! O Concealer of faults! I implore Thy forgiveness for Thy handmaiden who hath returned unto Thee, and drawn nigh unto Thee, and presented herself before Thee in humility and submissiveness, in fear of Thy chastisement, thirsting for the sweet waters of Thy grace. O Lord! Strip from her the garment of sins and clothe her in the robes of forgiveness through Thy mercy, O Knower of the unseen and Concealer of faults! Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful, the Forgiving, the Generous.  AB09677

My God, my God! Verily, this pure and righteous one seeks Thy great mercy, fears the fires of retribution, seeks healing from Thy cup brimming with the wine of Thy supreme forgiveness, and yearns for the living waters in the Garden of Delight. O Lord! Enfold him within the glances of Thy merciful eye, grant him Thy gifts in the spiritual worlds, and pardon his transgressions through the outpourings of Thy divine mercy. Verily, Thou art the Forgiver of sins, the Concealer of faults, the Remover of difficulties, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.  AB09133

O Kind Lord! Surush has been stirred to fervor and supplication, and seeks forgiveness for his father, the pure-born Kayqubad. Thou art the Forgiver, the Kind One. Through the grace of this son, forgive that father and draw him nigh unto the threshold of Thy oneness. O All-Knowing Lord! This servant at Thy threshold, Bahman, begs pardon for the sins of his father Bahram. Therefore, through Thy grace and favor, grant refuge to Bahram Pulad in the shelter of Thy mercy and deliver him from the darkness of sin. Thou art the Forgiver, the Pardoner, the All-Merciful.  AB08055

O my God, my God! Thou seest mine eyes gazing toward the horizon of Thy grace, and the hands of this poor one raised toward the heaven of Thy generosity. Whenever I contemplate, O my God, Thy justice, my limbs tremble, my heart is troubled, my joints quiver, my sighs ascend and my tears fall... I have done in my days what Thou didst forbid in Thy Books and through the tongues of Thy Messengers. I acknowledge, O my God, my transgression against myself... O Lord! Thou seest the sinner seeking the ocean of Thy forgiveness, and him that is far removed yearning for the court of Thy nearness.   BH00588

My God, my God! Verily, this pure and righteous one seeketh Thy greatest mercy, and feareth the fires of retribution, and seeketh healing from Thy cup brimming with the wine of Thy supreme forgiveness, and longeth to drink from the living waters in the garden of paradise. O Lord! Encompass him with the glances of Thine all-merciful eye, and grant him Thy gifts in the spiritual worlds, and forgive his transgressions through the abundance of Thy divine mercy. Verily Thou art the Forgiver of sins, the Concealer of faults, the Dispeller of sorrows, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.  AB09133

O my God, my God! A servant among Thy servants hath beseeched another servant among Thy servants, and a soul among Thy loved ones hath implored the most humble of Thy bondsmen, desiring to hear a word of good pleasure and to be gladdened by an expression of joy concerning that which hath passed. O my Lord! This helpless, lowly one is ashamed of his sins and abashed at his transgressions, both manifest and hidden. How can he utter a word of good pleasure? Therefore, O my God, through Thy bounty, generosity and beneficence be Thou pleased with him, and through Thy grace and favors make him well-pleased.  AB07856

My God, my God! Thou seest me laying my brow upon the dust of lowliness and submission, pressing my face to the earth of utter nothingness before Thy unity, O my chosen Lord, humbly, submissively, imploringly supplicating unto the Kingdom of Thy lights by night and by day, that Thou mayest look upon us with the eye of Thy loving-kindness and the glances of Thy mercy, forgive our sins and our errors, and deal with us according to Thy grace and bounty in all conditions. Our Lord! We are sinners, and Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful. We are transgressors, and Thou art the Pardoner, the Generous.  AB00037

O my God! Thou knowest that in all matters I have desired naught save Thy love and the knowledge of the ways of obedience unto Thee. If I have acquired aught else besides this, by Thy might and majesty, it was not through my denial of Thy oneness nor my rejection of Thy unity. Rather, since Thou didst create within my soul the signs of the manifestations of Thy dominion, I followed my desires in accordance with what I loved before the city of Thy omnipotence. Through this, destiny hath aided me in finding Thy grace from the beginning. Therefore forgive me whatsoever Thy knowledge encompasseth besides this.   BB00156

O my Lord, my Hope, the Ultimate Goal of my desires, my Refuge and my Shelter! I implore Thee with the imploring of a supplicant before the transcendent King, and I beseech Thee to encompass with Thy favors Thy handmaiden who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs. Immerse her in the ocean of Thy forgiveness and crown her with the crown of Thy pardon and beneficence. O Lord! Illumine her eyes with the vision of Thy beauty and expand her breast through her attainment of Thy presence in the gathering of mysteries and the kingdom of lights. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Mighty, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB03547

O My Lord! Guide the servants to the court of Thy bounty and gifts, and deprive them not of the wonders of Thy grace and favors, for they know not what Thou hast intended for them of Thy mercy that hath preceded all creation. O My Lord! These are the weak in public and orphans in private, and Thou art the Generous, the Lord of surpassing bounty, the Most Great. Deal not severely with them, O My God, but regard them until the time befitting Thy wondrous mercy, that perchance they may return unto Thee and seek forgiveness for that which they have committed in Thy presence. Verily Thou art the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH00627

O my God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden. I have turned unto Thee, clinging to the cord of Thy bounty and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the breezes of the dawn of Thy Manifestation and by the places which were honored by Thy footsteps and which Thou didst make the seat of Thy throne, that Thou forgive me and make me of those who have been so attracted by the wine of Thy revelation and inspiration that nothing whatsoever hath deterred them from drawing nigh unto Thy most exalted horizon and turning toward the lights of Thy countenance.  BH00027

O Lord! These Persian friends followed the path of righteousness, sought after divine worship, and engaged in loving fellowship. They were renowned by Thy name and known for following Thy Faith. Now they have spread their wings and hastened to Thy realm. In the material world they sowed seeds and watered them with the water of divine guidance, that they might gather a harvest in Thy world and illumine their countenance with the light of forgiveness. Thou art kind and Thy bounty is endless. O Forgiver! Grant forgiveness. O Kind One! Bestow pardon and forgiveness. Thou art the Bestower, the Forgiver, the Resplendent, the Luminous.  AB07741

O Lord! O Forgiver! Bountifulness and loving-kindness befit the threshold of the Divine Lordship, and radiance befits the servants of the luminous Court, and forgiveness befits the bondsmen of the Divine Threshold, and the solace of the helpless ever praises that celestial Beloved. O Lord! Isfandiyar has hastened to Thy court and found his way to Thy threshold. Show forth loving-kindness, bestow gladness, be forgiving. Though sins be countless, yet Thou art the Forgiver, and though ignorance be endless, yet Thou art the Teacher. Therefore, teach Thy servants that which leads to forgiveness, and forgive them. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind One.  AB08381

O God, my Worshipped One, my Adored One! I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and to Thy ancient and recent bounties. Thou art the Generous One Who hath caused the rain-clouds of Thy mercy to shower upon the high and the lowly alike, and the splendors of the Sun of Thy grace to shine upon both the obedient and the rebellious. O Merciful One, before Whose gate the essence of mercy boweth down, and around Whose Cause the reality of bounty circleth! I beseech Thee and seek Thy ancient grace and seek Thy recent generosity, that Thou mayest have mercy upon the manifestations of existence and deprive them not of the outpourings of Thy days.  BH00868

O God, O Generous One, O Merciful One, O Forgiving One! The assaults of the polytheists have scattered the strongholds of the monotheists to the winds, and from the bullets of the deniers the edifice of remembrance and knowledge has been shaken, and the hearts of those near unto Thee and the sincere ones are trembling and agitated. Although, O All-Knowing God, the deeds of this people and their actions have, after glory, brought abasement, and after power have revealed weakness, yet we beseech of Thee Thy ancient grace and we entreat Thee: look not upon our deeds and actions, for they were not and are not worthy of Thy glance. Look upon Thine own mercy and bounty.   BH00667

My God, my God! Unto Thee be praise and glory, and unto Thee be thanks and splendor, for having guided me to Thy straight path and Thy mighty announcement. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and the pearls of the sea of Thy knowledge, that Thou write down for me from Thy Most Exalted Pen what Thou hast written for Thy chosen servants. O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy handmaiden. I acknowledge my grievous sins and great transgressions before the Dayspring of Thy generosity and the Dawning-Place of Thy bounty and the Manifestation of Thy mercy. I beseech Thee to make me sanctified from all that Thou lovest not and approvest not.   BH04718

O my God, my Purpose, my Adored One, the All-Bountiful, the All-Merciful! In all things are visible the signs of Thy grace and manifest the tokens of Thy generosity. Have mercy and guide the seekers to their Quest and lead those who aim at their Goal. Though Thy servants are heedless, yet they are weak; though they are remote, yet they are hopeful. The veils of idle fancies have hindered them and the shrouds of vain imaginings have debarred them from drawing nigh. O Generous One! Behold them with the eye of Thy bounty and act in a manner befitting Thy grace. Deprive not these bare bones of Thy wondrous fresh spirit, and leave not this handful of dust bereft of Thy holy habitation.  BH00022

My God, my God! We are servants who have taken refuge at Thy most exalted threshold and sought shelter in Thy greatest gift. Therefore protect Thy servants in the shelter of Thy protection, and rain down upon us the downpours of Thy mercy, and cause us to enter the shelter of Thy care. We are weak servants, and Thou art the Glorious, the Generous to all creation. It behooveth Thy great favor to forgive every sinful servant. Our Lord! Take us not to task for our deeds, and punish us not with Thy wrath on the Day when the righteous and the wicked shall stand at the place of reckoning before the Mighty, the Compelling. Our Lord! We are sinners and Thou art the Pardoner, the Forgiving. Transform our evil deeds into good deeds and protect us from the evil of our souls, for they indeed command to evil, and we have no strength or power except through Thy confirmation, O our Lord, the Forgiving!  AB04267

My God, my God! Forgive Thy servant, for Thou art verily the Forgiver of sins. My God, my God! Ordain for me that which is best for me, for Thou art verily the Trustworthy Ordainer. My God, my God! Aid me to serve Thee, for Thou art verily the Succorer of the worlds. My God, my God! Thou seest my transgressions; purify me from them, for Thou art verily the All-Powerful. My God, my God! Expiate my misdeeds, for Thou art verily the Bountiful, the Generous. O my Lord! Help me to act in accordance with that which Thou hast revealed, and enable me to fulfill that which Thou hast commanded me to do, for Thou art verily the Ancient Commander.  BH03754
may the forgiving Lord immerse the parents of that grateful servant in the ocean of forgiveness and confirm them in achieving the desires of their hearts and souls.  AB12828
 
