
My Lord and my Hope! Aid Your servant, the teacher, with the glad tidings of forgiveness and cause him to enter the midst of Paradise. Verily You are the Generous, the Merciful.   AB03552

My God, my God! These are Thy trusted servants and Thy stranger bondsmen who have left their homes and taken refuge in these regions...Assist them all in what Thou lovest and art pleased with  AB01327


"O God! O thou Attracted of the hearts...who is firm in the Ancient Covenant, fleeing from the people of darkness...who hath left his native abode...hastened to strange and unknown kingdoms..."   AB00930


O my Lord! As Thou hast confirmed him to press his face against that pure earth and illumine his radiant brow with the lights shining from that brilliant spot, assist him to return to Thy lands and regions bearing the garment of Joseph of Thy guidance, that a sweet, perfumed and holy fragrance might spread through those parts and regions.   AB11844

O my God, my Beloved! Thou art witness and well aware that this evanescent servant is occupied with Thy remembrance and that of Thy loved ones throughout the nights and days, and with utmost lowliness and supplication beseecheth Thee to confirm those souls who are enkindled with the fire of Thy love and are engaged in Thy service under all conditions.   BH00291

O GOD! O GOD! This is the attracted servant of Thy Bounty of Abha; ... He has travelled toward the West, leaving behind his sweet country, and has accepted hardships in Thy Path ... He has forsaken rest and composure, tranquility and peacefulness, serenity and calmness, and has journeyed to that distant clime - - a land which is not touched by the feet of his fathers and ancestors - - in order to diffuse Thy Fragrances, upraise Thy Flags, spread Thy Words and elucidate Thy Proofs.  AB02629

O God, my God! This is Your servant, attracted to Your Most Glorious Beauty, his heart aflame with the fire of Your love amidst the concourse, his tears flowing in remembrance of You in the dark of night, his patience exhausted for love of Your Most Glorious Beauty, his face radiant with Your greatest mercy, his breast expanded by the verses of Your oneness among the people, expatriated in the West having left the sweetest homeland, bearing hardship in Your path, O my Most Exalted Lord!  AB01164

Confirm, moreover, Thy loved ones, those who, leaving their homelands, their families and their children, have, for the love of Thy Beauty, traveled to foreign countries to diffuse Thy fragrances and promulgate Thy teachings. Be Thou their companion in their loneliness, their helper in a strange land, the remover of their sorrows, their comforter in calamity. Be Thou a refreshing draught for their thirst, a healing medicine for their ills and a balm for the burning ardor of their hearts.   AB00032

Give thanks to God, your Lord, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate, for having enabled you to travel through lands and be a stranger far from home, proclaiming the rising of the Sun of Truth in those regions and exalting the Word of God with proofs and clear evidences  AB02262


O Lord, Lord! They have left their homelands, forgotten their nests, bid farewell to their kin, expended their souls, sacrificed their comfort and joy, shunned their happiness and delight, hastened to distant lands, and rushed to far-off regions - all for love of Thy Beauty, seeking to spread Thy traces, yearning to exalt Thy Word, and longing for the appearance of brilliant rays from the Kingdom of Thy mercy.  AB05956

