


My God, my God! Thou seest Thy servant who was named Muhammad   BH06651

Prayer specifically for Imam 'Ali ibn al-Husayn, the fourth Imam   BB00453

This entire tablet is a prayer for members of the Tehran Assembly   AB02635

This entire text is a prayer by 'Abdu'l-Baha for Mirza Abu'l-Fadl   AB12141

In all places of prayer he remembered you and offered supplications.  AB09568

We beseech God to aid him and thee to serve Him under all conditions.   BH05874

My God, my God! These are Thy pious servants and Thy pure bondsmen...   AB05503

O Mirza Nabil who preceded [the letter] Ba', upon him be the Glory of God!   BH10060

"I beseech God that you may ever be attached to his love and faithfulness"   AB07282

O Muhammad-'Ali, upon whom be the Glory of God! He is the Most Great Proof!   BH07035

O Ali-Rida Khan - upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God - consider...   AB07087

O Thou God, the Mehreban! Suffer Thy Mehreban to become the Cries of Heaven!  AB11295

Prayer for Musa ibn Ja'far, asking God to bless and bestow bounties upon him   BB00451

Convey my greetings and affection to your respected father, mother and sister  AB09282

O ye two celestial souls! Turn to the divine Kingdom and recite this prayer...  AB06769

"We beseech God to assist thee in all conditions and draw thee nigh unto Him."   BH06856

We ought to pray for Miss X, that she may become just as God wishes her to be.   ABU2511

This entire tablet is a prayer for someone to be made "a remembrance" of Vahid   AB04624

I supplicate at the Threshold of Oneness for forgiveness of sins for your parents   AB05137

We beseech God that He may cause him to return unto thee in humility and repentance.  BH07968

May his honor Ziya, upon him be Baha, attain to that which is beloved and pleasing.   BH11559

"Prayer for Mr. & Mrs Edwin Mattoon unto them be the Glory of God the Most Glorious"  AB04947

and a prayer has been written for Jinab-i-Mirza and is being sent within this letter.  AB06623

I offer prayers for you at the Divine Threshold and beseech boundless help and grace   AB06197

I ask God that thou, thy wife and thy friends may draw nigh unto the Spiritual Beauty.  AB08875

I hope that thy prayer will be answered and thou wilt attain thy heart's utmost desire  AB09152

In all conditions he remembered his relatives and performed pilgrimage on their behalf  AB07211

O Mir Abu'l-Qasim, upon him be the glory of God - He is the Hearer, He is the Answerer   BH06251

O my God, my God! These are Thy servants who are attracted to the Kingdom of Beauty...   AB06011

Make mention of My handmaiden from before Me, whom We named 'Awfih in Our ancient Kingdom  BH02834

"We have heard thy call at this time and have answered thee with this perspicuous Tablet."  BH05655

immediately I make supplication for new confirmations for you and beseech endless favors.   AB06612

I pray for them and beseech eternal bounties for them from the Kingdom of the All-Merciful   AB04482

day and night offers prayers on your behalf and seeks forgiveness from the Lord of Creation  AB09559

We beseech God to ordain for him a great reward and bestow upon him unparalleled bounties.   AB07198

Be the heart's companion to Kudarz-i-Mihrban and bestow upon him the effulgence of Thy bounty  AB09907

night and day he offers prayers on your behalf and seeks forgiveness from the Lord of Creation  AB09559

Prayer for Siyyid Hashim, upon him be the Glory of God [entire prayer is for this individual]   AB07079

O Lord! Grant these two servants of Thy threshold, Baqir and Ishaq, shelter in Thy protection   AB12064

ask God that you may be assisted in rendering services to the loved ones of God in all respects  AB07622

This entire prayer is for a specific individual who has shown obedience and undertaken migration   BH09918

O my God, my God! Thou seest me and hearest my cry and the yearning of my heart. [entire prayer]   BH08140

I likewise pray for all the kindred of His Holiness Salman and beseech divine favors for you all.  AB10654

At all times we are occupied at the Most Luminous Threshold with spiritual prayers on your behalf  AB03724

Through the grace of the Lord of the Covenant, I hope that you will be successful in all matters   AB05554

Bestow Thou a refuge and protection to this homeless and shelterless servant of Thine, Rostam Iran  AB11392

In this blessed Spot, he always remembered you and made you happy with his prayers for your welfare  AB10356

seeking divine confirmation for the spiritual friends and heavenly gifts for the dear ones of Semnan  AB02253

And I pray for you that divine confirmations and heavenly assistance may be your companion and aid.   AB02371

O Thou Kind Almighty, confirm Thou this servant of Thine, Mr. Fraser, in the service of Thy Kingdom.  AB11313

O Lord! Grant that this dearly-loved maidservant of Thine may proclaim the servitude of Abdu'l-Baha.   AB11514

O 'Ali! We have heard thy call and thy name, and We have answered thee through this perspicuous Book.   BH11172

O Lord! Assist those who prostrate themselves to raise up the foundations of this praiseworthy edifice  AB10254

At every moment I remember thee, turn in prayer to the divine Kingdom, and ask boundless aid for thee.  AB06903

Prayer for Jinab-i-Aqa Yadu'llah, 'Ali-Muhammad, Ustad Aqa-Jan, and others to serve the Tarbiyat School  AB12445

On my behalf, read a visitation prayer at the Holy Threshold with the utmost supplication and entreaty.   AB04191

Supplications and entreaties are constantly being offered at the Threshold of the One for your success.   AB11999

We beseech God the Exalted to grant them success and ordain for them the good of this world and the next.  BH11228

We beseech God to send down upon her at all times a blessing from His presence and a mercy from His side.   BH06849

O Mashhadi Husayn, upon him be the glory of God! ... Thou art, in truth, the Almighty, the All-Powerful."   BH05133

For your kind spouse Ahmad-Quli Khan I seek endless bounties and desire him to be honored in both worlds.   AB05250

In the Holy Shrine she beseeched divine favors on your behalf, and I hope that her prayer will be answered  AB09178

I beseech Thee... to assist Thy handmaiden and this leaf among Thy leaves to turn toward Thee at all times   BH09318

I pray in your behalf, asking assistance and favor for you. I hope that ye may become confirmed and helped   AB07406

a detailed prayer was offered at the Threshold of Oneness seeking forgiveness and elevation of his station   AB11688

O Lord! Be the friend and helper of the true friends... [entire text is a prayer for specific individuals]   AB12178

O Lord! Teach these grateful birds of the garden of guidance the melody of the Psalms of David's family...   AB00310

O Afnan of the Divine Lote-Tree, his honor Aqa Mirza 'Ali, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!   AB02638

O single Lord! Keep that friend protected from strangers, and make him the recipient of all manner of favors  AB08805

O 'Ali-Akbar! This Wronged One hath made mention of thee at the Most Great Horizon, and continueth to do so.   BH08569

O Lord! Assist him in that which You love and are pleased with, and make easy for him that which he desires.   AB07078

O Thou incomparable Lord! Keep that friend safe from strangers, and make him the recipient of manifold favors.  AB08805

I shall pray to God that He may assist George to seek divine good-pleasure and pursue the path of the Kingdom.  AB11140

We beseech God to aid thee and ordain for thee from the Supreme Pen the good of the hereafter and of this world  BH02657

I offered prayers to the Divine Kingdom and sought forgiveness of sins for Mrs. Hannen's mother and Miss Noblack  AB02529

tell him that I supplicate and implore for you in the Abha Kingdom and seek assistance, bounty and magnanimity.   AB11941

I have not forgotten you and will not forget you, and I constantly beseech divine grace for assistance and favor.  AB08824

We make mention of thy two sons and beseech God to ordain for them the good of this world and of the world to come   BH05422

We beseech God to ordain for them what He hath ordained for His loved ones. Verily He is the Hearer, the Answerer.   BH02067

Prayer for Mr. Gholamali, Mr. Shoghi and his respected mother, may the Glory of God the Most Glorious be upon them   AB06753

Through Hormazdyar Khodabakhsh, seeking forgiveness for Rustami Mehraban and Mehraban Sad and Hormazdyar Khodabakhsh  AB07057

worship and petition that heavenly power may be your helper and supporter and give joy to the long-standing friends   AB07300

We beseech God to ordain for you both that which will bring solace to your eyes and to the eyes of those who love you   BH03821

night and day invoking and beseeching the Kingdom of God that He may make thee a sign of His mercy among His creatures  AB06539

We have remembered those who are there in a measure that none can reckon save God, the All-Numbering, the All-Knowing.   BH00840

O Lord! Aid her to achieve that which she desireth, be well-pleased with her, and assist her to stand firm in Thy love.  AB10802

I beseech God that this pilgrimage may result in bestowals and this circumambulation may cause the attainment of favors   AB11910

And We make mention of all My loved ones and give them glad tidings of the mercy of God, the Lord of the seen and unseen.  BH01669

O my Kind Lord and the Desire of my heart and soul! Bestow Thy grace upon Thy loved ones and grant a gift to Thy friends.   AB07253

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to assist His Cause through him. Verily He is the Almighty, the Ancient of Days.   BH07614

I beseech Thee to make him a standard of Thy Name amidst Thy creation and a banner of Thy remembrance amongst Thy servants.   BH07122

In my moments of leisure at midnight when I engage in prayer, I will supplicate divine assistance and bounty on their behalf  AB00754

O my God! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy oneness and the Dominion of Thy singleness that Thou wouldst...confirm Thy servant...  AB12260

Thy mention was made at the Divine Throne, and thus hast thou been blessed with the remembrance of the Beloved of the worlds.  BH08293

O God of Names! Ordain for Thy loved ones in Thy Kingdom that which befitteth Thy generosity, O Creator of earth and heaven!   BH07773

Therefore, know his worth, for in all circumstances he offered prayers for your good and sought God's endless favors for you.  AB06980

Prayer for forgiveness for Professor Cheyne and Mr. Daniel Jenkins...Grant these two free birds flight to the highest heaven   AB11885

The Glory be upon you and upon those with you and upon those who have said "We believe in God, the Single, the All-Informed."   BH11056

Make that liberated servant, the destitute but melody-filled Husayn, and make this helpless servant his partner and companion.  AB07055

may supplicate unto Thee on my behalf, and Thou wouldst graciously answer their prayers as a token of Thy grace and Thy favour   BB00382

Among them is this servant whom Thou named the Spiritual Youth and the All-Merciful Youth, and reared in the cradle of guidance  AB00404

I turn toward the Abha Kingdom and seek assistance and bounty for you. I ask for heavenly confirmation and seek Baha'i success.  AB09899

From the day that I left America I have ever supplicated God on thy behalf, begging for thee infinite protection and assurance   AB04407

O God! O Thou who hast caused every lofty tree to grow as the origin of a family with branches extending to sublime heights...   AB00977

O Mirza 'Ali-Akbar Hakim, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious...Verily Thou art the [Forbearing], the All-Bountiful.  AB09039

"You are always in my thoughts and I pray for you, that the aid and grace of His Holiness the One may encompass your condition."  AB11917

We have made mention of those who have believed in that land and have answered those whose petitions were presented at this Spot   BH02988

The glory be upon him and upon you and upon his son and upon those who have believed in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH03779

May my Lord preserve and protect you, may His glance of favor encompass you, may He make you the manifestations of abundant grace   AB11983

O Lord! Assist the Afnan of Thy Tree of Mercifulness to serve at Thy Sacred Threshold. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   AB05044

From the grace and favor of the Kind Lord, we beseech that like Shapur they may be sovereign over the realms of divine knowledge.   AB11507

Supplications were made with utmost humility at the threshold of the One seeking forgiveness for his noble son, Aqa Muhammad-'Ali.  AB07998

We have desired to make mention of thy daughter who was named Khadijih, upon the pathway of thy Lord, the Forgiving, the Generous.   BH03172

O maid-servant of God! Do beseech and pray constantly for 'Abdu'l-Baha and beg the confirmation and assistance of God in his behalf  AB10288

O Thou Pure God! Gaze providently at the beloved ones and the dear maid-servants in Chicago. Confer upon them Thy bounty and grace.  AB02478

Now I have turned to the Threshold of the All-Merciful Lord and sought victory and grace for the maidservants of the All-Merciful.   AB01937

We pray that the divine confirmations will assist His Honor Haji Husayn-'Ali in such a way that all souls will be stirred and moved  AB11503

O my Lord and my Aim! These are servants who have cast off restraint in Thy love... assist them in every good among all creatures.   AB11631

O thou who art attracted by the fragrances of the Love of God! I pray for thee and seek help and assistance from the favors of God.  AB09523

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to make thee mighty amongst His servants and eloquent in His praise throughout His lands.  BH10720

Ordain for him every good in the Most Glorious Kingdom, mention him in the Supreme Concourse, and grant him a true and lofty tongue.  AB02700

This is Thy servant who circumambulated the sanctuary of Thy Beauty, visited the House of Thy Majesty and the Ka'bah of Thy Being...   BH03677

Prayer for one named Jamshid who has turned to God and suffered tribulations in His path, asking for divine blessings and protection   BH03653

O Lord! Ordain for him and for Thy servants who have been deprived of meeting Thee the reward of those who have attained Thy presence   BH08842

O Lord! Make the Spiritual Assembly of Philadelphia the manifestation of divine confirmations and the dawning-place of merciful lights  AB06889

For some time we stayed at the foot of Mount Carmel at the place of Elias, and day and night we remembered you and sought confirmation.  AB01392

We beseech God to send down upon her and upon them that which He hath ordained, for verily He is the All-Powerful to do what He willeth.  BH06428

I beseech Thee...to ordain for Thy Afnan and one of Thy leaves the reward of every leaf that hath held fast to the Tree of Thy utterance   BH09847

I will offer supplications and entreaties at the Divine Threshold on their behalf and seek boundless assistance, protection and shelter.   AB02569

I beseech the True One, exalted be His glory, to sanctify the orators of the world and adorn them with the ornament of knowledge and deeds.  BH01300

O Lord, make him a fire of guidance, kindled by the winds of faithfulness, and a lamp of bounty, lit and shining in the glass of eternity.   AB07081

Verily We make mention of his mother and beseech God to send down upon her in all times a light from His presence and a mercy from His side.  BH05187

Upon reading it, my heart was moved involuntarily and turned toward the Abha Kingdom, beseeching boundless assistance and favors for you both  AB08073

I beseech Thee, O my God...to ordain for Thy Afnan that which shall gladden his eyes and the eyes of Thy sincere ones and them that love Thee   BH07115

I pray for both of them, that in this noteworthy art may they become famous, that they may become accomplished masters in it, rare in quality.  ABU1962

O Shiraz, O Afnans of the Blessed Tree, Jenab-i-Aqa Mirza Bozorg and Jenab-i-Aqa Mirza Habibullah, upon them be the Most Glorious Glory of God!  AB07075

I pray for all and supplicate at the Sacred Threshold that He may ever include all within divine favors and under the glance of heavenly grace   AB04967

This is Thy servant whom Thou hast brought forth from the loins of one of Thy loved ones and named Jalal (Glory) in the kingdom of Thy names...   BH09856

I have beseeched forgiveness from the Lord of Creation for your mother and asked for her comfort and ease. I hope this prayer will be accepted.   AB07507

And on my behalf convey loving greetings to Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid 'Ali Yazdi and tell him I hope that you will be assisted in service to the Cause.  AB07251

Your distinguished maidservant Dolat, daughter of Khosrow...Firuz Khodadad...Salamat Hormazdyar...Gohar Khodadad...Firuzeh, daughter of Salamat   AB05588

and seek assistance and bounty from the spirituality of His Holiness Muhammad Mustafa the Messenger of God (peace be upon him), and pray for you   AB06763

O Lord! Ordain for them every good and protect them from every harm. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Bestower, the Merciful, the Compassionate.   AB06905

O God of all names and Ruler of earth and heaven! Aid me to be steadfast in Thy love and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book...   BH04590

Convey my greetings to thy beloved son Albert. I beseech God to make him a lamp diffusing brilliant lights in the gatherings of the loved ones of God  AB02456

say that we are always engaged in prayer for you, that God may confirm and assist you to be successful in great matters in service to that just king   AB05215

In the time of invocation to God, I remember thee and supplicate and entreat Him to confirm thee and assist thee in the service of His Holy vineyard.   AB04071

Then make mention from Us to all who are in thy household, both female and male, that they may all give thanks unto their Lord, the Mighty, the Loving.  BH04641

We beseech God to assist them with the hosts of steadfastness and draw them nigh unto Him. Verily He is the All-Hearing, the One Who answereth prayers.  BH03412

O Lord! O Forgiver! Make this assured handmaiden of Yours, along with her children and descendants, firm and steadfast in Your Covenant and Testament.   AB05108

Fervent supplications were offered at the threshold of the Beautiful Lord on behalf of your noble son, that he may be assisted with mighty confirmation.  AB09327

I am yearning with heart and soul for Jinab Aqa Mirza Karim Hakim, and I seek eternal, everlasting bounty for him and confirmations from the Abha Kingdom  AB01517

O my God, my Lord, the Generous, and my Master, the Great! These two are servants, prostrating, submissive, humble before the threshold of Thy Oneness...   AB05010

O my God, my God! Aid this servant in what Thou lovest and approvest. Thou guidest whom Thou willest to the center of lights in the kingdom of mysteries.   AB02084

I carried a water jug on your behalf and, with your intention, offered it as a vessel for the heavenly fountain. May God accept it with gracious acceptance  AB07566

I have the utmost attachment to all the people of Nur, and I pray for heavenly confirmation, divine success, eternal glory and everlasting bounty for them   AB03714

Aid, then, O my God, him who hath loved Thee and hath sought Thy face...Then grant him, through Thy grace and bounty, the good of this world and of the next.  BH08837

With all humility and contrition, I supplicate to the Kingdom of the Mighty, the All-Compelling, with lowered wing, beseeching success and prosperity for you  AB10176

This is Your servant and the son of Your servant...Honor his countenance among the faces of Your servants and illumine his brow with the lights of Your signs  AB10329

Earnest supplications were offered at the threshold of the Gracious Lord on behalf of your illustrious son, that he may be assisted with mighty confirmation.  AB09327

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee with my tongue and implore Thee with my heart to grant this servant of Thine an abundant share of inner truths and meanings.  AB08488

O my God! These are the five leaves from the tree of Thy mercy and the five handmaidens at the sacred threshold of Thy oneness...Verily, Thou art the Chooser!  AB07859

O Lord! Grant Muhammad-Hasan, who is enamored of Thy beauty, shelter in the precincts of Thy great mercy... and make him deserving of Thy aid and protection.   AB05112

O handmaiden of God! Your letter was received and supplications were offered at the divine threshold that infinite favors may encompass you and your relatives.  AB12759

Bless this family and grant it happiness in both this world and the world to come. Confirm this distinguished person in the greatest service to the human world  AB11035

O my God, my God! These are servants whom Thou hast chosen for the service of Thy Cause, the exaltation of Thy Word, and the diffusion of Thy holy fragrances.   AB06560

I pray for you, that divine confirmations may assist you and that you may study and be educated in such a way as to become the cause of joy to Aqa Mirza Ahmad.  AB04748

Since the day of my departure from Budapest I have been always remembering you and have begged from his holiness Baha'u'llah protection and providence for you   AB05477

I offer utmost supplication to the Glorious Lord that relief may come...I will offer humble entreaty for them at the Divine Threshold and seek infinite favors   AB02113

In Alexandria, with the utmost lowliness and need, I supplicate and implore at the Sacred Threshold and beseech for you the hidden favors of the Blessed Beauty.  AB08938

O kind Lord! Grant this family an eternal foundation and an everlasting establishment and make them blessed. Thou art the Bestower, the Giver, and the Kind One.  AB09035

this prayer was offered with utmost humility and supplication, and surely signs of its acceptance in the Abha Kingdom have appeared and will continue to appear.  AB04711

I supplicated to God in thy behalf that thou mayest become a strong growing tree, protected and guarded from the winds of tests and attain to heavenly guidance.  AB05468

I think always of him and supplicate heavenly confirmation for him. I hope that he will, day by day, progress and attain to that which is his greatest longing.   AB04456

'Abdu'l-Baha constantly implores and beseeches at the Divine Threshold that He may rid His friends of all concerns, and make them kind to both stranger and kin   AB03386

O kind Lord! Grant this household an eternal foundation and an everlasting establishment and make it blessed. Thou art the Bestower, the Giver, and the Kind One.  AB09035

have offered prayers at the Divine Threshold, and have also sought aid and bounty for that trusted, established and zealous one in service to the Forgiving Lord   AB03778

I have turned toward the center of Thy mercy and the threshold of Thy lordship, Thy sacred precincts that are sanctified from the imaginings of Thy creatures...   AB03900

O handmaiden of God, faithful leaf, afflicted and suppliant Fatimah Begum...This is one of Thy handmaidens and a leaf from the leaves of the Tree of Thy oneness.  AB06009

O Lord, protect her grandchild in the cave of Your protection and shelter, and guard the apple of her eye beneath the shadow of Your preservation and safekeeping   AB07424

O Lord! Judge concerning one who has shown reverence and withdrawn and retired without Thy good-pleasure, hoping for Thy protection and aid and Thy gracious decree.  AB12771

Therefore, this servant, acting on thy behalf, hath laid his face and hair in the dust at those two Thresholds, and in utmost supplication beseecheth divine favors.  AB07648

it was decided that this servant would bow his head at the Sacred Threshold and supplicate and pray on your behalf as your deputy, and recite the Visitation Prayer   AB03751

O my God, my God! These are servants who have forsaken all attachment and clung to the hem of the robe of Thy grandeur... Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   AB00736

"We beseech God to preserve thee and ordain for thee that which profiteth thee. We beseech God to send down upon him at all times mercy and grace from His presence."  BH01792

O Haydar! The Wronged One hath made mention of thee from His Most Great Prison with a remembrance from which hath flowed the Water of Life for all contingent beings.   BH10075

I beg of God that all the members of thy family may be blessed and become conducive to the propagation of the Cause of God and the diffusion of the Fragrances of God.  AB07841

O my Lord! Ordain for him and for those who have sought Thee that which befitteth Thy glory. Then write down for them the good of this world and of the world to come.   BH09558

O my Lord! I beseech Thee... to assist this servant of Thine who hath clung to the hem of Thy robe and held fast to the fringes of the veil of the gate of Thy grandeur  AB12658

He bowed his head at the Sacred Threshold and, with utmost humility and supplication, beseeched the Self-Sufficient Lord for protection and assistance for all of you.   AB07212

O Lord! Forgive Thy servant Qasim who has ascended to the kingdom of Thy sanctification and the heaven of Thy oneness, and ordain for him every good through Thy grace.   AB01578

O my God, my Lord and my Master! Thou knowest well the state of Thy loved ones who have tasted the sweetness of Thy love and have been immersed in the oceans of Thy mercy  AB10733

I supplicated and implored at the Threshold of the Beauty of Abha, beseeching pardon, forgiveness and bounty of the Merciful for thee, thy friends and even thine enemies.  AB08892

I will pray to God that you may become members of the heavenly assembly and pillars of the celestial parliament, for this station is eternal and has no end or separation.  AB04020

We beseech God to confirm thee even as He confirmed thy father, and through you both to open the doors of hearts. Verily He is the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.  BH08171

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me in the prison of 'Akka and for having sent down unto me that which did solace the eyes of Thy chosen servants   BH03059

O Pen! Make mention of him who hath been named Muhammad... Blessed is he who maketh mention of him and reciteth what We have revealed for him in this praiseworthy station.   BH08065

We make mention at this moment of him who was named Siyyid 'Ali, that the breezes of My revelation may attract him and draw him nigh unto My glorious and wondrous Kingdom.   BH00573

Assuredly this prayer will be answered. I too pray that the Lord God may make you the manifestation of favors, grant you endless glory and bestow upon you everlasting life   AB04905

I beseech God to protect him on the path and bring him to the sacred precincts of the Glorious Sanctuary...I ask God to gladden the hearts of the believers through His grace  BB00403

My God, my God! This is an exalted branch and a tender twig that hath been planted in the garden of Thy mercy and hath grown and flourished in the paradise of Thy oneness...  AB12450

'Abdu'l-Baha, with utmost supplication and imploring, beseecheth this bounty for thee from the Court of Oneness, and longeth to be thy partner and associate in this service.  AB09265

O Lord! Aid them to attain Your good-pleasure and send down upon them Your bounties and bestowals. Single them out for the gifts of the traces of Your attributes and names.   AB02823

Make this dear servant dear to Thee and bestow upon him boundless culture and discrimination. Fill his cup to overflowing with the wine of Thy love and make him enthusiastic.  AB10713

This is one of Your maidservants and a leaf from the leaves of Your tree of mercy...My Lord! Aid her in the desert of separation from You and the intensity of her deprivation  AB03545

O Lord! Send down upon Thy loved ones that which befits Thy bounty and favor, and assist them in Thy remembrance and praise and in what Thou hast revealed in Thy mighty Book.   BH02086

O Lord! Confirm him with blessings from heaven... Grant him enjoyment in this world in all affairs and conditions, and ordain for him an exalted station in the world to come.   AB02003

O Lord! Make him a sign of Thy remembrance, a horizon of Thy love, and a lamp unto Thy loved ones. Make him steadfast in Thy Cause, enkindled with the fire of Thy Manifestation  AB12604

"Therefore, one day in the Holy Shrine, with utmost supplication, prayers were offered for all. Indeed, this visitation was the greatest gift and the most magnificent present."  AB11845

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to make him one who drinks from the cup of certitude at all times and to ordain for him that which will exalt him among the religions   BH04194

I supplicate and implore at the Threshold of the All-Bountiful Lord on behalf of the friends and handmaidens of the All-Merciful, and I beseech boundless help and infinite grace  AB12471

O Knower of mysteries! Make each of the Persians a soaring bird, melodious and sweet-voiced. Grant them heavenly shahnaz and make them royal falcons on the arm of the sovereign   AB05182

I hope that Khurasan may become brilliant and radiant, and through the efforts of the friends become an illumined niche in the East. This is not difficult for God to accomplish.  AB08012

The glory be upon thee and upon thy wife who hath believed in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. Convey my greetings unto her and gladden her with My wondrous remembrance.   BH08542

I beseech Thee...to send down from the heaven of Thy grace upon him who hath turned unto Thee that which will aid him in all the worlds of Thy worlds and draw him nigh unto Thee   BH05412

We beseech God, glorified be His majesty, on behalf of each one, for blessing and bounty and health and protection and well-being and recognition and certitude and steadfastness.  BH04579

O Ali Beg, upon him be the Glory of God! [...] We have remembered thee with verses that cannot be equaled by the treasures of the earth nor by what the kings and rulers possess.   BH02304

The entire prayer consists of supplications for souls associated with each letter: "that Thou assist every soul with [letter] who believeth in Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest"   BB00236

I beseech Thee not to deprive them of Thy tender mercies and favours, and to make them abide near Thy mercy in this world and the next. Verily, Thou art powerful over all things.   BH01403

In the Holy Shrine - may my spirit be sacrificed for its sacred dust - we became occupied with remembering and praying for you, and beseeched divine favor for spiritual assistance  AB05193

Every morning I rise from my bed thinking of you, and every evening I raise a melody of supplication and entreaty to the Abha Kingdom, beseeching confirmation and success for you.  AB03124

O Lord! Grant them success in every good deed among the chosen ones, and let Thy grace and favor encompass even the strangers. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Choosing.  AB08977

I will beseech God that it may be facilitated, so that you may become an intermediary stringing together the pearls among the friends, and shine forth with the light of God's favor  AB08730

During his stay at the Sacred Threshold, he continually remembered you and sought assistance and bounty, and surely these prayers will be answered and accepted at the Divine Court.  AB11923

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee...to assist Thy servant Rida in that which Thou lovest and approvest...Ordain for him what Thou hast ordained for Thy sincere servants.   BH10576

With utmost supplication I raise my hands in prayer to the Court of the Ancient Living One, and seek from His Holiness the Generous Lord assistance and bounty for those dear friends  AB02724

The servant beseecheth his Lord to ordain for him the good of the hereafter and of this world. Verily He is the Lord of all beings and the One with power over whatsoever He willeth.   BH02819

'Abdu'l-Baha, with utmost love and devotion, prays for those friends in the Abha Kingdom, and begs for assistance and bounty, and makes supplication and imploration with restlessness  AB04121

O Lord of the Covenant! These are servants from among the people of unity who have been illumined by the dawning light...Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.   AB11654

Convey, on my behalf, the utmost longing to the believers of Montreal. I remember them always and seek confirmation and assistance from the bounty of the Holy Spirit on their behalf.  AB03930

We remember Nasir and Abbas and pray for their success and support from the presence of the Helper, the Wise. We send greetings upon him and upon Abdul-Karim and upon those with you.   BH01421

And encompass all his kindred with the glances of Thine eyes of grace, in honor of him, through Thy bounty, O Thou Lord of all beings and Goal of all who dwell on earth and in heaven.  AB00559

O my God! My God! Verily Thy servant, the Oft-Turning, the Forbearing, calleth upon Thee with utmost humility and supplication... Therefore ordain Thou for him every good in existence   AB12356

Day and night do I supplicate God in their behalf, beg lordly confirmations for them and ask heavenly assistance:- so that that city may become the envy of all the cities of the world.  AB01158

O Lord! Send Thy blessings upon him and upon those who are with him and who love him for Thy sake. There is no God but Thee, the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing, the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH03432

O Pure Lord! Make this handmaiden dear to Thee and fill her cup to overflowing with the wine of Thy love. Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, and Thou art the Bestower, the All-Merciful.  AB10043

The blessed leaf, Khalih Khanum, mentions thee at all times in the gathering of the Merciful, remembers thee in the meetings of fellowship, and offers prayers for thee in the Holy Shrine  AB12665

O Lord! Make firm her root in Thy Covenant, strengthen her trunk through Thy grace, reinforce her tree through Thy sovereignty, and rear her beneath the shade of the tree of Thy oneness.  AB10742

I beseech the favors of divine bestowal that Mr. Weirs may become attracted to the divine Kingdom and be so enkindled with the fire of the love of God that he may illuminate that region.  AB01173

Peace be upon thee and upon those with thee and upon thy son. We beseech Him, exalted be He, to grant him what he desireth through the grace of God, the Self-Sufficient, the Most Exalted.  BH10690

O Lord my God! This is a servant who is related to Your servant who was banished and exiled in Your path to the land of Sudan...make him a sign of Your beneficence, a banner of Your bounty  AB09764

"Verily God has forgiven thy father and thy mother. He is indeed the Forgiver, the Mighty, the Generous. Rejoice thou in thy Lord's favor, then render thanks unto Him at morn and eventide."  BH00680

Extended prayer for two believers: "My Lord and my hope! These two servants hastened to Yathrib and Batha...make them signs of Thy mercy and banners of Thy bounty and lamps of Thy guidance"  AB01250

I hope that Rahim will be successful in his studies at school, and I pray to God that arrangements may be made for you to be enabled to visit the Holy Threshold before returning to America.  AB09360

O My handmaiden! The face of My loving-kindness hath turned toward thee, and mentioneth unto thee that which shall be a treasure for thee in My dominions. Rejoice thou in this great bounty.   BH05947

O Thou Forgiving Lord! Shed Thy Radiance upon these servants of Thine and give unto them a melodious voice in the Rose-garden of the Most High! Make them the musicians of the Heavenly Feast.  AB10297

O Lord! Help these souls, grant them nobility, free them from every bond, protect them, comfort them, and fulfill all their hopes and desires. You are the Bestower, the Giver, the Kind One.   AB01902

O Lord! Make him a protector of the loved ones and a guardian of the chosen ones, and one who serveth at Thy holy Threshold amidst all peoples. Aid him with the hosts of the angels of heaven.  AB09711

O my God, my God! Thou knowest the intensity of my longing and my great attachment to this servant who is firm in the Covenant and who has grown through the outpouring of the cloud of bounty.  AB06003

I beseech abundant favors for him and seek the forgiveness of the All-Forgiving Lord. I implore assistance from the Court of Oneness for Jinab-i-Shamshad and pray for joy of his heart and soul  AB09291

O Muhammad-Qabl-Karim! Thou hast been mentioned by Him Who circleth around Me, soareth in Mine atmosphere, uttereth My praise, and hath acknowledged that which My chosen ones have acknowledged   BH05819

O God! O Guide of those who have gone astray to the strong path...Lord! Answer his prayer and hear his call, and ordain for the pure ones among Thy creation ascent to the highest ranks of glory  AB00850

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of what lieth with Thee, and to ordain for me and for my son and for those with me that which befitteth the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy generosity   BH06882

O My Most Exalted Pen! Make mention of him who hath been named Muhammad-Ibrahim, that the mention may draw him unto the most exalted horizon and bring him nigh unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH03760

O Husayn! Rejoice in that thy name hath flowed from My Most Exalted Pen while the Wronged One was in this remote spot... Make mention of him who was named Hadi, that he may rejoice in My mention   BH03284

O Lord! O Lord! Ordain for her every good in Thy Kingdom, look upon her with the glances of Thy merciful eye, and admit her to the eternal Paradise when she ascendeth to the kingdom of Thy unity   AB02033

I beg of Thee by Thy most excellent Names and Thy most exalted Attributes to write down for him with the pen of Thy power that which beseemeth the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy grace.   BH10291

I beseech Thee...to ordain for him who hath loved Thee and desired Thee every good thing Thou hast sent down from Thy Most Exalted Pen for the people of Baha and the companions of the Crimson Ark   BH02537

And I, on my own behalf and as a representative of yourself, circumambulate the two blessed burial places, visit the two purified tombs, and rub my face in the dust of the two illumined thresholds  AB04733

We beseech God to send down upon her at all times a blessing from His presence and a mercy from His side. Verily, He is the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful.   BH03279

I have beseeched and continue to beseech, from the Sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty--may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones--success for His Holiness 'Andalib and those related to him.  AB08196

Verily, I beg of God to bestow upon thee and thy relatives the blessing of His clemency and to assign for thee and for them everlasting glory and eternal life in the visible world and in the Kingdom  AB09125

I have offered supplications of humility and need at the divine threshold for your sister and her family, as well as for your respected husband, and have sought divine assistance and bounty for them.  AB04048

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds and Master of nations...to protect him with the hosts of the unseen and the seen, and ordain for him what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and trusted ones.   BH08835

O noble branch of the Blessed Tree! I beseech and supplicate the Most Glorious Kingdom and the Supreme Realm to make you detached from all else save God, to prepare guidance for you in your affairs...  AB05913

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! This is Thy servant whom Thou hast related unto Thyself and made him one of the twigs of the Tree of Thy singleness and one of the leaves of the Lote-Tree of Thy oneness.   BH08841

I supplicate and implore the Kingdom of God on your behalf that each one of you may be illumined like a lamp with the fire of the love of God and bestow the light of guidance upon that land and region   AB05350

Then send down, O my God, upon Thy servant al-Baqir and upon him who was named Javad, from the heaven of Thy mercy, the rains of Thy favors, and ordain for them that which will bring joy to their eyes.   BH05991

Miss Jean Masson who is writing by 'Abdu'l-Baha's command an answer to the Wilson Book, sends her love to the Master, and begs his assistance in this difficult task. 'God willing, she will be assisted.'  ABU0314

O Lord! Transform the losses of Thy loved ones into the greatest gain, then set right their affairs through Thy grace, O Thou Who art the Lord of eternity and Who art manifest through the Most Great Name.  BH00707

The text includes a prayer for the Baha'is of Qazvin: "Therefore, O my God, ordain for them what befits their station in fulfillment of Thy right: steadfastness in Thy religion and firmness in Thy Cause."  AB00647

O Kind Lord! He seeketh youth in the world of life, gladness and success in this world and the eternal world. He hopeth that Thou wilt not disappoint him, but rather favor him and make his affairs prosper.  AB11214

O Lord, my God and my Hope! This is a servant who has supplicated to the Kingdom of Thy mercifulness and the Dominion of Thy oneness, yearning for Thy good-pleasure and seeking nearness to Thy presence...   AB07180

"O Ali, upon thee be My Glory! Turn thy face toward the Most Exalted Horizon with such turning that all created things will thereby turn unto God, the Revealer of verses and the Manifestor of clear proofs."  BH04202

I supplicate and implore at the threshold of the All-Knowing God and beg for aid, grace and boundless bounty. It is certain that they will be assisted by the heavenly hosts and confirmed with divine spirit.   AB05647

O Lord! One of Your servants whom You gave to drink from Your sealed nectar...that You ordain every good for Your entrusted servant and Your imploring and enkindled slave burning with the fire of Your love.   AB00854

Mr. Aqa Shukru'llah, in the luminous shrine, remembered the loved ones and engaged in prayer, seeking the assistance of the Blessed Lord and beseeching abundant gifts and the favors of the All-Forgiving Lord.  AB12331

O Lord! Record for him the reward of one who attained Thy presence and visited Thy Beauty in Thy days. Aid him to arise with qualities, characteristics, deeds and conduct befitting Thy loved ones in Thy days.  AB01291

I beseech Thee to illumine his deeds with the light of acceptance and to make him one of those who have attained to Thy service in Thy days, and ordain for him the good of this world and of the world to come.   BH08845

O Thou kind Lord! This daughter of the Kingdom hath made a great exertion and hath written down the addresses of 'Abdu'l-Baha. O Lord! Assist her and her daughters to spread abroad the splendours of the Kingdom.  AB11357

"O 'Ali! Do not despair of God's spirit and mercy, and grieve not over anything in the days of God, the Lord of the mighty throne. Be content with what has been ordained and fix thy gaze upon the Supreme Horizon"  BH05223

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Beautiful Names, and Thy Most Exalted Example, and Thy Greatest Sign, and Thy Most High Word, to perfume the nostrils of these Thy servants with the fragrant breezes of Thy holiness...   AB04174

Abdul-Baha's hope is that those kind friends will all share and participate with Abdul-Baha in servitude at the Threshold of the All-Merciful. We are all servants at that Court and worshippers at that Threshold.   AB01740

O my God! Send down upon them from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heavens of Thy tenderness that which will purify them from all else beside Thee and cause them to be devoted solely to Thy love and good-pleasure   BH05070

"I beseech Thee, O my God, at this moment, by the radiant lights of Thy countenance and the dawning-places of the Sun of Thy oneness, that Thou send Thy blessings upon Thy Proof, son of Thy Proof, Ali ibn Musa..."  BB00435

My hope is that the prayer will be answered and boundless bounty will be attained and the confirmation of the Lord of Lords will arrive and each one will be confirmed in comprehensive utterances and decisive speech  AB04450

O peerless saplings of the rose-garden of the love of God! Praise ye God that in these divine gardens ye are trees planted by the hand of providence, and through God's infinite bounty ye have grown and flourished.   AB04627

O Lord! Make his hopes reality and transform his condition to the most excellent of conditions. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Most High, and verily Thou art the Powerful, the Generous, the Omnipotent, the Helper.  AB10962

The Glory be upon thee and upon thy brother who was mentioned before the Throne. We send Our prayers and salutations upon him. We beseech God to ordain for thee and for him what He hath ordained for His chosen ones.  BH04209

that that region might become a paradise of delight and that land might become the dawning-place of heavenly stars, and that each of the friends might become a manifestation of the favors of the Self-Subsisting Lord  AB12514

My God! Thou knowest that the two most noble Names did not seek to gather worldly goods nor acquire the ornaments of this abode of sorrows, but rather sought to dwell near Thee and spread Thy remembrance and praise.  AB05028

O my God, my God! This servant of Thine has spent all that he could in Thy path. O Lord! Send down upon him a blessing from Thy presence and assist him through Thy power and might. Verily Thou art the Generous One.   AB05414

O Lord! I beseech Thee with all humility, supplication, imploring and contrition to assist every servant who arises to serve Thy Cause, and every one enkindled with the fire of Thy love who strives to exalt Thy Word  AB00392

Write down, then, for me the good of this world and of the world to come. Then fulfill, O my God, my needs and whatsoever draweth me nigh unto Thee, O Lord of all men, Master of the Throne on high and of earth below.  BH01250

O my God! I traveled through wildernesses and crossed seas until I reached the realm of light, where I became a resident at Thy threshold and sought shelter in Thy court. O Lord! Forgive my sins and awaken my heart and soul.  AB09720

I beseech Thee to send Thy blessings upon Muhammad ibn 'Ali, Thy Proof and son of Thy Proof, with the most excellent blessings Thou hast ever sent upon any of Thy chosen ones or bestowed upon any of Thy sincere ones.   BB00449

Convey on my behalf to thy two children the utmost kindness and love. Their letters have been received but, as I have no time, separate letters cannot be written at present. Show them on my behalf the utmost kindness.   AB07527

"Shouldst thou wish to pray for 'Abdu'l-Baha turn thou, lowly and suppliant, to God's Kingdom on high and implore Him and say: 'O God, my God! Add Thou to the tribulation which 'Abdu'l-Baha sustaineth for Thy sake...'"  AB06540

We beseech God the Exalted to send down upon him and upon His loved ones there mercy from the heaven of His grace and rains from the clouds of His generosity. Verily He is powerful over all things and worthy to answer.   BH01914

Verily I pray to God to make thee and thy revered husband--under the shadow of His Greatest Name--confirmed in all conditions, aided in the service of the Cause of God with a confirmation on the part of the Merciful Lord.  AB09629

O my Lord, my God, O Light of Lights, Center of Mysteries, and Attractor of the hearts of the righteous! With a pounding heart and flowing tears I implore You and beseech You to send down every good upon Your servant...   AB02165

O my God, glorified art Thou! Thou seest that one of Thy handmaidens hath appeared before Thy throne and seeketh Thy grace and bounty. O Lord! Assist her to serve the Greater Branch and make her content and well-pleasing   BH10289

O Lord! Assist Thy servant Furugh and Bashir and Thy handmaid Jamilih to remember and praise Thee, and protect them in the shelter of Thy protection and care. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB07890

Night and day 'Abdu'l-Baha supplicates endlessly at the Sacred Threshold, the Court of the Most Glorious Beauty, beseeching assistance, protection and victory for those blessed souls, that they may succeed in all matters.   AB03323

I beseech Thee to assist Thy servant who arises in Thy service, who persists in servitude to Thee, who fasts from aught save Thy love, with confirmations from the seen and unseen realms and favors from the Praised Station   AB02157

"O Lord, illumine their faces in the Kingdom of Abha; incline their ears to the voice of commendation from the Supreme Concourse; make them great signs of thee; ordain for them the best of this world and the world to come"   AB03069

O my God, my God! Assist Your servant who is supplicating at the gate of Your oneness to hold fast to the hem of the robe of Your grandeur and to cling to the sure handle that shall never break through Your might and power.   AB07168

O Lord! These souls are descendants of the glorious Abraham and from among the most eminent of Israel. Grant them shelter, bestow Thy gifts, ordain for them benefit and profit, and vouchsafe unto them comfort and tranquility.  AB10225

O Lord! Endear this household in both worlds! Bless this home. Illumine it forever and ever. Crown the head of Mrs Whyte with the Diadem of the Everlasting Glory so that its brilliant gems may shine upon centuries and cycles.  AB09097

O God, O Guardian of earth and heaven, Supporter of the chosen ones and Guide of the intelligent ones! You assist whomever You wish to exalt Your Word among humanity and manifest Your signs among the concourse of creation...   AB11673

Aid Thou Mahdi, who hath emigrated from his homeland out of love for meeting Thee and standing before Thy gate. O Lord! Ordain for him what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book for those who are nigh unto Thee among Thy creatures.   BH08276

I, too, have turned in utmost humility and lowliness to the Kingdom of the Peerless One and have beseeched nearness to the threshold of the Abha Beauty for these pure souls, and have sought divine confirmations in both worlds.  AB12686

We beseech God, exalted be He, to send down upon him from the heaven of generosity that which befits His Most Great Name, and to show him once again His most exalted horizon, and to cause him to hear once more His sweetest call   BH03738

This is a day among the days of Thy Ridvan wherein one of Thy servants invited the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thy sovereignty, and adorned a place among the places of the prison for Thy Most Glorious Beauty.   BH08256

With utmost supplication and earnestness I implore and beseech at the divine threshold that that region may become a rose garden, and that city a spring garden, and that town may be adorned with brilliant stars like the heavens.  AB07405

We beseech God to aid them in that which He loveth and pleaseth, to strengthen them with the hosts of the seen and the unseen, and to ordain for them that which will draw them nigh unto Him. Verily, He is the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH02013

O God! Let his eyes be gladdened that his knowledge encompasseth not aught that he abhorreth. And O God! Send down upon them that love him that which befitteth the glory of Thy holy might and the splendor of Thine eternal majesty.  BB00257

O Lord! Make this faithful servant a brilliant star and a piercing meteor. Grant him shelter at Your threshold and make him aware of hidden mysteries. Make him a bright lamp and a fruitful tree, and bestow abundance and blessing.   AB04474

My Lord and my Hope! This is Your meek servant whose neck is bound by the chain of servitude to Your exalted threshold... and make him a cornerstone and an elevated, towering, lofty, and exalted portico in the realm of existence.   AB04951

"O God! O Thou Who givest life to the world and educates the nations! I beseech Thee by Thy Greatest Name to cast tranquility into the heart of Thy servant Hatam Muhammad, that his heart may find peace in Thy irrevocable Cause..."  AB05995

This is Thy servant who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs. Do Thou assist him through the wonders of Thy victory, then make him steadfast in Thy love, then cause him to drink that which will purify him from all else save Thee   BH08840

I beseech Thee, moreover, by Thy mercy that hath embraced the entire creation, through which Thou didst vivify the realities of all created things, to aid Thy servant Ja'far to bring forth righteous offsprings among Thy loved ones.  AB07102

"O thou who art rejoicing at the Glad-tidings of God! Thank thou God for that by reason of which He hath enabled thee to traverse the seas and countries and come safe to a Spot wherein the lights are shining with great brilliancy."  AB04918

O Haji Muhammad-'Ali, son of him who has ascended unto God, Haji Ahmad - upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious... O Lord! Make them successful in all matters and affairs, make them signs of Thy bounty amongst all peoples   AB06472

We make mention of him who was named Muhammad that he may rejoice in the remembrance of the Wronged One and be of the thankful... And We make mention of him who was named Rabi'... And We make mention of him who was named 'Ali-Akbar   BH01849

O Lord! Make the parents of the attracted leaf Kawkab Sultan the manifestation of pardon and forgiveness and exalt them through endless favors. Grant them free forgiveness and pardon and bestow upon them nearness to Your Threshold.   AB05785

O Lord! Aid Thy loved ones and Thy branches in that which beseemeth them in Thy days, then write down for them the reward of those who have circled round Thy Will and quaffed the choice wine of revelation from the hand of Thy bounty.  BH08246

O peerless Lord! Make these souls radiant throughout, make their hearts merciful, and their spirits divine, so that in all degrees they may arise to do what befits this great Day and become successful in achieving Thy good-pleasure.   AB06057

O peerless Lord! Make Dinyar Bahram joyous and grant him rest in the shade of the tree of pardon and forgiveness. Turn his night into day and make his day victorious, that he may find shelter in the proximity of the Most Great Mercy.   AB04906

I beseech Thee, O Thou the Beloved of Baha, to ordain for her the reward of those who have outwardly entered the pavilion of Thy grandeur, heard the melodies of Thy transcendent unity, and drunk from Thy hand the Kawthar of Thy mercy.   BH03667

O my God, my God! These are servants who have acknowledged the word of Thy oneness and recognized the manifestation of the Beauty of Thy singleness from the dawning-place of Thy mercy...Ordain for them every good through Thy great favor.  AB02180

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Name which Thou hast made to be the Day-Spring of Thy Revelation and the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration, to ordain for this wronged One and for them that are dear to Thee what becometh Thy loftiness.   BH07355

My God! You are my refuge, my shelter, my escape, and my sanctuary. I beseech You... that You assist this needy servant and kindle him like a radiant lamp and stir him like a surging ocean and make him a cloud pouring forth abundant rain.   AB07178

I am, night and day, engaged in remembering you, and happy with your thought, and ask the Lord of the Kingdom for confirmation, that He may make each one of you a sign of guidance and the means of educating and guiding other women and men.  AB01892

O my God, my God! Aid Thy servants to manifest such virtues as Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones, and to walk in such paths as Thou hast chosen for Thy trusted ones, that they may treat all humanity with utmost truthfulness and love...  AB08734

With the utmost supplication and beseeching did I implore the Kingdom of Mystery that ye may become the recipients of the favors of the Self-Sufficient Lord and that whatsoever is the ultimate aim and desire of your hearts may come to pass.  AB09409

Peace and glory be upon thee and upon thy son ?abibu'llah. We beseech God to assist him to remember and praise Him, and to aid him in that which will draw him nigh unto Him. Verily He is the Ever-Flowing, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  BH10496

Show utmost kindness on my behalf to Ustad Muhammad-Hasan-i-Banna. I seek abundant grace and favor from the Forgiving Lord on his behalf. I beseech assistance from the Court of Oneness for Jinab-i-Shamshad and pray for joy of heart and soul.  AB09291

Tomorrow, Friday, specifically on your behalf, a prayer of visitation will be chanted with all the friends in the Holy Shrine. And since the gathering will be large and all will be representing you, it will count as a hundred visits for you.  AB03165

O thou who gazest toward the horizon! Thy letter hath reached the Most Great Prison, and the servant who standeth before the Throne hath read it. We have answered thee with that whose fragrance hath wafted between the heavens and the earths.   BH03231

My God, my God! Aid them to accomplish what Thou hast desired for them in Thy perspicuous Book and Thy mighty Tablet. O Lord! Make known unto them that which will exalt them, assist them, and preserve them from that which is unworthy of them.  BH00758

These servants and handmaidens of Thine have turned in supplication to the Kingdom of Thy mercy and have implored the Realm of Thy oneness. O Lord! Adorn them with the raiment of Thy favors and crown them with the diadems of grace and bounty.  AB11241

It is hoped from the Abha Kingdom that they may be surrounded by endless favors and become manifestations of the grace of the All-Merciful Lord. May the Lord make Jenab-i-Thabit steadfast and confirm and assist him in what is pleasing to God.  AB02899

O Thou my God! O Thou joy of my heart and delight of my soul! Thou seest Thy beloved servant, the physician, roaming in the field of servitude, moving swiftly in the arena of devotion to Thy blessed Threshold and Thy holy and exalted Lordship.  AB11320

My God, my God! Verily Your servant Mahdi has arisen before Your exalted threshold and beseeches the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, hoping for confirmation from the Righteous Support for himself, his companion, his mother and those related to him  AB03310

O Shaykh Muhammad, Shaykh Ahmad, Shaykh Ghulamrida, Shaykh Husayn, Mirza Mahmud Khan, Mirza Husayn, Mirza Farajullah, Mashhadi Hasan, Ustad Husayn, Mashhadi Husayn-'Ali, and Mirza Isma'il Khan - upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!  AB11126

O Light shining from the horizon of the heaven of bounty, and Manifestation radiating from the Will of God, Creator of the heavens and Sovereign of the Kingdom of Names! Upon thee, O mighty pillar of God, His great Cause, and His manifest Light!  BH02260

We beseech God to assist them and make them firm in His Cause and protect them from the evil of His enemies and shower upon them the clouds of His generosity and beneficence and make them the signs of His bounty and providence among His creation  AB02306

O Lord! Make Zumurrud Khodabandeh free and cherished and accepted at Thy blessed threshold. Make him the manifestation of heavenly forgiveness and grant him divine pardon and forgiveness. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, the Forgiver, the Kind.   AB01972

O my God! O my God! This is a servant from whose eyes Thou hast removed the veil...make him a brilliant lamp, a shining star, and a firmly-rooted tree growing in an extended shade, fresh and verdant, watered by the outpouring of Thy praised cloud  AB12206

Thus did this servant supplicate and beseech at the threshold of the All-Knowing God, seeking confirmation and success for thee. I too, at the time of prayer, sought aid and bounty from the Lord of manifest signs, and beseeched favors and mercy.   AB05232

I beseech from the court of the All-Knowing God his comfort and tranquility. I seek for him infinite protection and assistance from the grace and favor of the Divine Unity. I seek for him supreme spirituality and illumination of the higher realm.   AB06220

In the Holy Garden, may my spirit be sacrificed for its pure threshold, forgiveness and pardon were sought from the Lord God, and likewise support and confirmation were beseeched for your honor and the children and ladies mentioned in the letter.   AB06369

Praise be to God, the bounty and generosity of the Sovereign of existence towards you and him is limitless, and 'Abdu'l-Baha, with utmost supplication and entreaty, beseecheth at every moment a manifest bounty for the Afnan of the Tree of existence.  AB07650

O Mashhadi Nasru'llah, upon him be the glory of God! He is the Witness from His most exalted horizon. O Nasru'llah! Your name was present before the Wronged One, Who made mention of you with the verses of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.   BH08608

O Lord! These souls are among the righteous ones and intoxicated with the overflowing cup. They are enamored of Thy face and wanderers in Thy lane and hastening toward Thee. Bestow favor and grace and deliver them from bondage to aught else but Thee.  AB01699

Therefore, O my God, send down upon him at every moment a mercy from Thee and a blessing from Thy presence, and ordain for him that which beseemeth Thy generosity and Thy bounty and Thy bestowal. Verily, Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.   BH01516

O Lord! Ordain for him every good thing in Thy kingdom, and assist him, as long as he liveth, to transcribe Thy verses and compose Thy words. Protect him within the shelter of Thy protection, and guard him beneath the eye of Thy care and preservation.  AB09768

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy greatness and Thy majesty, then by Thy loftiness and Thy glory, to protect Thy servant into whose hands Thou hast committed the reins of affairs which are attributed to Thee and to Thy Manifestation.   BH09379

This servant will supplicate and implore at the Threshold of the One, seeking forgiveness on behalf of the honored Lari, beseeching pardon and forgiveness. I hope that the ocean of forgiveness will surge forth and wash away the stains of disobedience.   AB00214

My Lord and my Hope! This is Thy servant, a branch of the Tree which was uprooted in Thy path by the hands of Thine enemies... Make this branch a root, and this twig a tree growing, thriving, verdant, fresh and flourishing in the gardens of Thy oneness   AB02762

Send down therefore upon him, O my God, from Thy glory and exaltation, Thy favors and bounties, Thy grace and beneficence, Thy signs and manifestations, Thy Word and revelations, Thy grandeur and elevation, that which will please the essence of his soul   BB00438

The devoted and successful leaf arrived at the Threshold of the All-Merciful and with spirit, heart and body circumambulated the Spiritual Place of Circumambulation, and was present in the gathering of the divine ones and the assembly of the heavenly ones.  AB09817

O ye illustrious Afnan! A few months ago, a prayer was revealed beseeching protection and divine favors for all the Afnan of the sanctified Tree and praising the qualities of the offshoots of the sacred Tree, but news of its arrival hath not been received.  AB02460

We beseech God to assist thee and make thee a standard of His name in His lands and a remembrance from Him in His realms. The glory from Us be upon thee and upon him who was named Faraju'llah and upon those who are with thee among the sincere servants of God.  BH10917

This is Thy servant whom Thou hast chosen for the Manifestation of Thyself, and whom Thou hast kindled with the fire of Thy love, and whom Thou hast caused to know the path of Thy good-pleasure, and whose name Thou hast inscribed in the Tablet of Thy decree.   BH08266

O God, my God! These are Thy servants whom the breezes of the gardens of Thy mercy have stirred, and the waves from the fountains of Thy oneness have refreshed... Aid them to serve Thy Cause and join them with Thy servant in servitude at Thy exalted threshold  AB00685

You had written asking that through divine grace you might be protected from the evil of the commanding self. This prayer 'Abdu'l-Baha constantly utters for himself. I hope that both you and I may remain safe and protected in the shelter of divine protection.  AB02152

I prayed to the Kingdom of existence and beseeched for divine assistance and bounties, that Mr. Carl Gohring may achieve success in his medical practice and that both of you may be confirmed in service to the oneness of mankind and the worship of the True One.  AB12588

O God! Protect Thy servants from drinking wine and prevent them from intoxicants. O Lord! Remove this affliction from the face of the earth until no trace of intoxicants remains and no mention of smoking tobacco is heard. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful.   AB06945

We make mention of Khadijih, the wife of Hasan, and give her the glad-tidings of God's loving-kindness - the Lord of this luminous station. We have remembered her before and before that, and We ask for her the greatest steadfastness in this Mighty Announcement.  BH05561

I beseech Thee, O Thou through Whose will the sun of generosity hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy will and the temple of destiny was established upon the throne of fulfillment by Thy command, to make me one of those whom Thou hast described in Thy Book.   BH03524

We beseech God to forgive thy father and to send down upon him at all times a blessing from His presence and a mercy from His side, and to make him hear His verses and behold the mysteries of His dominion and kingdom. He is verily the Mighty, the All-Choosing.   BH00353

O Lord! Thou seest him who hath turned unto Thee and held fast unto Thy cord, and whose words testify to Thy manifestation, Thy appearance, Thy transcendence, Thy sublimity, and Thy seat upon the throne of Thy grandeur. O Lord! Aid him in that which he desireth.  BH11607

O my God! My God! Thou seest these faces radiant with the light of guidance, these eyes gazing toward Thy most glorious Kingdom, these hearts overflowing with Thy love amidst all creatures, these breasts dilated with the signs of Thy oneness throughout the earth.  AB12360

I beseech God to make the end of your life the beginning of favors, and to confirm your two distinguished sons, the comfort of your eyes, as two brilliant stars in the horizon of glory. And I ask God to make him ablaze with a flame soaring to the supreme heights   AB06928

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the breezes of Thy Revelation, and by the Most Great Name whereby Thou hast subdued the world, to aid them to stand firm in Thy Cause, and to open before their faces the doors of Thy grace, Thy blessing and Thy bounty.  BH07472

I beseech Thee, O Lord, by his right, to send peace upon Him Who stands by Thy Cause in His station in fulfillment throughout the worlds of creation, Who is obeyed in the spheres of attributes and names, Who is unique in His station of obedience above all mankind.   BB00062

These pure souls have found tranquility in Thy remembrance, were stirred by the sweet savors of Thy holiness, were enkindled by the fire of Thy love, and spoke Thy praise amongst Thy creatures. Lord! Assist them through Thy holy angels and the hosts of Thy Kingdom.  AB10749

to open before the face of him who hath been named Abdul-Karim the gates of bounties and favors. O Lord! Thou seest him turning toward Thee and directing himself to the lights of Thy countenance. I beseech Thee to make him a banner of Thy Name amidst Thy creatures.   BH10278

My request is that on my behalf, in the Holy Shrine, they recite this prayer in a state of weeping, utter helplessness and supplication, with a voice of pleading and imploring, with sighs and lamentation and cries, and that the listeners may pray for its acceptance.  AB09665

O Lord! Assist Thy righteous servants to spread the traces in those lands which have been associated with Thee among the free, and assist this spiritual youth, Fadlu'llah, son of that illustrious and luminous man, with the confirmations of Thy Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB01255

Regarding those whose names thou hast written, I ask aid and assistance for them from God, especially...I beseech at the Threshold of the Oneness of God to shower upon him blessings and open upon him the door of guidance, bestowing upon his heart the heavenly light.   AB05576

I beseech Thee... to bless the steps of Thy handmaiden whom Thou hast named Neshat-Angiz by Thy wondrous and mighty Pen among Thy chosen ones and loved ones. Then make her a sign of Thy mercy among Thy handmaidens and a manifestation of Thy grace among Thy creatures.   BH09844

O Lord! Thou art the All-Glorious and the All-Forgiving, possessed of grace and bounty, and the Creator of the world of existence. Therefore, make that freed servant joyous and gladdened, and make that one enamored of Thy resplendent countenance pleased and grateful.   AB06675

O my God! I have turned my face toward the Kingdom of Thy sanctification and the Realm of Thy transcendence...beseeching that Thou wouldst encompass Thy loved ones with the outpourings of Thy mercy, the confirmations of Thy Lordship, and the assistance of Thy Divinity  AB00529

O Lord! Make this wise one an worshipper at Your threshold, steadfast and acceptable. Grant him aid and grace, and confirm him with the greatest gift. Immerse him in the lights in the Kingdom of mysteries, and make him bright and radiant in the heaven of eternal glory.  AB06118

O Lord! Grant tranquility to Bahram and intoxicate him with the wine of forgiveness and pardon. Forgive his sins, illumine his face, send him the protection of Thy grace, bestow the robe of forgiveness, grant the crown of bounty, establish him upon the throne of mercy.   AB02943

My God, my God! Aid Thy servant Mahdi through Thy forgiveness and pardon, cause him to enter the paradise of Thy oneness, give him to drink from the cup of meeting Thee from the hand of Thy mercy, and grant him the heavenly table of bestowal through Thy grace and favor.  AB11127

O beloved friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! In this most distant region I am occupied with your remembrance and familiar with your love... At the sacred threshold of the All-Merciful, supplication and imploring was made and infinite favors were beseeched for those blessed souls.   AB00916

O Lord! Morvarid is full of hope, and the heart and soul of Thy handmaiden Shirin is like the highest paradise. Make these two handmaidens dear and fill them with the wine of bounty. Make them passionate, make them fragrant with musk, and make them partake of all things.   AB02612

"Lord! Make him speak with a brilliant proof, a radiant evidence, a conclusive argument and overwhelming power, so that Thy distinguishing word may be fulfilled: 'Truth has come and falsehood has perished,' and there is no doubt that the false word is ephemeral and base."  AB12135

O handmaid of God Rabbabih, upon her be the Glory of God! In the name of the Peerless Friend, thy mention hath been made in the presence of the Wronged One, and thy name hath been inscribed by the Pen of Divine decree. Give thanks unto thy Lord for this well-beloved grace.  BH07634

O Lord! O All-Glorious One! O Bestower of bounty! This servant who is steadfast in servitude unto Thee, who is drawn nigh unto Thy threshold; this soul who is the guardian of Thy court and accepted at Thy gate. O Lord! Make this needy one noble through servitude unto Thee.  AB07983

O Jinab-i-Allah-Murad Khan! He is the All-Hearing, the All-Answering! We have heard thy call and, having accepted thy turning unto Us, have made mention of thee in such wise that the fragrance thereof shall endure throughout the eternity of the Most Beautiful Names of God.   BH06964

O my God, my God! This is Your servant, stirred by the breeze from the gardens of Your oneness, attracted by Your holy fragrances. Assist him in all matters and confirm him in all things and illumine his face with the lights of Your bounty, O Ever-Living, O Self-Subsisting!  AB02703

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having remembered me in Thy Most Great Prison, and thanksgiving be unto Thee for having revealed unto me that which shall endure as long as Thy dominion and Thy kingdom, Thy glory and Thy sovereignty shall endure, O God of the worlds!   BH03588

O my God, my God! Verily Your luminous maidservant, Your divine handmaiden whom You named Haji Ammih - You made her a verdant tree moistened by the outpourings of Your providence...Make them signs of guidance among the people and emblems of oneness in the land of detachment.  AB01259

My request is that, on my behalf, they should recite this prayer in the Holy Shrine in a state of weeping, helplessness and supplication, with a voice of imploring and beseeching, with sighs and lamentations and cries, and that those who hear it should beg for its acceptance.  AB09665

O Lord! Have mercy upon me through Thy grace, Thy generosity, and Thy beneficence, O All-Bountiful and All-Bestowing One! And have mercy upon this servant of Thine who supplicates unto Thee night and day. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Merciful, the Most Exalted.  AB08421

O Thou most glorious Lord! Make this little maidservant of Thine blessed and happy; cause her to be cherished at the threshold of Thy oneness and let her drink deep from the cup of Thy love so that she may be filled with rapture and ecstasy and diffuse sweet-scented fragrance.  AB10685

My God, my God! This is Thy poor servant - make him a herald unto his kinsmen, and a warner unto those who follow the people of violation and passion, and a piercing flame unto the violator of the Covenant, and a cutting sword against the roots of doubts raised by the hypocrites.  AB12641

Glorified art Thou, O God of Names and Creator of earth and heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and by them who circle round Thy throne, O Lord of all being and Master of the seen and unseen, to assist Thy handmaiden and leaf that her mention may endure in Thy kingdom.   BH09070

O my Lord, what a lofty palace You have established for Your loved ones...nurture this family with the spring rains of Your mercy and preserve them in the cave of Your protection and shelter from tests and trials. Keep them firm in the Covenant and detach them from Satan's wiles.   AB06733

O Lord! Be Thou the friend and helper of this essence of the righteous ones. Make him successful and exalt him. Ever perfume his nostrils with the holy fragrances, illumine his countenance in both worlds, and make sweet his nature. Thou art the Giver, the Bestower, and the Mighty.  AB11151

O handmaiden of God, honored mother! When she arrived at the Holy Shrine and was honored to visit the Sacred Threshold, she was always mindful of you and made mention of you. In the Holy Shrine she beseeched divine favors on your behalf, and I hope that her prayer will be answered.  AB09178

O my God, my God! This is Your truthful and trustworthy servant... Lord, perfect through him Your mercy, complete through him Your bounty, establish through him Your proof, spread through him Your fragrances, make clear through him Your signs, and explain through him Your evidences   AB01103

O Lord! Those two honored servants who are the protectors of the poor and helpers of the weak - confirm them and grant them success, preserve them in the shelter of Thy protection. Bestow upon them eternal glory and everlasting favor. Make their faces radiant and their hearts joyous.  AB12215

verily Thy servant who is afflicted in Thy path, Ghulam-Rida, seeketh divine good-pleasure morn and eve, and ceaseth not to remember the loved ones at eventide and at dawn. O Lord! Make firm his feet in Thy Cause, make him steadfast in Thy love, and grant him an exalted seat of truth  AB10748

We beseech God to assist His servant Isma'il in what He loves and is pleased with, and to send down upon him from the clouds of His grace a blessing from His presence and from the heaven of His bounty a mercy from His side. Verily He is the Powerful, the Mighty, and worthy to answer.   BH04011

We beseech God to adorn him and the friends with the ornament of sanctity and detachment. Verily, He is the Most Merciful, the Compassionate. We beseech God to protect the believers from the evil of the polytheists and to create love between the hearts of those who believe in His unity.  BH07983

O Creator! These Persians are enchanted by Your Face, intoxicated by Your nature, and wandering in Your path. Grant them shelter in Your protection and admit them to Your court. Make their station lofty and their star bright and luminous. Kindle their lamp and make their day victorious.  AB01615

O ye friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! In this moment when I am intimate with the remembrance of the friends and occupied with the mention of the loved ones, the heart hath attained delicacy and the spirit gladness, and with utmost lowliness and supplication I entreat at the Threshold of Oneness  AB04506

O Handmaiden of God, daughter of Ismi Asdaq, upon both of you be the Glory of God! He is the All-Witnessing, the All-Informed. O My handmaiden, upon thee be My glory! We have made mention of thee in numerous Tablets, both before and after, as a bounty from Us, and at this manifest hour.   BH06806

O Beloved of the horizons and Adored One of every longing servant! These souls are precious through Thy grace and bounty, and these persons are among the sincere ones...Make all intoxicated with the wine of joy and grant them an abundant share of attraction, rapture, yearning and fervor.  AB05382

O my God, praise be to Thee for having distinguished Thy servant whom Thou didst honor with Thy presence and caused to hear Thy verses. O Lord! Ordain for him and for those who have sought Thee that which befitteth Thy majesty. Then write down for them the good of this world and the next.   BH09027

Thou seest Thy servant who was named Nabil before Sadiq, who hath turned toward the lights of Thy countenance after the passing of the people of Thy kingdom... O Lord! Make him so enkindled with the fire of Thy love that through him the inhabitants of Thy lands and realms may be set ablaze.   BH03235

I supplicate God to make His beloved ones in Cincinnati (O.) glow with the fire of Sinai, imploring unto the Kingdom of El-ABHA, meek and lowly for the sake of God among His beloved, denying self and passion, grasping the robe of piety, so that they may be lamps of guidance in those regions.  AB04597

Thou seest one of Thy Afnan circling round Thy will and turning unto Thee when most of Thy servants have turned away from Thee. I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all created things, to transform his sorrow into supreme joy and his loss into greatest gain.   BH08250

Cause then My sister to become one of Thy handmaids who believe in Thee and are steadfast in Thy love. Shelter her moreover in the precincts of Thy mercy and grant her to dwell under the shadow of the Tree of Thy bounty, that her heart may be assured, her spirit calmed and her soul at peace.   BH04129

O My God! Glory be to Thee! Thou seest how Mahmud hath turned towards Thy praiseworthy station... Then write for him the good of this world and the next. Then cause him to rest beneath Thy shade and aid him to transcribe Thy verses, spread abroad Thy commandments, and manifest Thy knowledge.   BH03666

O Lord! They are Thy captives and servants, awaiting the appearance of Thy favors and anticipating the radiance of the lights of Thy gifts. O Lord! Ordain for them every good thing in Thy earth and heaven, show them the Kingdom of Thy signs, and enable them through Thy proof and Thy evidences  AB01163

I supplicate to God that He may confirm thy noble son in the attainment of arts (and sciences)... I pray ardently for them to the Threshold of Oneness and implore help and boundless Blessing for them... I am soliciting God that their dear child may be favored with growth, development and safety  AB12220

O Lord, O Lord! I beseech Thee to grant the friends in Shahrud access to the flowing waters, assist them with bountiful aid, give them to drink from the pure cup, and bestow upon them abundant gifts, inasmuch as they have turned to the Center of Light and the Dawning-Place of the Manifestation   AB00979

Be assured that at all times I pray for you and beseech from the Lord of manifest signs your bodily health, nearness in prostration, the station of witnessing, and service to the Cause of the loving Lord, that God willing, you may become the cause of rendering a service to the Lord in that land.  AB10636

My God, my God! These are servants who have turned toward the Kingdom of Thy sanctity from the most distant lands, far-reaching regions and remote places, supplicating to Thee at morn and eventide, relying upon Thee in all matters and conditions, imploring the might of Thy mercy at eve and dawn.   AB06561

Glorified art Thou, O my God, O God of the Kingdom and the Realm, and Sovereign of might, grandeur and power! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy utterance and the potency of Thy will, to assist Thy Afnan at all times in such wise that the fragrance of Thy Word may be diffused among the religions.   BH04365

O Lord! Tribulations ordained and decreed have time and again overtaken Thy servant Abdullah. O Lord! He hath held fast to the cord of patience in Thy path and steadfastness in Thy love. I beseech Thee to change their hardship into ease, their abasement into glory, and their distress into comfort.  BH11863

"O my God, my Lord and my Master! I beseech Thee by the Mother Book and by the Preserved Tablet and by the hearts of Thy Prophets which Thou hast made repositories of Thy utterance and treasuries of Thy remembrance, to aid him who hath turned to Thee and dwelt in Thy vicinity for successive years."  BH01688

O My leaf! Turn to the Most Exalted Horizon, then hearken to the call of thy Lord, the Lord of Names. He calleth thee and giveth thee glad tidings of God's loving-kindness and grace, for thy son Husayn was present before the Wronged One. Verily thy Lord is the All-Compassionate, the All-Bountiful.   BH05621

I beseech manifold favors and bounties from the Incomparable Lord on his behalf. I implore assistance and bounty from the Court of Unity for his honor Mirza Ahmad Khan and all his relatives. I beseech God that they may become a lamp lit with the light of guidance and the cause of others' guidance.   AB03442

O Lord! Make these two precious souls intimate companions with Thy remembrance, and guide these two longing hearts to the rose-garden of inner meanings and realities. Lead these two fish to the sweet waters of guidance, and bring these two gazelles of the desert of unity to the meadow of Thy bounty.  AB08707

O God! O Thou Who dost assist whomsoever desires to tread the path of guidance, and Who dost illumine the horizons with the light of dawn! Verily this servant of Thine, who is named 'Ali, hath gathered beneath the banner of the Covenant and drunk the choice wine of Thy love from an overflowing cup.   AB07161

O Lord! Make them tall-growing trees in the garden of Thy servitude, warbling birds in the meadows of Thy worship, prowling lions in the forests of Thy service, and fish swimming in the pools of Thy knowledge, speaking Thy praise, attracted to Thy beauty, stirred by Thy love, and moved by Thy Cause.  AB08981

Through Khodadad Jamshid the pilgrim, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious - Mehtar Khodadad Shahvir, Mehtar Isfandiar Bahram, Mehtar Ardeshir Gushtasp, Mehtar Rustam Bahmard, Mehtar Bahram Gushtasp, Mehtar Bahram Baman, Mehtar Nush Gushtasp, Mehtar Baman Bahram - may their souls be happy.  AB08054

O Lord! Make these two precious souls intimate companions with Thy remembrance, and guide these two yearning ones to the rose-garden of inner meanings and realities. Lead these two fish to the sweet waters of guidance, and bring these two gazelles of the wilderness of unity to the meadow of Thy bounty.  AB08707

These Alvar servants of Thine are enamored of Thy countenance and enthralled by Thy locks, intoxicated by Thy chalice and addicted to the wine of Thy eternal tavern. They are caught in Thy snare and are nightingales at Thy dawn. They are flowers of Thy meadow and grass by the stream of Thy rose garden.   AB06666

O Lord! They have borne every abasement in Thy path - make them mighty in Thy Kingdom. They have endured every hardship in Thy love - grant them comfort and joy in Thy holy court. They have fallen under the derision of enemies and the blame of the wicked - make them signs of Thy glory among all peoples   AB03846

Therefore I beseech and implore the Kingdom of Glory with intense yearning that the cloud of mercy may rain upon that region, the rays of the Sun of Truth may shine upon that land, and the breeze of the Holy Spirit may waft over that territory until that exalted region becomes a most glorious paradise.   AB04270

"We beseech God, exalted be His glory, to aid thee in that which pleaseth Him and to grant thee success in His remembrance and praise" and "in the nights and days I have beseeched and do beseech from God, exalted be His glory, glory and blessing and exaltation and bounty for you and the other gentlemen"   BH02042

O my Lord! Answer his prayer, facilitate the fulfillment of his hopes, grant his supplication, bestow upon him his heart's desire, expand his breast, gladden his heart, and make him joyous through Thy glad-tidings and moved by Thy fragrances and quickened by the breezes of the realities of Thy mysteries.  AB09676

O Lord! This is Your servant who has turned to the light of Your mercifulness and has been attracted by the fragrances from the gardens of Your oneness. He has spent his spirit, his body, his dwelling and his house in Your path and has detached himself from all things, aflame with the fire of Your love.   AB07423

My God, my God! You see me aflame with the fire of Your love... Lord! Make them the lights of Your oneness, the banners of Your sanctification, the signs of Your glorification, Your all-embracing Words, the letters of Your unfurled scroll, and Your preserved Tablet, speaking forth Your perfect mysteries.  AB02029

O Hatim, upon thee be the glory of God, the Lord of eternity! Thy mention hath been made in the presence of the Wronged One, and this most sublime and wondrous Tablet hath been sent down especially for thee from the heaven of divine Will, that thine eyes may be consoled thereby and thy heart may rejoice.   BH05732

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which Thou hast ordained for such of Thy servants as are sincere... O my Lord! Strengthen him and Thy handmaiden who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, that through them Thy remembrance may be exalted amongst Thy servants and Thy Cause amongst Thy creation.   BH05469

Verily, Thy servant Abu'l-Qasim shares with Thy loved ones the outpourings of Thy mercy, and I swear by Thy resplendent Beauty that he strives to serve Thy servants throughout the worlds, that Thy verses may be spread abroad, Thy evidences become manifest, and Thy words penetrate the hearts of the seekers.  AB12716

O God! O Bestower of good things, Forgiver of sins, and Guide to the path of salvation! Praise be unto Thee for having shown the sincere ones clear signs and brought them to a sweet flowing spring and quenched their thirst with water pouring from rain clouds. Aid Thy servants through Thy grace and bounty...  AB12216

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the effulgences of the Daystar of Thy Manifestation to ordain for them and for Thy loved ones that which befitteth Thy glory and Thy grandeur and Thy Manifestation and Thy power. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Generous.   BH07226

I ask your honor to turn, after seeking permission, and visit the feet of my Lord and your Lord and the Lord of those near unto God, His Holiness the Branch of God - may my spirit and my being and my essence and all that my Lord has given me be a sacrifice for the atoms of the dust of His glorious footsteps   BH02209

O my God! These are souls who have been purified and found tranquility through the breaths of Thy holiness in Thy lands...I beseech Thee by Thy great mercy, Thy mighty gift, and the light of Thy guidance which shineth between earth and heaven, to make these ones signs of Thy sanctification among all creatures  AB10202

O Kind Lord! Make these [passionate] souls intimate with the holy fragrances and nurture these helpless ones with various kinds of favor and bounty, and make them intoxicated from the cup of bestowal so that they may find rest in the shadow of Thy favors and be regarded by the glances of the eye of Thy grace.   AB04909

This is Thy handmaiden who hath believed in Thee and in Thy greatest signs, who hath acknowledged Thy words in the manifestation of Thy Most Glorious Beauty, and who hath clung to the hem of Thy bounty, O Lord of the most exalted Kingdom! O Lord! Illumine the glass of her heart with the lamp of Thy greatest sign.  AB12746

O Kind Lord! Keep Your handmaiden Qudsiyyih protected and preserved under the shelter of Your grace and bounty, place upon her head a brilliant crown from Your greatest gift, make her honored in both worlds, and make her the cause of eternal honor for that family. You are the Bestower, the Luminous, and the Kind.   AB04477

O My handmaiden and My leaf! Say: Glory be to Thee, O Lord of all dominion and Protector of the downtrodden! I beseech Thee by what Thou hast ordained in Thy celestial kingdom and Thy realm of might, to inscribe for this Thy leaf, by Thy Most Exalted Pen, that which will tranquilize her soul and dilate her breast.   BH09630

Therefore give thanks unto God, thy Lord, for having enabled thee to attain thy desire and for having bestowed upon thee His bountiful gifts and ordained for thee an exalted station in the Kingdom of Heaven. Verily He is unto thee most kind and generous, and thou art indeed, in Our sight, trustworthy and steadfast.  AB08270

O Thou Almighty! Illumine Thou this Association and make Thou this gathering the bright candle of the world! For their intention is for the public good and their aim is Service to humankind. O kind and compassionate God! Such a Society merits Thy Favors and such a Body deserves inexhaustible Bounty and Providence.   AB01883

O Lord! These are a blessed family who have become related to the Tree of Thy Oneness and connected to the Tree of Thy Unity. Assist them to attain exalted nobility, mighty glory and wondrous bounty, that their trees may become verdant, their flowers bloom and their fruits reach perfection in the season of spring.   AB01273

O Lord! Thou seest Thy servant Nabil, the traveler, in the hands of the tyrannical among Thy servants. I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to assist him in all conditions to serve Thee, to make him a champion of Thy Cause, and steadfast in carrying out what Thou hast willed through Thy sovereignty.  BH01129

I beseech God to grant them confirmation and success, and to bring all the Parsees beneath the shadow of the celestial Standard, that the banner of truth may wave over all the people of that land, and that they may show forth such vigor and movement as to gladden the spirits of their forebears in the highest heaven.  AB08082

I, therefore, supplicate God to confirm thy glorious children, Frederick, Robert, and Herbert, to surround them with the glances of His merciful eye, to direct them to the path of guidance and to make them enter the Ark of Safety which is cleaving the sea of this contingent world in the midst of the deluge of tests   AB06456

O sapling in the garden of God's love! What you wrote to His Highness was exactly correct, and this is from the inspiration of your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate. This journey was victorious, otherwise in the ongoing struggle I will supplicate the Most Glorious Kingdom and seek assistance and bounties for you.  AB12754

I beseech Thee, O my God, to make him and those with him Thy trustees in Thy lands and Thy signs among Thy creation. And we beseech Thee to name him in the Book of Names "The Exalted" that those with him may rejoice thereby. Then ordain for them, O my God, what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones.   BH09733

O Lord! Ordain for him what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have attained the river of reunion in Thy days and who heard with their own ears Thy call when they were present before the Throne by Thy leave and command. Then forgive him, O my God, through Thy bounty and bestowals, and grant him what he desires.   BH04459

I remained in this sacred land and conveyed greetings on behalf of the aforementioned owners in the presence of the Prophet - peace be upon him and his family - and the pure Imams - peace be upon them. I am hopeful through the grace and beneficence of my Lord that they have accepted it out of their generosity and bounty.   BB00496

O my God and God of the seen and unseen! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and the dawning-places of Thy knowledge to ordain for Thy loved ones that which will draw them nigh unto Thee and assist them in Thy remembrance and praise and in the wisdom which Thou hast sent down in Thy Book from the heaven of Thy will.  BH00896

O my Lord, my Master, my Shelter! You are my hope and You are my glory. Your grace is the ultimate goal of my aspirations and Your generosity is my greatest plea...that You make this branch moist, fresh, verdant, full of vitality, and beautiful in the sacred grove of Your oneness and the garden of intimacy with Your mercy   AB07076

O Khorasan - Jinab-i-Mirza Kuchik, Jinab-i-Mirza Muhammad Naqqash, Jinab-i-Karbila'i Qasim, Jinab-i-Siyyid Haydar, Jinab-i-Rajab'ali Hisari, Jinab-i-Siyyid Ali-Muhammad, Jinab-i-Mirza Jalal, Jinab-i-Mulla Hidayatu'llah Mu'allim, and Jinab-i-Mulla Ghulam-Husayn Bishruyih'i - upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!  AB06419

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name. Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the Light whereby Thou hast illumined the world and by Thy Command whereby Thou hast subdued the nations, to make me a servant of Thy Cause, O Lord of Names, and of Thy Most Exalted Word, O Lord of all mankind   BH09767

O Lord! O Forgiver of sins! Make Tuba a bird of the Tuba tree and grant it a nest and dwelling in the Sadrat'ul-Muntaha. Make it harmonious with divine melody in the infinite garden so that it may become intimate with prayer and supplication and forever sing with the melody of the Concourse on High in that garden of eternity.  AB00469

Blessed is he who hath loved thee and loveth thee, and who hath heard from thee the verses of God, the Lord of the worlds. Thou art he whose heart We have adorned with My love, whose tongue with My remembrance, whose eyes with beholding My horizon, whose hand with taking My Book, and whose feet with steadfastness in My Cause.   BH01273

Through Jinab-i-Bashiru'llah to Jinab-i-Mirza Muhammad-'Ali Munshi, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious...Thy letter was received and perused, and supplications were offered at the Sacred Threshold of the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name, that a new confirmation may reach thee and a speedy recovery be granted  AB09257

"O heavenly Glory of the world! O King of the realm of the All-Merciful! O my Beloved and my Purpose! O my Worshipped One and my Adored One! This broken-winged bird whom You enabled to soar - grant it wings and feathers. And this ailing person whom You charged with such a weighty trust - bestow upon him power and strength..."   AB02571

O Lord! That kind mother is dear - make her successful and confirmed in Thy good-pleasure, give her to drink from the Salsabil of bounty, let her taste from the cup of oneness, make her intoxicated with the wine of 'Am I not?', exalt her at the feast of the Abha Kingdom, and make her successful in attaining the highest horizon.  AB07657

O Lord! Illumine his face with a ray that hath shone forth and gleamed from the dawn of Thy Oneness, occupy his heart with the remembrance of the beauty of Thy Singleness, gladden his spirit with the breezes that have wafted from the gardens of Thy mercy, and cause him to speak of Thy remembrance and praise amidst Thy creatures.  AB09713

With all humility, attention, submissiveness and devotion, I commune with Thee with my tongue, my heart, my spirit, my innermost being, my consciousness and my soul, and I beseech Thee to ordain the greatest aspirations, the most excellent deeds, glory and perfection, bounty and beauty, prosperity and success for this family...   AB03600

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the dawn and Subjugator of the winds, by Thy Name through which the luminary of prosperity shone forth upon the people of Thy kingdom, to make them detached from all else save Thee, taking refuge in Thy presence and clinging to the hem of Thy mercy. Then enable them, O my God, to arise to serve Thee.   BH03632

O ye who are steadfast in the Covenant! What shall I write, for ye are aware and conscious, wise and awakened. Through the grace of the Lord, with heart like unto the sun and soul captive to that musk-laden tress, a hundred times in every moment do I call you to mind and implore assistance and bounty from the threshold of the Lord  AB07349

O Lord! Thou art the All-Wise, and Thou art the All-Merciful, the Compassionate. Ordain for this servant of Thine all the good that Thou hast ordained in Thy Kingdom, and choose for him that which is best for him in this world and the next. Make firm his steps upon Thy straight path. Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Merciful.  AB10228

O Lord! Hold me not accountable for attempting expression and exposition, and punish me not for forgetting my helplessness, lowliness and abasement in this field. Leave me not to myself, for it is sinful and plunged in the depths of rebellion. Abandon me not to my own devices, submerged in the seas of heedlessness and transgression.   AB03905

My God, my God! This is a servant who has been set ablaze with the fire of Your love, attracted by the holy fragrances of Your presence, who has prayed fervently to You and beseeched at the gate of Your oneness that You encompass his father with the glances of Your merciful eyes, immerse him in the seas of Your pardon and forgiveness  AB02169

O Muhammad-Qabli-Hasan! Praise the Goal of the world Who remembers thee in the Most Great Prison. Say: Praise be unto Thee, O my God, and thanksgiving be unto Thee, O my Glory! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and the mysteries of Thy Dominion to ordain for me that which will make me a banner of Thy Name amongst Thy servants.   BH03414

O Lord! Illumine his face with the rays that have shown forth and gleamed from the morn of Thy Oneness, occupy his heart with the remembrance of the beauty of Thy Singleness, gladden his spirit with the breezes that have wafted from the gardens of Thy Mercifulness, and cause him to speak Thy praise and glorification amidst Thy creatures.  AB09713

I beseech Thee, O my God, to send Thy blessings upon Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, and to do with me what is worthy of Thee, for Thou art the Lord of righteousness and the Lord of forgiveness, and to cause all who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs and who seek Thy good-pleasure to enter the kingdom of Thy grace and Thy glory.   BB00149

This is a fruit from the garden of Thy love, and a servant at the threshold of the gate of Thy Kingdom, and one impoverished before the dominion of Thy bestowal, and one who seeks protection with Thee from deprivation in all things during Thy Manifestation. O Lord! Illumine her heart with the light of Thy remembrance among Thy handmaidens.  AB11067

These are servants who have heard the call and responded with complete loyalty and faithfulness. They believed and acknowledged Thy mighty signs, were attracted by the radiance, turned toward the Luminary of the horizons, remained firm in the Covenant, and were not troubled by what appeared in the pages of doubt from hypocrisy and discord.   AB05417

My God, my God! This is a servant who has been illumined by the guiding lights shining from the Sun of Truth and has been enlightened by the Lamp kindled in the Glass of the All-Merciful. O Lord! Illumine his face with the light of bounty and expand his breast through the verses of faithfulness, and make him a goodly example to all humanity.  AB10808

I asked God to make thee a sign of the Signs of His Power amongst His girls, to cause thee to be an emblem of this great Century, to strengthen thee in speech and explanation, to make thee attain the visit of the Holy Threshold and to enable thy father and mother in whatever conduces to salvation and life until the eternity of the eternities  AB08986

Therefore shower upon her the glances of Thy merciful eye, adorn her with the ornament of the traces of Thy mercy, crown her head with the crown of those who have attained Thy presence and taken shelter in Thy vicinity, and accept from her this table which she hath spread for Thy loved ones. Verily Thou art the All-Generous, the All-Merciful.  AB02304

I pray for divine forgiveness for Jinab-i-Siyyid 'Ali-Muhammad and that he may be immersed in the ocean of grace and bounty...I pray for the teacher of the Tarbiyat School and seek spiritual progress for the children...I seek a ray of divine favors for the maidservant of God Ruhiyyih and protection and assistance from the All-Merciful for all"  AB00929

O Habibu'llah! We have answered thee and made mention of thee in this perspicuous Tablet. We have named the heavenly table "Mary" as a token of Our favor and a mercy from Our presence. We beseech God to bless her coming and to rain down upon her from the clouds of His grace the showers of His blessing, His bounty, His generosity and His gifts.   BH06778

Would that thou mightest become, like unto that ascending Tree, a branch thereof, and like Zacharias and John, become one concerning whom it was said "Grant me from Thyself an heir who shall inherit from me and inherit from the House of Jacob, and make him, O my Lord, one with whom Thou art well pleased." May this be confirmed and made manifest.  AB09401

Thou hadst mentioned the construction of the sacred edifice and the raising of the mighty temple, and hadst expressed thy utmost desire to help carry earth for that lofty structure. God willing, I shall carry some loads of earth on thy behalf, and this indeed is glad tidings that shall illuminate thy face among the concourse of those drawn nigh.  AB04842

O peerless Lord! Make this captive with musk-laden locks a recipient of Thine infinite favors, and grant whatever is the desire of his heart and conscience. Fulfill his need, bestow purity upon his heart, make him a prince of fidelity, and make him firm and steadfast in the station of poverty and nothingness. Heal his pain and fulfill his desire.  AB12384

O Lord! Immerse in the ocean of Thy mercy this handmaiden of Thy threshold, the mother of Rustam and his noble father. Grant them shelter and refuge in the protection of Thy pardon and forgiveness, and favor them with Thy special grace in the proximity of Thy bounties. Thou art the Forgiver, the All-Merciful, the Compassionate, the All-Bountiful.  AB08737

My Lord, make him a diffuser of the divine fragrances, a remover of veils, a reciter of clear verses, and a healer of every chronic disease. My Lord, make him speak with proof and evidence, inspire him with the essence of explanation and exposition, raise through him the banner of assurance, and unfurl through him the sail of grace and beneficence  AB12084

Then spread the musk-like fragrance of the Greatest Name and the sweet-scented breeze of divine favors upon the nostrils of thy two leaves, those pure ones who are firm in faith and devoted in service, and gladden them with the outpouring bounties of thy Lord, the All-Bountiful, and the all-encompassing glances of the merciful eyes upon them both.  AB09659

O Kind Beloved! These friends are intoxicated with the cup of the Covenant and wandering distracted in Their love for Thee, traversing the desert. They are aflame with separation from Thee and in utmost longing for Thy dawning light. Send forth a manifestation of grace from the invisible realm of the mystic Kingdom and scatter the rays of bounty.   AB02235

O Abdullah! Upon thee be the peace of God, the Lord of all names and Creator of heaven. The mother and sister and other sister and two sons - all are remembered before the Wronged One. We make mention of Hibatu'llah, upon him be God's peace and favor, and We beseech God, exalted be His glory, for each one that which causeth elevation and ascendancy.   BH01213

O Lord! Make him a brilliant star in the horizon of divine knowledge, and a gleaming light in the zenith of certitude, and a dawning planet in the heaven of witnessing and vision, that he may guide the people to Thy straight path and direct way, and illumine their eyes with the light of certitude, and expand their breasts through Thy mighty outpouring  AB12225

O God! O God! Verily, this Thy handmaid is attracted by Thy holy fragrances, and she hath turned her face toward Thy merciful countenance. Ordain for her every good in Thy Kingdom and shower Thy blessings upon this noble family. Let the lights of Thy mercy encompass them unto all eternity and keep them beneath the shield of Thy protection and support.  AB12734

O God, Supporter of the sincere ones to walk upon the straight path and to enter the garden of paradise and to drink from the spring of Tasnim! Assist these souls to walk upon the upright path and make them luminous lamps and heavenly stars and divine beings, and through them spread the holy fragrances and guide the people and awaken them from slumber.  AB05999

"O Kind Beloved! Show the light of Thy countenance to the lovers and revive the yearning ones with the life-giving breeze. Give the living waters to the thirsty ones and bestow special gifts upon those attracted to Thee. Especially that family whose men were among the ancient friends and whose women were leaders among the handmaidens of the Merciful..."   AB04025

O Lord! Immerse the handmaiden of Thy threshold, the mother of Rustam and his esteemed father, in the ocean of Thy mercy. Grant them dwelling and shelter under the canopy of Thy pardon and forgiveness, and favor them with Thy special bounties in the vicinity of Thy bestowals. Thou art verily the Forgiver, the All-Pardoning, the Merciful, the All-Merciful.  AB08737

O Lord! Cause 'Arif to drink deeply from the spring of pure water, to be detached from all else save Thee in this manifest Day, to shine forth from the horizon of Thy love with a brilliant and wondrous light, to flash forth from the clouds of Thy mercy, O Lord of the worlds, and to knock at the door of Thy bounty, O Shelter of those who are nigh unto Thee  AB07854

O my God, my Lord and my Hope! Thou knowest that the Wronged One loveth to make mention of the son of him who turned towards Thy horizon, who arose to serve Thee, who spoke forth Thy praise, and who led Thy sheep to Thy spring. I beseech Thee, O God of the world and Desire of the nations, to ordain for him the best of what Thou hast sent down in Thy Book.   BH10683

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to give thee to drink, at all times, from the Kawthar of mercy and the Salsabil of utterance, and to send down upon thee the fragrances of His loving-kindness and mercy from His presence and grace from before Him, and to make thee associate with His chosen ones in the Most Exalted Paradise and the Supreme Heaven.   BH04098

My Lord confirmeth, maketh things pleasant, bestoweth His blessings, His most great guidance, most mighty grace, the happiness of both this world and the world to come, and changeth sorrows and anguish into gladness and joy. With every breath I beg of Abha Kingdom that He may confirm you, gladden your hearts, bless you and glorify all the friends of Saysan  AB03954

My God, my God! This is Thy servant who is related to him whose breast Thou didst expand through the light of Thy knowledge...Make him a sign of Thy oneness, an emblem of Thy glorification, a flower of Thy gardens, a fish in Thy pools, a branch in Thy groves, a lamp of Thy love, a niche for the light of Thy knowledge, and a jewel in the crown of Thy gift.   AB05027

O Lord! Thou seest how he hath been tried in Thy path. Deprive him not of that which Thou hast ordained for the sincere ones among Thy chosen ones and for them that are nigh unto Thee among Thy loved ones. Aid him in all conditions to remain steadfast in Thy remembrance and praise, and to speak forth among Thy servants, detached from all else besides Thee.   BH06195

Thanks be unto Thee that we traversed mountain and desert and crossed the mighty ocean until we reached this region. Throughout this land we mentioned Thy name and fame, even in this church, like unto Elijah, we called unto Thy Kingdom. O Lord! Make the people of this church attracted to Thy beauty, keep them safe and protected in Thy shelter, and bless them.  AB10702

O Haji Abdul-Husayn, upon him be the Glory of God...O Lord! Thou seest him clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy generosity and holding fast to Thy sure handle and the cord of Thy Cause, O Lord of all names! Ordain for him what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, then send down upon him that which shall be a light unto him in all the worlds of Thy worlds.   BH04750

I beseech Thee to ordain for me and for my brother who is named Asghar every good thing which Thou hast sent down from Thy Most Exalted Pen in Thy Tablets and Thy Books, O Lord of all beings! O Lord! Ordain for my other brother who is named Baqir, and for my sister, that which befitteth the ocean of Thy bounty, the heaven of Thy mercy, and the sun of Thy favor.  BH11758

O Lord! These brothers are loving, companions and friends. They seek Your face, tread Your path, speak Your mysteries. Grant them stability, bestow praise, confirm them, reveal the verses of unity, make them honored, make them ecstatic, illumine them, make them lamps of the gathering. You are the Powerful and Mighty. Verily You are the Generous, the Most High.   AB06610

O Lord, O Shelter and Refuge! In that port the loving friends arranged a gathering of fellowship and adorned an assembly with holy fragrances. Day and night they engaged in the recitation of verses and chanted praises and attributes with the most wondrous melodies. With utmost humility and supplication they sought forgiveness for their errors and transgressions.   AB04942

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Prophets, Thy chosen ones, Thy pure ones, and by Muhammad Thy Messenger, and by His family and companions who aided Thy religion and sacrificed their wealth, their souls and their blood in Thy path, to ordain for him that which will profit him in all the worlds of Thy worlds and cause his mention to endure among Thy servants.   BH05527

I beseech Thee, O God of all beings and Educator of all created things, by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the effulgent lights of the Day-Star of Thy generosity unto Thy servants, to ordain for this servant of Thine that which will exalt Thy name amongst Thy creatures. Then write down for me what Thou hast written for Thy chosen ones and Thy trusted ones.  BH11772

In this moment when 'Abdu'l-Baha is in the utmost state of supplication and imploring, and is prostrate at the Sacred Threshold of the Lord of Mercy, I became occupied with your remembrance and, God willing, at a time filled with spirit and fragrance, I shall recite the Prayer of Visitation on your behalf facing the Blessed Spot, and I shall beseech boundless favors  AB05517

"My God, my God! Verily, Thy servant Baqir, of radiant countenance and illumined heart, implores Thee and hopes for Thy favors and awaits the wonders of Thy tender mercies. O Lord! Assist him against the enemies and strengthen him with mighty power and loosen his tongue in praise and cause him to speak through the confirmation of the Holy Spirit in the Abha Kingdom"   AB02680

Verily this servant of Thine hath been attracted by the fragrances of Thy most glorious holy garden, and hath been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love burning in hearts and souls. He communes with Thee in the dark of night and supplicates Thee to make him a sign of Thy mercy amongst all peoples. O Lord! Aid him to achieve that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.  AB10322

My Lord, my hope, my shelter and my refuge! Assist this divine youth with the hosts of inspiration and cause him to praise You among the people, and make him Your brilliant sign and Your evident standard among the people until he speaks with the most wondrous utterance in gatherings of knowledge and wisdom and composes marvelous works containing proofs and arguments   AB01320

O Lord! Illumine his sight with the witnessing of all Thy signs, strengthen his resolve to serve Thee among the God-fearing, grant him a way out in all matters, make easy for him all that is difficult, and strengthen him with the hosts of divine inspiration that he may guide mankind to the fountain of life in the garden of good-pleasure and the paradise of the heart.   AB07182

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne and by that which hath appeared from Thy presence, and by this lamp which hath been beset by tempestuous winds from every direction, that Thou protect him and Thy loved ones there, and ordain for him and for them that which shall never cease to shed its fragrance throughout the eternity of Thy names and attributes.   BH01124

My God, my God! You see me ascending in sighs and shedding tears, humbling myself before You in the depths of nights and early dawns, aflame with the fire of Your love by night and day. Lord! Protect Your servant whom You named Fadl in the shelter of Your protection, and guard him with the eye of Your care and grace from the evil of enemies who have oppressed humanity.   AB02195

May God reward thee with the best of rewards, bestow upon thee His most excellent favors, ennoble thy future life, make thee a sign of guidance, strengthen thee with mighty power, immerse thee in the ocean of faithfulness, give thee to drink from the chalice of the divine call, clothe thee with the robe of righteousness, and cause thee to taste the sweetness of bestowal   AB05419

Then send down, O my God, from the clouds of Thy mercy upon him who hath been named with the First Name of these two Most Exalted Names that which will purify him from all except Thee, sanctify him from all save Thee, and turn him toward the direction of Thy unity and the seat of Thy glorious singleness, and preserve him from whatsoever is abhorrent to Thy good-pleasure.   BH02944

O my Lord! This servant of Thine hath clung to the hem of the robe of Thy grandeur, and seeketh sustenance from the treasuries of Thy bounty and bestowal, and striveth to win Thy good-pleasure, and to be illumined by the lights of the daystar of the horizon of Thy favors. O my Lord! Make easy for him that which he desireth and expand his breast through the light of unity.  AB10325

O Lord! These pure souls are enamored of Thee and bewildered by Thee. They have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love and have burned away the veil of vain imaginings. They have grasped the truth, are self-sacrificing for Thee, and tearful from separation from Thee. Make these souls the manifestations of Thine endless favors and the recipients of Thy freely-given aid.  AB07985

O God! Cherish these friends and make them familiar with whispered prayer and supplication, and cause them to be in harmony with the birds of the meadow, that they may sing in the rose garden of unity and adorn the gathering of detachment, that they may find rest in the shelter of divine favors and stain their face and hair with their own blood in the field of sacrifice.   AB01609

O my God! Send Thy blessings upon the first Sun that shone from the horizon of Thy sanctity and the last Dawn that rose from the light of Thy countenance, whereby Thy Cause illumined the kingdom of Thy creation after the concealment of Thy countenance, and upon Thy sanctified loved ones and Thy exalted Letters, and upon those who have come unto Thee and descended upon Thee  BH04092

O my merciful Lord! This is a hyacinth which hath grown in the garden of Thy good pleasure and a twig which hath appeared in the orchard of true knowledge. Cause it, O Lord of bounty, to be refreshed continually and at all times through Thy vitalizing breezes, and make it verdant, fresh and flourishing through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy favours, O Thou kind Lord!  AB11064

I supplicated God to increase thy faith, to encircle thee with the lights of the Kingdom, to guide thy thirsting and craving sons to the Fountain-head of Mercifulness. And (I beg of Him) to enable thee to teach His Truth, to deliver His Cause, to promote His Word, and to train the souls whom superstitions have veiled from witnessing the lights of the Bounty of these days.   AB06425

Have mercy, O Lord, upon his poverty before Thee, and accept, O Lord, his obedience before Thy face. Inspire him, O Lord, with Thy remembrance and with what he asked of me and what he asks not of the paths of wisdom. Fulfill, O Lord, what Thy foremost servant has guaranteed regarding his mother's rights, and reward him, O Lord, in his striving and obedience as befits Thee.   BB00123

O faithful God of the upright people! Thanks be unto Thee because these pure souls are detached from the world of matter and have attached their hearts to the world of Purity. They are ready and agile to serve Thee. Confer upon them the heavenly Gift, grant unto them spiritual illumination and develop these pearls through the downpour of the vernal showers of Thy Generosity!  AB09740

O Lord! Muhammad hath endured every hardship and tribulation in Thy path, and hath shown patience in the face of the gravest afflictions out of love for Thy Beauty. He hath tasted every bitter cup in his longing to attain Thy presence. He hath never faltered in Thy remembrance, and the censure of the critic and the harm of the slanderer in Thy lands have never deterred him.   AB03606

Say: Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and Thy Dominion, and by Thy chosen ones and Thy Prophets, to assist me to perform that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book and that which will cause the fragrances of Thy good-pleasure to be diffused. Then ordain for my brother who is named 'Ali the best of the hereafter and of the former life.   BH09678

Free Bahmarad Rustam from the bonds of grief, make him honored, forgive him, bestow Thy favors upon him, make him the companion of the people of the highest heaven, grant him shelter at Thy threshold, and through Thy grace and bounty, make Rustam, the kind son of Hormuzdyar, blessed. Make them two shining candles, two flowers in the rose garden, and an adornment of the gathering.  AB09942

I commune with You, O my God, with my secret tongue and my spirit, and You are the Intimate Companion of those who commune. I beseech You, O my Beloved and my Goal, and You are the Compassionate Giver to those who beseech. I have stretched forth unto You the hands of supplication and entreaty, that You may make Your servant Siraj a brilliant lamp among the people of the world...   AB01227

This is one of Thy servants who hath been attracted by the breaths of Thy Revelation and drawn by the fragrances of Thy love in such wise that he hath turned his face unto the lights of Thy luminous countenance. I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the Dawn, to assist him at all times and to ordain for him in the kingdom of Thy might that which he loveth and with which he is well-pleased.   BH07125

O Almighty! Endear thou this maidservant of Thy Threshold, Frau Ruoff, in the Kingdom of Thy Holiness, and submerge her in the Ocean of Sight. Overlook her shortcomings; confer upon her Thy Grace! Vouchsafe her Thy Purity in the Court of the Paradise of Abha! Bestow upon her Eternal Life and suffer her to become the manifestor of infinite bestowals in the meeting of transfiguration.  AB11107

O Thou kind God! That scattered assembly is Thine, and that gathering of friends is of Thee. Their eyes are opened, their hearts in tune with Thy love, and their ears in communion with Thy hidden mysteries. O Thou who art self-sufficient! Let a beautiful song reach this people from the birds of that garden, that they may warble, rejoice and be happy, implore and supplicate the Lord.  AB03718

O Lord! The son of Shafi' is a suckling at the breast of Thy bounty and a suppliant at the gate of Thy mercy. He praiseth and thanketh Thee for the outpouring of Thy guidance, and calleth upon Thee with a tongue that speaketh amongst Thy creation, and beseecheth from Thee the greatest of favors and the most mighty of gifts. O Lord! Ordain this for him through Thy grace and generosity  AB10716

O loving Providence! Bestow blissful rapture upon these leaves who adore Thee, so that they may obtain the radiant light in the Sinai of search; and while imploring Thee to unravel Thy mystery, they may feel the era of Divine Presence... Vouchsafe everlasting grace, O Lord, and grant eternal salvation; so that they may arise to serve Thy Cause and may lead that land to sublime glory.  AB03831

I beseech Thee by the Manifestations of Thy signs, and the Daysprings of the lights of Thy Revelation, and by that which is hidden in Thy knowledge, to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty upon him who hath found Thee that which will cool his eyes, and tranquilize his heart, and give rest to his being, that the affairs of the world and what the nations possess may not trouble him.   BH00611

O my Lord, my Lord! Verily, Thy servant Abu-Talib is seeking Thy bounty, arriving at Thy stream, drinking from the choice wine of Thy love, intoxicated from the exquisite cup of Thy remembrance. O Lord! Make affairs easy for him, transform every difficulty into ease, ordain for him praiseworthy endeavor, bestow upon him abundant gifts, and establish his mention in the unfurled scroll   AB11889

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to adorn thee in all conditions with the ornament of righteousness and fear of God, to protect thee from the evil of enemies, to give thee to drink at all times from the cup of recognition, and to ordain for thee from the Pen of Destiny that which will draw thee near unto Him and assist thee in that which thou hast been commanded in His Book.   BH01211

This is one who supplicates toward the Kingdom of Thy sanctity, who clings to the hem of the robe of Thy grandeur, and who seeks sympathy from Thine immense bounty - that Thou mayest make him encompassed by the tender mercies of Thy compassion, immersed in the seas of Thy oneness, and soaring in the heights of Thy beneficence. My God! Through Thy generosity and grace, fulfill his hope.  AB10330

My God, my God! This great company and mighty group has arisen to serve Thee and promote sciences with abundant resolve, without deficiency or weariness. Lord, accept from them this contribution and assist them with Thy hosts on the Day of the Covenant and make them mighty signs among all people. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest and Thou art the Strong, the Mighty.  AB03755

O Lord! Prevent not Thy chosen ones from turning to the horizon whence the sun of Thy presence hath shone forth, and deprive them not from arising before the door of Thy bounty and generosity. O Lord! Thou seest them turning toward the direction of Thy prison and holding fast to the cord of Thy grace. Ordain for them through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of both this world and the next.   BH00572

You had mentioned the steadfastness of the friends of T. and Kh. This news perfumed our nostrils and illumined our hearts. We beseech and implore the Abha Kingdom with utmost humility and supplication that He may make the friends of that region so firm and steadfast in God's Cause and His divine Covenant that all the friends may follow their example and they may become an excellent pattern.   AB00343

I therefore supplicate at the Blessed Threshold that, under the shadow of God's loving providence, and in the shelter of His protection, ye may be shielded and preserved from all visitations and afflictions, and that ye may keep the shining lamp of those two illustrious souls ever luminous and refulgent; that ye may follow their example, and be worthy offspring of those illustrious forbears.  AB00467

These are Thy humble servants whom Thou hast chosen for Thy love and selected for Thy knowledge, and with whom Thou art well-pleased for their faithfulness to Thy Covenant and Testament. Thou hast admitted them into the company of Thy loved ones and given them to drink from the cup of attraction brimming with the wine of Thy love, and Thou hast ordained for them a seat of truth in Thy Kingdom.  AB07763

This is a servant whom Thou didst create from the elements of power and might... O Lord! Unite his scattered affairs, gather what is dispersed, cause his branch to grow, make his cloud to rain, spread his book, expand his breast, exalt his worth, illuminate his lamp, refine its glass, cause him to shine upon the horizons with the light of justice and fairness, establish him firmly in the earth   AB00716

O my God, my God! These are Thy sincere servants who have turned away from all else but Thee and are firm in Thy Covenant. Ordain for them every good thing in Thy Most Glorious Kingdom, aid them with hosts they cannot see, assist them with Thy near angels, strengthen their loins in Thy Manifest Cause, and make them Thy greatest signs among all people and Thy firm words in the ancient scriptures.   AB02607

O my God! O my God! This, Thy servant, hath advanced towards Thee, is passionately wandering in the desert of Thy love, walking in the path of Thy service, anticipating Thy favors, hoping for Thy bounty, relying upon Thy kingdom, and intoxicated by the wine of Thy gift. O my God! Increase the fervor of his affection for Thee, the constancy of his praise of Thee, and the ardor of his love for Thee.  AB09139

"O Lord of the highest heavens, Helper of humanity, Refuge of the weak ones and Shelter of the poor! Verily Thy servant Mustafa hath freed himself from error and misguidance and hath been guided by the light of guidance. He calleth upon Thee with utmost humility and contrition, saying: 'O my chosen Lord! Aid me from the Kingdom of mysteries and grant me an exalted station in the realm of lights.'"  AB08420

O peerless Lord! Make those two wise friends honored at the Threshold of Oneness. Make those two fragrant and colorful flowers bloom in the rose garden of the Kingdom. Grant those two soaring falcons of Thy love a nest and shelter in the Divine Lote Tree. Make those two nightingales of the rose garden of mystical knowledge harmonize with the most wondrous melodies in the eternal rose bush of mercy.  AB06324

O Pure Lord! Draw near this ancient servant to the Supreme Horizon and honor this poor servant in the Great Kingdom. Quench this one who thirsts for favors from the Ocean of Beneficence, and assist this one who is turned to the horizon of Oneness with the confirmation of Thy Glorious Lord. And grant refuge to this wanderer in Thy lane, in the shelter of Thy aid and bounty, in this world and the next.   AB05623

O Lord, my Lord! This is Your servant who has detached himself from all directions and turned towards the land of Your loved ones, speaking Your remembrance, expounding Your proofs and evidence, diffusing Your fragrances, chanting Your verses, and manifesting Your clear signs. Lord, Lord! Treat him with Your great mercy, distinguish him with Your mighty gift, choose him for Your Most Glorious Kingdom...   AB02864

O Divine Providence! O Lord of loving-kindness! Thy faithful servant, Mr. Thornton Chase, forsook his home, departed from his native land, and traversed the mighty ocean, until, arriving at the shores of the Holy Land, he came unto this Blessed Spot, laid his head upon the Threshold of the Sacred Shrine, made lowly supplication at the court of Thy divine unity, and implored Thy confirmation and assistance  AB03842

My God, my God! These are Thy sincere servants, attracted by Thy holy fragrances, enkindled with the fire of Thy love, speaking Thy praise, expounding Thy proof and evidence, promoting Thy religion. I implore Thee and beseech Thee to confirm them with what Thou hast promised them through the confirmations of Thy divinity and the assistance of the hosts of Thy Supreme Concourse and company of Thy near angels.  AB00807

O Mirza Abdul-Husayn, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious! Lord, Lord! Strengthen Thy servant Abdul-Husayn, who is bound in servitude to Thy Most Great Name, to serve Thy Cause and hasten to the field of sacrifice through Thy help and favor, to proclaim Thy Covenant among all people, to propagate Thy Cause in all regions, and to spread the sweet fragrances of Thy holy gardens throughout all lands.  AB12243

I beseech and implore God, exalted be His glory, to grant unto each one both outward and inward bounties, and sustenance both earthly and heavenly, and this will assuredly be answered through His generosity, which hath encouraged me, and through His bounty, which hath increased my certitude. And I implore God to bestow speedy recovery upon the honored beloved, His honor A.B., upon him be Baha'u'llah's [glory].   BH00851

O my Lord, my Lord! These are Thy servants who circle round the throne of Thy mercy, who gaze toward the horizon of Thy oneness, who supplicate to the kingdom of Thy singleness, who bow down humbly to the dust in prostration before Thy divinity. They are nurtured in the cradle of Thy care and the embrace of Thy lordship, enkindled with the fire of Thy love, known among Thy creation by their connection to Thee.   AB00364

Say: My God, my God! The sweet fragrance of Thy utterance hath enraptured me and the choice wine of Thy Most Great Name hath intoxicated me. Thou seest me, O my God, turning toward Thee, gazing upon Thy horizon, and awaiting the wonders of Thy grace. I beseech Thee by the breathings of Thy Revelation and the lights of Thy countenance to ordain for me and for my son the good of this world and of the world to come.   BH07989

O thou who art marching onward to God! I have read thy beautiful letter which contained delicate meanings, and I am made glad by its contents which expressed spiritual feelings. I have prayed to God to send down upon thee a blessing from the Kingdom of Heaven and thus make thy heart beat with joy in the love of God, and make thee meek and humble before the good maid-servants of God, and pure and holy in His Kingdom.  AB08996

O Lord! Thou art the Strong, the Powerful, and Thy servants are weak and poor. Adorn them with the ornament of Thy strength and power. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Bestower. O Lord! Assist Thy Afnan through Thy bounty and generosity, then open before his face the doors of Thy grace and mercy - that whereby he may become known through Thy name, mighty through Thy might, and obeyed through Thy grace.   BH00756

O Lord! Thou hast brought these wanderers beneath Thy shadow and given them shelter and succor. Thou hast turned nothingness into being and non-existence into reality. To the thirsty Thou hast given cooling water, and to the hungry Thou hast spread a bountiful table and freely bestowed abundant provision. Therefore, be Thou in every circumstance their refuge and shelter, and in every pursuit their helper and sustainer.  AB08619

Your pure-hearted brother crossed the sea and arrived at the blessed, luminous Shrine. He circumambulated the point round which circle the Concourse on High. He laid his head upon the Sacred Threshold and sought assistance and bounty... I hope that by virtue of this prayer the greatest bounty will be attained and the mightiest blessing secured, closed doors will be opened, and scattered affairs will be joined together.   AB06416

My God, my God! With all lowliness and brokenness, I cast myself upon the dust of poverty and need, and I commune with Thee with the tongue of my heart, with inner devotion, and with both hidden and manifest supplication, beseeching Thee to show loving-kindness to these noble and righteous ones - a kindness that will make them signs of Thy sanctification in all conditions and circumstances, O Thou Lord of Majesty and Grace!  AB07853

O my God! Send down, O my God, on that day upon my father in his resting place that which will comfort his eyes and raise him to the ultimate reaches of Your mercy and the utmost bounds of Your grace and bounty. Likewise, include in all that we have beseeched You those households whose people have believed in You and were among Your worshippers, and those who believed in God and His signs and were among Your sincere servants.  BB00617

My God, my God! These are they whom You have raised from the grave of self and gathered on the Day of Meeting beneath the banner of bounty, and chosen them for Your love among all people, and selected them for the manifestation of Your gifts before all mankind. Lord, Lord! Make those radiant faces mirrors of the lights of Your greatest gift, and make those watchful eyes delighted by beholding the lights of the highest horizon.  AB01470

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, whereby Thou hast guided the peoples to the shore of the ocean of Thy utterance and given them to drink of the Kawthar of attainment from the hands of Thy grace and bounty, to ordain for me through Thy Most Glorious Pen that which Thou hast ordained for the company of Thy chosen ones. Then send down upon me, from the clouds of Thy grace, the rain of Thy mercy.   BH09073

O compassionate Lord! These souls are servants of Thy Threshold and are in the utmost truthfulness and uprightness. Fill to overflowing their cup of hopes, make them radiant lights, bestow upon them the effulgence of Thy favors, make them the manifestations of Thy bounties, grant them progress day by day, and increase Thy bestowals unto them, that these precious souls may attain unto the highest degree of success and prosperity.  AB08623

Hearts have been gladdened by thy remembrance in this praiseworthy gathering, this blessed station, this renowned presence, and this frequented house on this witnessed Day. I have raised suppliant hands, turning in complete devotion to God, that He may cause the clouds of His overflowing grace and the rain clouds of His bounty and favors to pour down upon the gardens of the beings of the loved ones of the All-Merciful in this time.  AB10759

O kind Lord! Make these two assured souls content and pleasing in the court of Thy Oneness. Make them manifestations of the signs of unity and recipients of the favors of the new Kingdom. Make the son the mystery of the father and cause them to spring from the element of heart and soul, that outwardly and inwardly, spiritually and physically, they may become like their father and engage day and night in service to the Cause of God.  AB03702

O my God, my God! This is Your servant who has forsaken all mention and is occupied with Your mention, who has turned his gaze from every direction and faced the Kingdom of Your mercy, who has turned away from all faces and sincerely directed his face to the Sovereign of Your Lordship, and who has beseeched Your Divine Presence to assist him in serving Your Cause, exalting Your Word, manifesting Your signs and revealing Your lights.   AB04625

We make mention of 'Abdu'l-Baha who hath attained that which most of the servants have not attained. God willing, may they ever gaze toward the horizon of the All-Merciful and be gladdened by His grace. Likewise, convey greetings from the Wronged One to the other friends. We beseech God to draw them nigh unto Him and to strengthen them in that which will exalt their mention among His servants, and to grant them success through wisdom.   BH00498

O my God! O my God! This is a servant who hath sought refuge at the gate of Thy oneness, who hath clung to the hem of the robe of Thy singleness, and who hath turned toward the kingdom of Thy divine unity. Guard him with the eye of Thy loving-kindness, preserve him in the cave of Thy protection and safekeeping, cause him to enter beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy mercy, make him a sign of Thy oneness and a token of Thy glorification  AB08495

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word through which were enraptured the people of Baha, and by Thy Most Glorious Name through which hearts were drawn to Thy Most Sublime Horizon, and by that Name through which Thou didst transform darkness into light and tyranny into justice, and through which the ships of Thy Cause did sail upon the sea of Thy will - to aid Thy servants to turn unto Thee and to direct themselves towards Thee.  BH01101

This is Your servant who has submitted himself to the King of Your Oneness, who has humbled himself before the Presence of Your Singleness, who has believed in the Beauty of Your Unity, and who has supplicated to the Kingdom of Your Self-Subsistence. O my Lord! Answer his prayer, facilitate the fulfillment of his hopes, grant his request, bestow his desire, expand his breast, gladden his heart, and make him joyous through Your glad-tidings  AB09676

O my God! These are servants and bondsmen whose innermost thoughts are pure, whose hearts are good, whose breasts and hearts are aflame with the fire of Thy love, whose cries in chanting the verses of Thy sanctification rise to Thy Supreme Concourse and Most Glorious Kingdom...Lord, Lord! Make them signs of Thy oneness in the world of creation and standards of Thy glorification waving in the winds of Thy confirmation throughout all regions.  AB00598

O Lord! Rear these holy souls in the Shadow of Thy favors. Protect them under Thy Shelter. Save them from harm. Make them the Signs of Thy Unity, the Banners of Thy Oneness and Thy Hidden Words. Refresh them with the drops pouring out of the clouds of Thy Mercy. Fill them with a new spirit by the gentle breezes wafting out of the Garden of Thy Revelation. Make them brilliant lamps like minarets lighted by Thy Love and blissful in both worlds.  AB07740

O my God! This is Your servant, attracted by the fragrances of the verses, enkindled by the fire ignited in the Tree of Words, turning to You with a humble and submissive heart, broken before Your Kingdom, enamored with Your love, consumed by the fire of longing, who has endured every tribulation and pain in the path of Your love and has submitted to Your sovereign oneness with a radiant countenance, watchful eye, brilliant brow and pure heart   AB05030

O Lord my Creator, O my God, my Compassionate Lord! These Persians are ancient friends and true companions of the East. They are enamored and bewildered by Thy countenance, and lost and wandering in Thy path. For long years they gazed upon Thy radiant face and burned in the fire of love for Thee. Therefore open a door and bestow a ray of light that hearts may become as heaven and souls as rose gardens. Thou art the Mighty, Thou art the All-Seeing.   AB06463

My God, my God! Muhammad has hastened to the court of Thy holiness and the precincts of Thy mercy, that he may attain Thy presence, gaze upon Thy beauty, and find shelter in Thy shadow. O Lord! Ordain for him every good thing in Thy Kingdom, aid him through those special favors Thou hast reserved for Thy near ones among Thy servants, and make him drink from the cup of forgiveness until he becomes intoxicated with the choice wine of grace and bounty.   AB02860

Convey the Most Glorious and Most Wondrous greetings to the assured handmaiden of God, the mother of Mirza Jalal, and likewise to the leaves of the Most Glorious Paradise, the young maidens of the loved ones who are engaged in reciting prayers and chanting verses and performing obligatory prayers. I beseech God to assist them in attraction and enkindlement and devotion and supplication and humility and submissiveness in all circumstances and conditions.   AB00694

O my Lord, my Goal, the Ultimate End of my hopes, and my Refuge! I take flight to none save Thee, I place my trust in none save Thee, and I lament before none save Thee. I beseech Thee, by the sovereignty of Thy oneness, to ordain every good thing for this servant of Thine who hath clung to the hem of bounty and hath acknowledged his transgressions. O Lord of the world to come and of this present life! Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Ever-Forgiving.  AB10722

"O God! Thou art witness that the nameless and traceless 'Abdu'l-Baha is ready to sacrifice his life in the path of the friends, and desires with utmost longing to freely and worthily offer up his life for each one. O Lord of loving-kindness! These servants are wandering in Thy wilderness, and are lost in the desert of Thy love and the plains of Thy knowledge. Cast upon them the glance of Thy favor and grant them a gift. Confirm them and give them success."  AB01965

I offered the utmost of prayer and supplication at the Threshold of the Possessor of Glory that the leader of the Worthies, the Glorious Ameer, your kind father may be submerged in the Ocean of Divine Grace, become intoxicated with the Wine of Celestial Bestowal and Favor, obtain the Peace of the spirit in the Rose-garden of the Merciful;- in the midst of the Paradise of Knowledge and attain to the station of Transfiguration in the Delectable Heaven of God.   AB04222

Convey the greetings of Abdul-Baha to Mrs. Persons Floyd and say: Be patient under hardship, show forth steadfastness and perseverance. Turn thy face toward Akka and seek confirmation. Strive to transform thy companion and attract his heart. If thou dost manifest the divine teachings in word and deed, it will cause his heart to be attracted. Though thou art in a cage, I hope thou wilt be freed and soar in this infinite atmosphere. Be confident in God's grace and favor.   AB00152

O my God, my Lord, my Master and my Hope! I beseech Thee by the Name through which Thou didst subdue the servants and all who are in the lands, and through which appeared the ocean of Thy wisdom and wafted the fragrance of Thy loving-kindness and flowed the river of Thy mercy, to pour forth upon them patience from Thee, then ordain for them what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who cast the world behind them, turning unto Thee and hastening to the ocean of Thy bounty.   BH00556

My Lord! Verily Thy servant Ahmad-i-Mahmud took shelter under the extended shade and accompanied Thy servant in journeying and traveling through many regions, keeping him company for several months until he returned to his country to serve the path of righteousness and to make good his beginning and his end. My Lord! Encompass him with every good, ward off from him all harm, ordain for him a blessing from Thy presence, and make easy for him every difficulty through facility.  AB12580

The evanescent servant in all conditions remembers your honor and your presence and the presence of the brothers who cast away that which is rejected to its people and took up that which is good as a command from the All-Merciful in the Furqan, and remembers his honor Husayn, upon him be the Glory of God, and his brother, then his brother, upon them both be the loving-kindness of God and His grace, and beseeches Him, exalted be He, to make them among His chosen ones in His earth.   BH03178

O my God, O my God, this is Thy servant who hath responded to Thy call, accepted Thy words and believed in Thy signs. He hath become versed in Thy proofs and evidences, enkindled with Thy fire, sought illumination from Thy light, and in the day Thou manifested Thyself - thunderstruck with Thy splendor - he prostrated himself at Thy threshold...O my Lord, aid him to carry out Thy will and Thy pleasure, and strengthen his loins by Thy grace and bounty, O Lord my God, The Most High.   AB00816

O `Ali-Akbar Hakim, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy most glorious mystery and the Dominion of Thy grandeur manifest in the visible things, that Thou look upon this servant with the gaze of Thy mercy, and turn toward him with the glances of the eyes of Thy oneness, and send unto him a breath from the breaths of Thy holiness, and comfort him in his loneliness, and quench his thirst, and cool his burning anguish, and remove his great distress  AB09039

O Lord, My God! Assist Thine erudite servant and make him the light of the garden of virtues, the pupil of the eyes of the learned, and a sign amongst Thy signs. Aid him in every matter and dilate his breast with the rays of Thy oneness, O My Lord, the Ever-Forgiving! Unloose his tongue in Thy praise in the assemblies of light, inspire him with the verses of Thy unity in the gatherings of joy and delight, and diffuse through him the sweet savours of Thy holiness in every land and region.  AB12789

O my God! O my God! These are souls who have bowed their necks before Thy sovereignty, whose voices have been humbled by Thy grandeur, whose breasts have been dilated by the signs of Thy oneness, and whose hearts have been attracted by the fragrant breaths of Thy holiness. O Lord! Aid them through Thy confirmations, make them successful through Thy assistance, and send down upon them a blessing from Thy presence. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Self-Subsisting.  AB09141

O Lord! Assist the branches of Thy Tree of Grace and the offshoots of Thy Tree of Oneness to hold fast to the hem of Thy Singleness and to cling to the cord of Thy Oneness. O Lord! Illumine their faces with the lights of Thy sanctification, expand their breasts with the verses of Thy unity, and purify their hearts with the waters of Thy glorification. Make them signs of Thy Kingdom and standards of Thy Realm. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Compassionate, the All-Bountiful.   AB06265

O my God, my God! These are souls who have bowed their necks before Thy sovereignty, whose voices have been humbled by Thy grandeur, whose breasts have been dilated by the signs of Thy oneness, and whose hearts have been attracted by the sweet savors of Thy holiness. O Lord! Assist them through Thy confirmations, make them successful through Thy bestowals, and send down upon them a blessing from Thy presence. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.  AB09141

O my God! O my God! Verily Your servant Jalil and the noble Hasan have turned their faces purely toward Your generous countenance, have devoted themselves to Your mighty Kingdom, have submitted to Your dominion among the worlds, have shown humility before Your sincere loved ones, and have chosen tribulation over a life of ease in Your path, O my Glorious Lord! O Lord, make them soaring birds winging through the atmosphere of Your love, and make them lofty trees in the garden of Your knowledge.  AB04366

My God, my God! These are a company attracted to the Kingdom of Thy mercy and a group turned toward the Realm of Thy oneness. O Lord! Make their hearts mirrors wherein the Sun of Reality is reflected with its brilliant effulgences shining upon all regions. Make their tongues speak Thy praise among all humanity, their eyes delighted by witnessing Thy greatest signs, their ears gladdened by hearing the melodies of the Supreme Concourse, and their faces illumined by rays of light from the guidance.   AB03007

Your esteemed husband reached the threshold of the Most Great Name, and placed his head upon the dust of the Court, and beseeched assistance and bounty that all the family, nay rather the entire household, might become, through the blessing of the Ancient Beauty, the manifestations of the Most Great Grace, and attain supreme triumph, and find their way to the highest paradise, becoming verses of guidance and signs of the Abha Kingdom. I hope that this prayer will be accepted on behalf of all that family.  AB11793

O Lord! These are Thy distinguished servants and Thy chosen ones among humanity, and the noble princes in that white spot, and the great ones among Thy creation and the eminent ones among Thy creatures. They are jubilant in Thy remembrance and exultant in Thy praise, calling out Thy name, submitting to Thy word, and rejoicing in Thy favors. O Lord! Make them leaves of the Tree of Thy mercy and flowers of the Garden of Thy lordship and lamps of the horizon of Thy love and stars in the heaven of Thy bounty.  AB04100

O handmaid of God, the supplicating Aftab, mother of Rahbar, upon her be the Most Glorious Glory of God! He is God! O thou who hast visited the gathering-place of the Supreme Concourse and the Most Exalted Station! We beseech the favors of the Lord of the Covenant that both Shamsu'd-Duha and Rahbar may ever remain safe and protected in the shelter of the Truth, and that thou too mayest ever be a manifestation of joy and delight beneath the shade of divine favors, and in the utmost enthusiasm and attraction.  AB08108

'Abdu'l-Baha is fervently beseeching at the Divine Threshold, supplicating and saying: O Divine Providence! Vouchsafe blissful joy to Thy faithful friends and admit these awakened ones into the circle of the righteous. O God! O Thou Self-Subsisting One! Bestow a share upon all, provide for all. O Thou Merciful One, O Thou Compassionate One. Enable us to gain admittance into Thy delectable paradise and make us truly steadfast. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful and Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Seeing.   AB02544

O my God! This is Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. Illumine his sight with the vision of Thy holy signs, gladden his heart with the sweet fragrances from the gardens of Thy Kingdom of intimacy, expand his breast through Thy confirmation, purify his face for Thy generous countenance, and cleanse his hearing from all voices save Thy most sweet call from Thy most glorious Kingdom. Refresh his spirit with the breeze wafting from the source of Thy supreme favor. Verily, Thou art the Great, the Most Exalted.  AB00561

O God! O Thou Who openest the doors, Who bewilderest hearts and minds, Who preparest the means for the success of Thy servants in both the beginning and the end! My Lord, make this servant of Thine immersed in the ocean of Thy mercy, devoted to the threshold of Thy holiness, and a companion to Thy chosen ones and loved ones. Aid him to serve Thy creation, to show compassion to Thy creatures, and to be sincere in Thy Cause. Make him a sign of Thy bounty in Thy lands and a token of Thy mercy amongst Thy servants.  AB12655

O Lord! Thou seest one of Thy servants who was named Ali before Akbar raising his hands toward the heaven of Thy loving-kindness, beseeching from the wonders of Thy bounty that which shall adorn him with the ornament of Thy remembrance. [He is the one who] hath turned toward Thy horizon and acted according to what Thou didst command him in Thy Tablets. O Lord! Aid him to accomplish what Thou lovest and art pleased with, and ordain for him what Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones in the latter and former days.   BH04370

O Thou kind Lord! Grant heavenly confirmation to these faithful and sincere souls. Enable each one to soar like birds in lofty heights, and like nightingales attune them to songs of praise and glorification. Make them shine like lamps, and like fruitful trees make them adorn the garden and meadow. Make their hearts shells for the pearls of inner meanings, and quicken their souls with the breath of the All-Merciful, so that each one may arise to diffuse the fragrances of God and illumine many with the light of guidance.  AB08053

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Thou beholdest my dwelling place and my tribulation, and Thou knowest that in this Tablet I have desired naught save one of Thy loved ones who hath turned to the court of Thy favor, that the breathings of Thy revelation might attract him in Thy days, and that the rapture of reunion might seize him in such wise as to cause him to arise to serve Thee amidst Thy creatures. O Lord! Accept from him that which hath proceeded from him in Thy path, then enable him to do what Thou lovest and approvest.  BH01744

O my God, my God! This is a servant who has awakened from the sleep of heedlessness and roused himself from the slumber of neglect and recovered from the intoxication of vain desires. Nothing awakened him except the fragrance of flowers from the gardens of Thy oneness, and nothing revived him except the sweet-scented breeze at dawn from the gardens of Thy singleness. O Lord! Illuminate his heart with the lights of Thy wise remembrance and light his lamp with the light of Thy manifest bounty. Verily Thou art the Generous One.   AB07172

O God, my God! Lord of the seen and unseen, and Sovereign of existence! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and by Thy chosen ones and pure ones whom nothing whatsoever hath hindered from turning toward Thee - who stood before the faces of the world and declared: "We believe in the Dayspring of verses and the Manifestation of clear tokens Who hath come with a brilliant light and a mighty sovereignty" - to ordain for Thy loved ones that which will draw them nigh unto Thee. Then forgive them through Thy grace and generosity.   BH01244

Say: Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having made me acknowledge the unity of Thy Being and the sanctity of Thy Self above the recognition of Thy creatures. I beseech Thee, O Bestower of bounties and Quickener of moldering bones, by Thy Most Great Name, to assist me to exercise justice and fairness. O Lord! Thou seest the monotheists in the hands of the polytheists who have broken Thy covenant and Thy pact and have surrounded Thy cities and lands. O Lord! Ordain for me and Thy servants the good of the hereafter and of this world.   BH00964

O thou whose name hath been adorned through its connection with the Most Great Name! My Lord and my Hope! This servant of Thine hath turned to Thee with a watchful eye and a radiant face, and hath taken in his right hand the cup of guidance and drunk the wine of mystic knowledge, and desireth to give the sincere ones to drink of this divine wine. My Lord! Make him a guardian of the loved ones and a protector of the chosen ones and a servant at Thy holy Threshold amidst all peoples, and assist him with the hosts of the angels of heaven.  AB09711

O my God, my God! Verily Thy servant Hanna Dawud hath been set aflame with the fire of passionate love in Thy love, and hath emerged in the realm of existence with a power like the rumbling of thunder. He hath spoken Thy remembrance amongst the servants and become renowned throughout the land, while every envious one lieth in wait for him. O Lord! Protect him from the arrows of the corrupt ones and make him a brilliant sign shining upon the heads of all witnesses. Verily Thou art the Generous, verily Thou art the Mighty, the Bestower.   AB04726

O my God, my Beloved, my Purpose! I beseech Thee by Thy imprisonment among Thy servants and Thy trials among the people of Thy realm to assist him and Thy servants to aid Thy Cause through wisdom and utterance. O Lord! He is the one who hath drunk the Kawthar of Thy presence and attained the honor of visiting Thy countenance. I beseech Thee not to disappoint him of the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest and within Thy grasp is the kingdom of the dominion of the heavens and earths.  BH00407

O my God, Supporter of the sincere ones and those steadfast in Thy Covenant and confident in Thy promise! Aid these, Thy servants, to serve at the threshold of Thy holiness, and make them signs of guidance and stars of piety, shining from the supreme horizon and gleaming from the highest zenith. Make firm their feet that they slip not through the doubts of the people of passion and desire. Verily, Thou dost protect whomsoever Thou willest through Thy power that prevaileth over all things. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  AB00450

O Kind Lord! These souls are servants of Thy threshold and true guardians. Day and night they are aflame with the fire of Thy love and are intimate with the breathings of Thy holiness. They have no purpose save Thy good-pleasure and seek no desire except reunion with Thee. Like unto candles they burn and melt, and like unto nightingales they are companions to melody and song. Each one in Thy Most Glorious Paradise utters Thy praise, drinks from the stream of Thy mercy, strives to exalt Thy Word, and burns and boils with the fire of Thy love.  AB04135

Repeatedly have we beseeched and continue to beseech protection, victory, triumph and that which will gladden thy heart from the True One. Verily, He is the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. At this moment, this servant is present and attaining in thy stead, and the Wronged One's tongue attesteth to its acceptance. Well is it with thee, and may it be wholesome for thee. We beseech God to make the end of all affairs good through His grace and a mercy from His presence. Verily, He is the Commander, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH01458

O Lord! These are Thy friends and are intoxicated with the wine of Thy Covenant. They are all nurtured in the cradle of Thy bounty and are nursed at the breast of Thy loving providence. Though they be poor, yet they are wise; though they be weak, yet they are strong, for Thou art their Support, Thou art their Kind Helper. Make them distinguished in the world of existence and grant them a place in the Divine Threshold. Make them white-faced in the Supreme Concourse, open unto them the door of hope, and grant them a portion of heavenly bestowals.  AB08620

O Lord! Assist him to serve Thy Cause, make him steadfast in the word of Thy Oneness, support him with Thy confirmations, strengthen his loins in arising to obey Thee, and illumine his countenance among the company of the Afnans through the intensity of his firmness and steadfastness, that the censure of the censurer may not deter him in Thy Cause, nor may the force of violent tempests that uproot the ancient and deep-seated in every age move him, nor may the whirlwinds that tear up the firmly fixed from their foundations in all times shake him.   AB00140

O Lord! This is a servant who has turned his face to the Kingdom of Thy oneness, who has been guided by the Fire kindled in the Tree of Thy singleness, and who has supplicated the Kingdom of Thy detachment, being assured of Thee and Thy signs, clinging to the cord of Thy favors, hoping for Thy help and protection, seeking Thy good-pleasure and yearning for well-being through Thy grace. O Lord! Open unto him the gates of joy, transform all his difficulty into ease, and grant him comfort in all affairs, O my Lord, the Compassionate, the All-Merciful!  AB09375

O God! O You who attracts hearts through the magnet of love overflowing upon existence, who revives decayed bones through a spirit that refreshes hearts and souls, who shines with the Ancient Light upon the horizons of creation, and who gives everything a portion of Your vast mercy encompassing contingent being - I beseech You and implore You to look upon Your servant Vali with the gaze of Your hidden divine mercy, to envelop him with the grace of Your manifest bounty, and make him a brilliant star in those distant regions and far-reaching territories.   AB04231

O my God, my God! This is a spirit that has been stirred by the revelations of the Day of meeting with Thee, and this is a lamp that has been lit from the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy mercy. O Lord! Assist him in all things and make him aware of the mysteries of Thy revealed Tablet. Strengthen his back to exalt Thy Word, O Ever-Living, Self-Subsisting! Make his tongue speak forth Thy proofs and evidences, O Thou Possessor of might and power! Make his children, descendants and progeny successful in serving Thy Cause, O Lord of signs and of the Kingdom!   AB05025

O my God! This is a branch from the branches of the Tree of Affirmation and a twig from the twigs of the Tree of Thy Oneness. He has turned to Thee in humility at the gate of Thy unity, clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy singleness, attracted by Thy remembrance and speaking Thy praise. Preserve him through Thine eye of protection and guardianship, shelter him beneath the shadow of Thy safeguarding and protection, enable him to attain Thy good-pleasure in all things, protect him from the uncertainties of fate, and assist him with the aid of the Hidden Mystery.  AB01784

O my Lord! This is a servant who has turned to the Kingdom of Thy unity, who has been guided by the Fire kindled in the Tree of Thy singleness, and who has supplicated to the Kingdom of Thy detachment, being assured of Thee and Thy verses, holding fast to the cord of Thy favors, hoping for Thy help and protection, seeking Thy good-pleasure, and yearning for well-being through Thy grace. O my Lord! Open unto him the gates of joy, transform all his hardship into ease, and make him to find comfort in all affairs, O my Tender Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate.  AB09375

O God, my Purpose, my Adored One! Thy remembrance is the companion of hearts and Thy mention the solace of souls. Whosoever seeketh anyone but Thee hath been and shall ever be in loss, and whosoever desireth any other than Thee hath been and shall ever be bereft. Bid the sun of Thy grace to shine upon the dead, and the rain of Thy mercy to pour upon the realm of existence. O my God! The saplings of the garden seek water, and the flowers of the garden of inner meanings yearn for confirmation. Water and sun are Thy two great signs - deprive not Thy servants of these two.   BH01046

At midnight, while in a state of prayer, I besought confirmation and success for thy friends Theodore de Boer, Miss MacCoy, Edith Sanderson, Mr. Dreyfus, Miss Laura Barney, Anna Watson, Mrs. Florence Watson, Mary Harper, Mrs. Lily Ross, Gustav Henry Clonquet, Charles Mason Remey, Mary Lucas, Louise Stauper, Martha McBean, Agnes Alexander, Thomas Breakwell, Sutherland Maxwell, Mary Pomeroy, Alfreda Martin Klemm, Bernetta Crawford Herman, that through divine assistance and heavenly protection they may be successful and remain firm and steadfast in the love of the divine Kingdom.  AB01260

O my God, my God! These are servants who have gathered in this spiritual assembly with radiant faces, supplicating unto Thee that Thou mayest assist them to serve Thy Cause in this glorious century, to exalt Thy Word in this wondrous Day, and to diffuse Thy fragrances throughout all regions of the earth through Thy great protection and aid. O Lord! Confirm them in all that they desire through Thy bounty and generosity. Verily, Thou art the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate, the Lord of infinite grace. Verily, Thou art the Giver, the Confirmer, the Helper, the All-Bountiful.  AB10244

O Lord! The friends in every corner are under threat from strangers and the unfriendly. They are weary of life and detached from every thought. They seek Thy face and hasten toward Thee, speaking of Thy mysteries. O loving Friend! Protect and preserve these helpless ones from strangers in the stronghold of Thy protection, raise up the fallen ones with Thy mighty hand, and grant the deprived ones a bountiful portion through Thy ancient grace. Make those who are destitute intimate with Thy mysteries, and nurture and favor the yearning ones with the gift of attaining Thy presence.  AB07344

This is Thy servant who hath sewn the robe of the glory of Thy sovereignty and the garments of the sanctity of Thy Temple, and who emigrated with Thy Most Exalted Beauty until he entered with Him into this Most Great Prison. I beseech Thee therefore, O my God, not to sever the thread which Thou hast made a means between him and the lights of Thy Beauty and the knowledge of Thyself. Then make him steadfast in Thy love, and grant him the best of what lieth with Thee, and establish for him from Thy grace a seat of constancy, and prepare for him from Thy command in this Cause guidance.   BH10330

Through Mr. Zair Ardeshir, to Mr. Mehraban Pour Khodabakhsh and his esteemed wife, handmaid of God Dolat, upon them both be the glory of God. O ye two who are associated with the Supreme Threshold! Mr. Ardeshir, like a lion, made his way to the luminous forest and, like a fierce lion, reached these thickets. In this wilderness he roared, and at the Supreme Threshold he offered worship, and on your behalf he beseeched forgiveness and sought pardon. We implore the favors of the kind Lord that his needs may be fulfilled and his supplications in the court of the Lord of Signs may be answered.  AB08718

O my God, my God! These are servants who have responded to the Call and answered the Summoner of Truth with hearts overflowing with love and devotion, with breasts dilated through the tokens of faithfulness, and with eyes fixed upon the Most Exalted Kingdom. O Lord! Make them radiant lamps and loving stars, and tall-growing trees, and flowing rivers, and verdant gardens, and gushing fountains. Aid them with hosts from the Concourse on High, and assist them with the angels of heaven, and strengthen them with mighty power. Verily, Thou art the Strong, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Generous.  AB08486

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, and Thy Most Ancient Light, and Thy Most Resplendent Beauty, and Thy Straight Path, and Thy Right Way, and Thy Supreme Mediator, and Thy Most Exalted Means, and Thy Greatest Sign, to assist this servant of Thine to hold fast to Thy Most Firm Handle, and Thy Glorious Gift, and Thy Most High Bounty. Then ordain for him every good that Thou hast ordained for the choicest among Thy creation, and prepared for the most virtuous among Thy servants, and bestowed upon the noble scribes of Thy words. Make him steadfast and upright in Thy Cause and in Thy love.   AB06476

"O my God and my Hope! Thou knowest my secret and my public self, my hidden and manifest being, and art aware of the extent of my love and the intensity of my devotion to the branch of Thy divine Lote-Tree, the twigs of Thy Tree of Oneness, and the offshoot of Thy Tree of mercifulness. O Lord! Make pure his soil with the downpour of Thy favors, moisten his leaves with the outpouring of the clouds of Thy bounty, cause him to be verdant through the rains of Thy springtime grace, flowering through the breezes of Thy paradise of care, and fruit-bearing in the holy paradise of Thy faithfulness."  AB03859

O my God, my God! This is a servant who hath turned unto the Kingdom of Thy mercifulness, and placed his trust in the dominion of Thy oneness, and found solace in the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy unity, and hath been quickened by the spirit of communion beneath the shade of Thy divine Word. O Lord! Make firm his footsteps in Thy Cause, expand his breast through Thy light, gladden his spirit through Thy victories, spread through him Thy remembrance, make him speak forth Thy praise, clothe him in the robe of sincerity in Thy Cause, and through Thy grace admit him into the Garden of immortality.  AB09138

O my Lord! I have traversed the desert, crossed the sea, until I reached the realm of light. I became a dweller at Thy threshold, sought refuge at Thy court. O Lord! Forgive my sins and make my heart and soul aware. Grant me steadfastness, open the gates of the exalted Paradise, make me a peacock of the highest heaven and bestow upon me colorful wings. Make me an ancient servant and adorn me with the ways of firmness and rootedness, that I may arise to serve Thee, burn and be content in Thy love, and play sweet melodies in Thy praise. Thou art the Bestower, the Kind, and Thou art the Forgiver of sins.  AB09720

O my Lord! These two servants have taken refuge in the shelter of Thy mercifulness and have clung to the threshold of Thy Lordship and have turned their faces toward the Kingdom of Thy Self-Subsistence and have purified their countenances in Thy love and have held fast to Thy Most Firm Handle, O Thou Who art the Lord of the First and the Last! O my Lord! Assist them to serve Thy servants and aid them to win Thy good-pleasure and exalt them in the Kingdom of existence and illumine them with the lights of Thy bounty in the worlds of the Unseen and the Seen. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Loving.  AB12680

O my God! O Thou Who hast caused the clouds of ordainment to rain arrows of trials upon the souls of the loved ones after the greatest calamity and supreme catastrophe! O my Lord! These are nine souls from among Thy most special loved ones whom Thou hast raised unto Thyself, brought into Thy presence, caused to dwell near Thy most great mercy, and admitted into Thy highest Paradise. O Lord! Grant them sustenance from the table of reunion in Thy most exalted Kingdom and cause them to enter beneath the shade of Thy Lote-Tree of the furthermost boundary. Verily Thou art the Forgiver, the Bestower, the Merciful.   AB01506

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the hearts that were cut to pieces in Thy path and dissolved in separation from Thee, and by the bodies that soared in Thy love, and by the faces that turned unto Thy face, and by the sweet-scented breezes of Thy Revelation in Thy days, and by the manifestations of Thy power in Thy Kingdom and Thy Realm of Might, to ordain for him who hath visited Thy handmaiden, through Thy Most Exalted Pen, the best of the world to come and of the first world. Then forgive him, O my God, through Thy grace and bounty, and purify him, O my Goal, from transgression, through Thy Name, the All-Merciful.   BH00595

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having caused me to hear Thy call, to behold Thy signs, and to recognize the Dayspring of Thy verses and the Dawning-Place of Thy clear tokens. I beseech Thee by Thy loved ones whom neither names could hold back from turning towards Thy most exalted horizon, nor could the doubts of men cause them to slip, to assist the children of the Friend to do that which beseemeth Thy days. O Lord! Withhold them not from the shore of the ocean of Thy bounty. Illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge and strengthen them to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy creatures.  BH03639

I beg of God to make his ears attentive, his eyes observing, his heart abounding with the lights of guidance and to make his soul as one of the signs of his Mighty Lord. Pray ye in his behalf night and day that God may strengthen him in a matter which may shine, beam and glow in the niche of the Kingdom of God and that He may cause him to arise and assist the pious ones, to seek bounty from the signs, to gain illumination from the lights, to deliver the necks of all men from the chains of superstition, to feed the needy ones upon the food of the Kingdom of God and support the weak ones with a penetrative power from the Word of God.  AB01140

O my God, my God! These are two servants, attracted to Thy radiant countenance and Thy Most Glorious Beauty, submissive to Thy loved ones, humble before Thy chosen ones, serving Thy Cause, arising to diffuse Thy fragrances, raising the banners of praise, shining from the horizon of faithfulness, speaking Thy mention in every morn and eve. O Lord! Make them two signs of Thy bounty and two words of Thy Book and two lamps of Thy love and two glass vessels of the lights of guidance in that furthermost bank. O Lord! Strengthen them with a host from the angels of heaven and assist them in serving Thy loved ones with confirmation from the One mighty in power.   AB02491

O Lord! Accept this pitiful maidservant in Thy Kingdom and let her partake of everlasting bounty. Let her drink from the chalice of love and give her the light of recognition. Let her attain purity in the fountain of Job and let her be remedied from the afflictions and pains of human characteristics. Let a ray from Thine own qualities shine upon her. Make her heavenly and let her attain lordly qualities and breathe over her the breath of the Holy Spirit. Make her to become quickened with the spirit of the oneness of humanity. Give her an eloquent speech, a detached heart and the inspiration of proofs and evidences. Make her the cause of guidance of souls.  AB08825

O My God, my God! This is a servant who has turned toward the Kingdom of Thy mercy, who has placed his trust in the heaven of Thy oneness, who has found solace in the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy unity, and who has been quickened by the spirit of communion beneath the shade of Thy divine Word. O Lord! Make firm his steps in Thy Cause, expand his breast through Thy light, gladden his spirit through Thy victories, spread through him Thy remembrance, cause him to speak forth Thy praise, attire him in the robe of sincerity in Thy Cause, and admit him into the garden of immortality through Thy grace. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Kind, the Generous, the Merciful.  AB09138

O Lord! Deprive him not of the revelations of the light of Thy knowledge, and render him not deprived of the effulgences of the dawn of Thy favors. Make all his deeds and devotions as one devotion in Thy presence. This is what the sovereign of Thy chosen ones uttered in a prayer taught by the Lord of Thy Messengers: "that all my deeds and devotions may become as one devotion, and in eternal service to Thee." O Lord! Protect him who hath entered the fortress of Thy security, then aid him who hath sought shelter beneath the shadow of Thy banner. Grant him pilgrimage to Thy Sacred House once again, and ordain for him that which shall profit him in the hereafter and in this world.   BH01028

My God, my God! Thou hearest the cry of the lovers and the plaint of those who yearn for Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst deliver Thy chosen ones from the evil of Thine enemies and didst exalt Thy Cause through Thy power and might, to assist Thy loved ones to do what is pleasing and acceptable unto Thee. Then ordain for them, O Thou through Whose Name the ocean of generosity surged throughout the world, that which shall profit them in the hereafter and in this world, and shall draw them nigh unto Thee in every world of Thy worlds. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Lord of grace abounding. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01297

O my God, my Beloved, my Desire! Your mention has spread and Your Cause has become renowned in a region where the Manifestation of Your mercy dwelt and the Dawning-Place of Your oneness made His home, and where pure and holy souls were guided, becoming attracted by the lights of Beauty and enkindled with the fire of reunion and submitting to the verses of Glory, speaking in praise and calling out with the loudest cry and becoming intoxicated with the wine of faithfulness. My Lord! Cause them to be immersed in the seas of bounty and to plunge into the depths of the supreme gift, that they may extract the pearls of truth and meaning from the shells of this surging, overflowing ocean upon the shores.  AB01598

O thou Eternal One! Make the friends of that country prosperous, acquaint them with the mysteries; usher them into the divine rose-garden and reveal to them the hidden realities and significances; make their hearts the association of truth and their souls full of divine melodies and sacred (choral) music! O God! This respectful assemblage are my relatives and kindred and the cause of the happiness of this afflicted one. Bestow upon them a shining face and grant them a musk-diffusing character. Show them the mystery of the Kingdom and suffer them to hear the soul-elevating harmony of heaven! Awaken (the people) by the breeze of the Paradise of ABHA and make them alive by the power of the Holy Spirit.  AB03088

O Lord of the Kingdom, power and might! You see me crying out to You, seeking shelter at the gate of Your mercy, seeking illumination from the lights of Your oneness, and seeking assistance through Your aid and care. Lord, rescue me through Your grace and favor, and assist me through Your generosity and wealth. Lord, straighten my path to You and strengthen my trust in You. Do not leave me to myself and do not abandon me in the wilderness of passions. Draw me near to Your luminous threshold, facilitate for me the ultimate desire, and protect me with Your watchful eye in this first life. Verily You are the Generous, verily You are the Forbearing, and verily You are the Kind, the Compassionate, the Merciful.   AB05441

My Lord! These two servants Thou didst create with power and sovereignty, and Thou didst guide them to the fountain of life, and gave them to drink from the cup of faith, and made them drunk with the wine of certitude, and caused them to speak with the most wondrous melodies in the gatherings of divine knowledge, and established them in Thy service and in spreading Thy verses and reciting Thy words and educating children who were born in the bosom of Thy love and nursed from the breast of Thy care and raised in the cradle of Thy guidance and nurtured by the outpourings of the cloud of Thy favors. My Lord! Assist them to exalt Thy Word among Thy creatures and enable them to spread Thy banners among Thy creation.   AB05455

Glory be unto Thee, O God of the Afnan and Lord of all existence! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Merciful, to assist them at all times in Thy remembrance and praise, and in arising to serve Thee with wisdom and utterance. O Lord! Thou beholdest them turning toward the horizon of Thy grace, gazing upon the lights of Thy countenance, and clinging to the hem of Thy bounty. They traversed land and sea until they entered the Luminous Spot, the place which Thou didst make the circling-point of Thy loved ones, Thy chosen ones, and the Concourse on high. I beseech Thee to ordain for them that whereby their spirits, bodies, forms, names, and remembrances shall endure throughout the dominion of the kingdom and the realm.   BH00442

Glory be to Thee, O my God! Thou seest Thy servant whom Thou hast made to be attracted by Thy verses and enkindled with the fire of Thy love. He desires to mention one of Thy loved ones who is named 'Ali-before-Akbar in Thy Most Great View. I beseech Thee, O God of existence and Lord of the seen and unseen, by Thy most exalted Paradise and Thy most sublime Garden, and by the Sun of Thy grace which hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of bounty, to assist him in Thy remembrance, Thy praise, and the service of Thy Cause. O Lord! Deny him not the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance in Thy days, and ordain for him what Thou hast ordained for the chosen ones among Thy servants. Aid him with the hosts of the unseen and the visible.  BH11704

My God, my God! Verily this handmaiden of Thine supplicates to Thee, relies upon Thee, and turns to Thee, seeking the encompassing of Thy merciful favors, the manifestation of Thy spiritual mysteries, and the dawning of Thy divine lights. O Lord, O Lord! Illuminate the vision of my spouse, expand his breast with the light of Thy knowledge, attract his heart to Thy manifest beauty, and gladden his spirit with the appearance of Thy radiant light. O Lord! Remove the veil from his sight, bestow abundant bounty upon him, intoxicate him with the wine of Thy love amongst all people, make him one of Thy angels walking upon the earth while his spirit soars in the heavens, and make him a lamp shining with the light of Thy knowledge among the concourse.   AB03017

My God and my Hope! This is Thy servant who hath turned unto Thee, who hath clung to the hem of Thy garment and held fast to Thy cord, who hath striven to exalt Thy Word and labored in Thy Cause, who hath traveled through Thy lands until he returned unto Thee and took up his abode near Thee, seeking refuge with Thee in Thy most noble spot. O my Lord! Encompass him with the glances of Thine eye of mercy, aid him to serve the Word of Thy oneness, make him successful in the greatest steadfastness and in remaining firm and resolute amidst all mankind, and make him one who speaketh forth in praise, who gazeth toward Thy most exalted Kingdom, and who turneth his face toward Thy most glorious Dominion. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the All-Bestowing.   AB08499

O God! Bahram-i-Khusraw yearned for Thy path, and spread his wings that he might behold Thy face and soar toward Thee. O Lord! Thou art forgiving and kind. Grant him forgiveness, bestow rest upon him, and give him tranquility at Thy threshold. Make him intoxicated with the wine of reunion and make him steadfast. Grant endless bounties to Khusraw-i-Mihraban and make him radiant and distinguished among his peers through the divine light. Grant peace to Isfandiyar-i-Bahram, make him of good name, bestow heavenly messages upon him, make him joyous, deliver him from the darkness of gloom, and make him like the bright morning light. Make Baman-i-Bahram an aware servant at Thy threshold and make him a guardian at the gate. Make him loving and make him a leader.   AB06470

O my God, my God! Thou art He Who hast planted the tree of Thy mercy in the paradise of Thy oneness and watered it from the wellspring of Thy unity, until it grew and developed and lengthened and branched forth and spread out and extended, filling the east and west of existence. And among its branches is this steadfast and firmly rooted Afnan, who holdeth fast to the cord of Thy Covenant and cleaveth to the hem of Thy Testament. O Lord! Thou knowest that I love this Afnan with all my heart and with all my soul and with all my being, and that I am well pleased with him. I beseech Thee by Thy grace and bounty to be well pleased with him and make him a sign of Thy grace. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Merciful, the All-Pardoning, the All-Forgiving.  AB07852

O Lord, God of Abraham and Isaac! Thou hast clothed this glorious party of Israel in the robe of virtue and distinguished them with a special gift, and made them the manifestation of "Verily, I have chosen you above all peoples." From that people Thou didst raise up Prophets and gather blessed souls beneath the shadow of the Most Great Banner. O Lord! Make manifest and evident that which Thou didst promise through the tongue of the Prophets, and make them successful and joyous through the gifts which Thou didst give them glad tidings of. Grant organization to this scattered people and bestow eternal glory upon this oppressed nation, that they may gather in the Holy Land which is the inheritance of their forefathers and with utmost glory engage in Thy praise and glorification.   AB01943

O King of Kings! Bless New York. Make the friends kind to one another. Sanctify the souls. Free the hearts. Illumine the realm of thought. Make the spirits joyous. Grant heavenly power and divine confirmation. Spread a merciful carpet that that city may become Baha-abundant, that New York may receive the blessing of the Abha Kingdom, that that land may become a supreme paradise, a divine garden, a heavenly orchard, and a merciful rose-garden. O King of Kings! Make Mrs. Krug a handmaiden of Baha, and make her illustrious daughter a brilliant light. Illumine that home and make that family the manifestations of endless favors, so that the handmaidens of the Merciful may arrange a feast with the utmost joy and fragrance and establish a celebration with complete delight and gladness.  AB08704

O Lord! Thou seest Nabil-i-Nabil clinging to Thy cord and holding fast to Thy robe and standing in service to Thy servants. I beseech Thee by Muhammad, Thy Beloved and Thy Chosen One, and by the ocean of His knowledge and the light of His countenance and the heaven of His wisdom and the sun of His grace, to make him assisted in that which will draw him near unto Thee. O Lord! Thou seest him speaking Thy praise; enable him to achieve that which will elevate the station of man in the contingent world. O Lord! Thou seest him in all conditions mindful of Thy verses, gladdened by Thy favors, and steadfast in Thy love amongst Thy servants. Strengthen him through Thy sovereignty, then ordain for him what befitteth Thy bounty and Thy bestowal. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.   BH01045

O God of Names and Creator of heaven! Thou knowest and seest that there hath come to the prison a letter from one of Thy loved ones, who hath held fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clung to the hem of Thy mercy and favors, who hath acknowledged Thy oneness in Thy days and confessed Thy singleness when most of Thy servants turned away from Thee. O Lord! Give him to drink, at all times, of Thy sealed wine, whose seal was broken by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting. Then cause to appear through him, in Thy service, that whereby the people of Thy realm shall turn unto Thee and those who were heedless in Thy days shall be awakened. O Lord! Even as Thou didst adorn the beginning of his letter with Thy verses, do Thou adorn his breast with the light of Thy wisdom. Then ordain for him the reward of attaining Thy presence. Verily Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH05189

O my God! O my God! These are servants who have turned their faces to Thy gracious countenance, who have followed Thy straight path and the mighty way, who fear not the assault of every sinful deceiver nor dread the taunts of any aggressive transgressor. They have rent asunder the veils, torn away the coverings, abandoned idols, and bid farewell to vain imaginings. They have turned to Thee with hearts as firm as towering mountains and souls as steadfast as immovable pillars, supplicating Thee with hearts overflowing with love and breasts expanded by the signs of Thy oneness amidst humanity. O Lord! Make them brilliant stars in the horizon of creation, radiant lamps in the realm of existence, lofty trees in the Abha Paradise, and surging waves from the ocean of faithfulness, that this region may be stirred by the holy breaths of Thy sanctity in this mighty cycle.   AB00255

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Thou seest and knowest that one of Thy loved ones hath sought the shore of the ocean of Thy mercy, and hath drunk the choice wine of recognition from the cup of Thy bounty, and hath attained unto the presence of the Wronged One. That which he hath sent and that which he hath desired was for naught save to manifest his sincerity, humility, meekness, and his adherence to Thy verses and Thy robe in Thy days, and to that which hath appeared from Thee. I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the Point through which the books of the world were distinguished, and by Thy Command whereby the nations were subdued, to make him a herald of Thy bounty unto Thy servants, and of the heaven of Thy generosity and the sun of Thy grace. O my Lord! Ordain for him that which will assist him in serving Thy Cause, then make him a champion of Thy Faith and a banner of Thy name amongst Thy servants.  BH06508

At this moment when it is near sunset and all the people of the world seek rest and joy, Abdul-Baha with utmost faithfulness is occupied with your remembrance and engaged in writing this letter. He seeks no rest, desires no repose, and takes not a moment's ease. Ever remembering the friends, he is like a surging ocean in tumult, and offers prayers for the maidservants of the All-Merciful: O Lord! Make these handmaidens honored in Thy Kingdom of Glory, and accept these maidservants at Thy Holy Threshold. Illumine their hearts and purify their spirits. Make fragrant their nostrils that they may become worthy of Thy Most Holy Court and engage in worship, service, supplication, and utter humility and need. May they become quickened through Thy remembrance and attain everlasting life through Thy love. Verily Thou art the Generous, Thou art the Merciful, and Thou art the Mighty, the Kind, the Ancient Lord.  AB09349

O Lord! These souls are Thy friends, and this gathering consists of Thy companions, and this assembly comprises Thy scattered ones who are stirred by the breeze of Thy favor and whose nostrils are perfumed by the sweet savors of Thy bounty. Manifest Thy mercy and grant solace and bounty. Set their hearts free and quicken their souls through Thy ever-increasing bestowals and gifts. Protect them beneath the shelter of Thy protection and grant them steadfastness in Thy mighty Cause and manifest sovereignty. Create them anew and breathe into them the spirit of detachment. Kindle the fire of love and unity in their hearts and consume the veils of diverse imaginings. Make them firm and steadfast, deep-rooted and flourishing. Open wide the gates of bestowal, pass round the cup of purity, adorn the feast of bounty, and send down the heavenly repast, that they may become celestial and divine. Thou art the All-Bountiful.   AB00730

O my Lord, my Hope, my Refuge, my Resort and my Shield! Thou seest me raising my hands and extending my palms in utter supplication, helplessness and lowliness toward the Kingdom of Mysteries, and calling upon Thee in private and in public, O my Chosen Lord, to shower all Thy mercy upon these righteous ones, to support these excellent souls through Thy power, and to gladden their breasts through the effulgence of Thy lights. O Lord and Object of my desire! Hasten to aid them, dispel their sorrows, rejoice their hearts, perfect their happiness, and complete their light, that they may arise with all their powers to serve Thee amidst Thy creation, spread abroad Thy signs among Thy creatures, scatter the pearls of Thy remembrance upon the heads of Thy servants, and string the gems of Thy knowledge upon the necks of those souls who are drawn to Thy manifest light and are enkindled with the fire of Thy love amongst the worlds.  AB01638

Glory be unto Thee, O God, Lord of all things and Creator of names! I beseech Thee by the Name through which Thou didst shatter the idols and dispel all vain imaginings, to immerse me in the ocean of certitude, O Lord of all religions. My Lord! Aid me in that which Thou hast willed through Thy sovereignty and revealed in Thy perspicuous Book. My Lord! This is a day wherein the pages of contingent being and the Books which Thou didst reveal unto Thy Messengers and chosen ones have been adorned. I beseech Thee not to withhold from me the outpourings of the ocean of Thy grace, nor to shut me out from the door which Thou hast opened unto all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth. My Lord! I am weak and have clung to Thy Name, the All-Powerful, the Almighty. Ordain for me from Thy bounty that which shall profit me in this world and the next. Verily, Thou art the Giving, the Bountiful, the Omnipotent, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH01075

'Abdu'l-Baha, in utmost humility and lowliness, supplicates at the Sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty that Isfahan may attain the utmost joy and delight, and Najafabad may become prosperous and flourishing. May each of those blessed souls receive the breath of the All-Merciful, and may every heart and conscience attain unto the Beloved.  AB12831
 
Lord, make them grateful birds in the garden of Thy mercy, warbling with the sweetest melodies in the meadows of praise to Thee, successful in performing righteous deeds among Thy creation, and banners unfurled in the firmament of certitude through Thy power and might.  AB12838
 
O honored pilgrim, Mirza Kazim, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God!  AB12840
 
