
O Lord! Assist them with the hosts of Thy power and might  BH08648

"protect him through Your safeguarding and sheltering care"  AB10810

We beseech God to protect His sheep from the wolves of the earth   BH09696

"We beseech God to preserve you from the evil of the oppressors."  BH03786

O Lord! Grant Thy servants shelter beneath the shadow of Thy grace.  AB04172

O my Lord! Protect her, then, within the fortress of Thy protection   BH10297

Assist Thy loved ones through the protection of Thy mighty stronghold  AB10718

protect him from the evil of discord and the thunderbolt of hypocrisy  AB09053

"He will deliver thee and He will save thee, as a grace from His presence"  BH03417

Through pure bounty preserve us, and withhold not Thy protection and aid.   AB05364

"My God, my God! Through Thy power, ordain for me a helper and protector."   BH03828

Protect them in the shelter of Thy favors from all that Thou dost not desire  AB09775

Grant these homeless ones shelter and refuge in the protection of Thy bounty.  AB01062

I beseech Thee by Thy power and might to protect Thy servants and handmaidens   BH09870

O Lord! Protect and preserve, lest the foot slip and reach the lowest depths.   AB04745

I pray for you and seek divine assistance and grace for you in all conditions.  ABU3125

O Lord! Protect him from hostile people and treat him with grace and beneficence.  AB12771

O Lord! ... preserve and protect him in the cave of Thy protection and safeguarding  AB12654

My God, my God! ... shield me from wavering and perturbation, O Thou Lord of Lords!  AB08491

O Lord! Protect them through Thy boundless favors in this world and the world to come.  AB07158

protect me from the evil of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs  BH05256

O Lord! Guard me with the eye of Thy care, protect me with Thy preservation and shelter  AB00499

Protect her from the assaults of the evil ones who call the people unto other than Thee.   BH09865

Protect them in the shelter of Thy protection from the fierce wolves and predatory beasts.  AB00931

O my Lord! I beseech Thee...to protect Thy loved ones from the dictates of self and passion  BH10788

"imploring Thee, by Thy sovereignty and might, to keep me safe in the shelter of Thy mercy"  BH10742

O Lord! Do Thou protect and shield it, and make it successful in winning Thy good-pleasure.  AB08050

I beseech Thee to protect Thy chosen ones from the evil of the oppressors among Thy creation  BH07686

Keep this self-sacrificing servant safe and protected in the shelter of Thy Kingdom of Abha   AB06150

"I beseech Thee by Thy Self to protect me from whatsoever is abhorrent to Thy good-pleasure."  BH08101

Furthermore I beseech Thee, O my God, to protect me from the harm of the enemies of Thy Self   BH06659

I beseech Thee to protect me under all conditions beneath the shadow of Thy Most Great Mercy.   BH04207

to ordain for Thy chosen ones that which will gladden their hearts and tranquilize their souls   BH09405

I beseech Thee...to ordain for this servant of Thine the good of the hereafter and of this world  BH10757

Accept us under the protection of Thy safeguarding and preserve us from stumbling and wavering.   AB11970

I entrust my soul to Thy safekeeping and protection, so protect it, O Protector of all the worlds  BH11465

Grant these servants a dwelling beneath the pavilion of Thy grandeur and the canopy of Thy glory   BH09084

Have mercy upon me through Thy grace and bounty, then preserve me from the hosts of the doubters.  BH08477

Then I beseech Thee, O my God...to withhold the evil of this youth from the head of Thy creation.  BH02878

I beseech Thee...to protect me from those who warred against Thy Self and disputed Thy sovereignty  BH09499

Keep them safe from the evil of the great temptation and protected from the impact of severe tests.  AB01786

O my Lord! Protect him in the sanctuary of Your protection and shelter him in the cave of Your care.  AB03898

Then protect him from every affliction and hardship through Thy power, Thy might and Thy sovereignty.  BH08236

I beseech Thee to protect me and bless me in Thy days. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH07352

O Lord! Be their friend and helper, and preserve these oppressed ones from the tyranny of the wicked.  AB06118

O Lord! Deal with her as befitteth her kinship with Thee, and guard her from whatsoever she abhorreth.  BH06578

Protect him from all destructive things and keep him far from calamities and guard him from falsehoods  AB02451

"Save me from the depths of the seas of tribulation, deliver me from the pit of hardship and adversity"   AB06502

O Lord! Guard him from the hands of the Covenant-breakers, preserve him from the evil of those who hate   AB00680

Then preserve us, O my Beloved, from every affliction and harm and all that Thy good-pleasure abhorreth.   BH02214

to protect Thy handmaidens who have turned toward Thy countenance and hearkened unto Thy call in Thy days   BH09373

My God, my God! Protect this Thy servant from the doubts of the cawers and the intimations of the infidels.  BH08454

Beseech ye God, exalted be His glory, that ye may be protected at all times from the evil of corrupt souls   BH08421

I will supplicate at the Abha Kingdom on behalf of all, seeking assistance, protection, shelter and bounty.  AB08567

Then preserve them, O my God, from the evil of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs.   BH09381

O Lord! Clothe this Thy servant with the Garment of the Most Great Bestowal and protect him from every evil!  AB11438

O loving Friend! Protect and preserve these helpless ones from strangers in the stronghold of Thy protection  AB07344

O Lord! Strengthen them through Thy sovereignty; then preserve them, O my God, beneath the shade of Thy mercy  BH08761

My God, my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant...protect me from the evil of Thine enemies.  BH03486

O unequaled Lord! For this helpless child be a protector! For this weak and sinful one be kind and forgiving.  AB10794

Grant us a dwelling in the shelter of Thy favors and give us an abode under the shade of Thy grace and bounty.  AB07519

Strengthen him with Thy divine confirmations in that remote region where Satanic whisperings have intensified   AB03555

I beseech Thee to assist me to preserve that which Thou hast bestowed upon me through Thy bounty and generosity  BH04952

I ask of Thee protection, assistance and safeguarding from every nocturnal visitor, injury and penetrating harm  AB10326

"O Gracious One! O Kind One! O Merciful One! O Compassionate One!" that one may remain protected and preserved.  AB04271

O God! Confer thou a shelter upon this person under Thy protection and surround him with Thy infinite Bounties!  AB11460

Then preserve him, O my Beloved, from every tribulation and hardship that might come between him and Thy beauty   BH10618

O Lord! Protect them through Thy generosity and favors, then cause them to enter the fortress of Thy protection.  BH08241

Preserve her, O my God, from the evil of every evil-doer encompassed by Thy knowledge and recorded in Thy Book.   BB00152

I beseech divine grace and bounty that He may preserve and protect you in the cave of His protection and shelter  AB09445

'Neath the shade of Thy protecting wings let me nestle, and cast upon me the glance of Thine all-protecting eye.  AB02866

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me, through Thy Most Exalted Pen, that which will preserve me from self and passion  BH09964

At all times implore the All-Merciful Lord that He may protect you and grant you a dwelling place in His presence   BH07033

Protect the oppressed from the evil of the oppressors and aid them through Your power that encompasses all worlds   AB01219

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the heaven of Thy grace to protect me from the evil of Thine enemies   BH07939

I beseech Thee... to ordain for me that which will preserve me from all else save Thee and draw me nigh unto Thee.   BH04910

I beseech Thee...to protect me from the evil of the enemies of Thy Self who have broken Thy covenant and testament   BH04237

I have ever beseeched and do beseech for each one protection, health, mercy, loving-kindness, blessing and bounty.   BH01604

I beseech Thee to protect me in all conditions and to ordain for me in Thy Kingdom that which beseemeth Thy majesty.  BH07797

Ordain for me, O my God, that which will protect me from the evil of Thine enemies and exalt me amidst Thy creation.   BH05784

I hope that through the special favors of the Greatest Name, all will remain safe and protected in the divine shelter  AB12753

O my Lord, my Adored One and my Desire! Lowly and suppliant, I implore Thee to shield me from the evil of the ungodly  AB10763

Make for him a way out in all affairs, assist him in all matters, remove from him sorrows and deliver him from grief   AB07168

I beseech Thee...to protect him, through the hosts of the seen and the unseen, from the oppressors among Thy creatures  BH10285

O Lord! Protect Thy manifest religion from the evil of the attacking apostates. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Great   AB01125

O Lord! I beseech Thee to send down upon me from the heaven of Thy grace that which will preserve me from Thine enemies.  BH07667

supplicating fervently at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty that He may guard thee in the stronghold of His protection  AB07027

O Lord! Ordain for him every good, and shield him from every harm. Verily, Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  AB10328

O Thou loving Lord! Keep this servant of the Threshold safe and secure from all afflictions in the stronghold of Thy grace  AB12481

Help, O my God, the weak children and feeble women and the poor widows and helpless orphans, through Thy bounty and mercy   AB01460

I beseech Thee by Thy Name not to abandon me unto myself. Guard me, by the sovereignty of Thy Names, from self and passion.  BH11288

All must today beseech the True One to preserve the cities of the unitarians through the hosts of the seen and the unseen.   BH02620

O Kind Lord! Preserve this newly-kindled candle in the lamp of Thy loving-kindness from the whirlwinds of contingent events  AB11385

he remembered you and beseeched God that that group be protected under divine protection and receive assistance and bounty.  AB03096

Then preserve me, O my God, from the evil of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and Thy verses and denied Thy right.   BH08050

Is there any Remover of difficulties save God? Praised be God! He is God! All are His servants and all abide by His bidding!   BB00623

Then preserve me, O my God, from the evil of Thine enemies and from the oppression of the aggressive ones among Thy servants.   BH07177

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who removest sorrows and causest rivers to flow, to protect me from the evil of the enemies of Thy Self  BH06688

I pray God that He may send down upon you blessings from heaven and protect your family from all grief and sorrow in this world  AB05431

guard me with the hosts of Thy protection... shield me from the arrows of the people of doubts aimed at me from all directions   AB02862

O Lord! Protect me within the stronghold of Thy mercy lest the arrows of them that have disbelieved in Thy signs affect my soul   BH07420

Then protect them, O my God, through the hosts of Thy unseen realm from the enemies of Thy Self who have encompassed the lands.   BH01224

O Lord! Guard him with the hosts of Thy unseen realm and Thy angels, and watch over him with the eye of Thy care and protection   AB03315

O Lord! Guard them within the shelter of Thy protection, cause them to abide beneath the cave of Thy preservation and safekeeping  AB09132

O Lord! Keep them safe within the stronghold of Thy protection, shelter them within the cave of Thy guardianship and preservation  AB09132

then beseech Him to protect thee and those who have believed from the cawing of every cawer and the oppression of every oppressor   BH10019

Ordain for me, through Thy grace and bounty, that which will preserve me from the doubts of such as have denied Thee and Thy signs  BH05863

O Lord! Protect them from the gloating of Thine enemies and guard them from the blame of those among Thy creation who detest Thee.  AB05028

Then protect me from the schemes of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs, and who have plotted against Thy Cause and Thy proof.  BH08949

O my Lord! Ordain for me through Thy bounty and grace that which will preserve me and exalt me in this world and the world to come   BH06973

I ask Thee, O God, my God, to protect the bearer of this white page from all evil and affliction, from every plague and pestilence.   BH10273

Then preserve them, O my God, from those who have denied the Dawning-Place of Thy revelation and the Dayspring of Thine inspiration.  BH09763

O Lord! Protect him from the arrows of doubts from those who follow the ambiguous verses and seek to divide the word of Your oneness  AB02112

O my God! Protect me beneath the shadow of Thy supreme loving-kindness. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH10790

protect Thy loved ones in the shadow of Thy protection, and then ward off from them the hands of evil through Thy dominion and might   BH03504

"I beseech assistance and bounty from the Beauty of Oneness that you may at all times be preserved safe under the protection of God."  AB07317

O Lord! I am fallen upon the dust, beseeching Thee, O Lord of Lords, to deliver that honored one from the persecution of the parties   AB12147

I beseech Thee by the arms of Thy power and the manifestations of Thy might to preserve them from the evil of the enemies of Thy Self   BH05998

O Lord! Guard him with the eye of Thy most bountiful care and kindness, and protect him in this journey from every calamity and trial.  AB09773

I beseech Thee... to clothe this Thy servant with the garment of Thy protection, the robe of Thy aid and the armor of Thy safeguarding  AB10231

Preserve them beneath the wing of Your oneness from severe tests and guard them in the shelter of Your mercy from the events of time.   AB01078

O Lord! Protect the lamp of Thy love from the winds of self and desire, then guard it through Thy conquering power and mighty strength.  BH11671

O my Lord! Grant this sinner a dwelling beneath the shade of the Blessed Tree, and preserve him safe and protected from all calamities.  AB10622

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the dawn and Sender of the winds, to protect him from the evil of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs.  BH09873

I beseech Thee to preserve it from stormy winds, and to move it, O my God, by the breezes of Thy Will and the fragrances of Thy Purpose   BH07670

O Lord! Keep this noble soul safe from the harm of every ignoble one, grant him shelter and refuge beneath the shade of the Blessed Tree  AB10218

O Lord! Have mercy on whoever holds fast to Thee and to Thy verses, and leave him not in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures.  BH10104

I hope that thou wilt remain protected from both physical and spiritual afflictions and be blessed in the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree.   AB04724

that Thou mayest guard these two noble children...within the protection of Thy shelter from the accidents of night and the predators of day  AB10806

O Lord! Protect Thy Afnan from the evil of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thy proof, turned away from Thy Manifestation and Thy signs  BH09949

Then write down for me from Thy Supreme Pen that which will preserve me from the evil of Thine enemies and draw me nigh unto Thy threshold.   BH02789

Protect me, then, from every wicked and mendacious aggressor, and from every debased and profligate assailant that feareth not the Day of [...]  AB00486

We beseech the Exalted Truth to preserve at all times that leaf of the Tree of the All-Merciful from the evil of the envious and the oppressors   BH10219

Preserve them, through Thy might and power and sovereignty, from the evil of those who turned away from meeting with Thee and denied Thy signs.   BH05190

I beseech Him, exalted be He, to preserve thee and them from every tribulation and calamity and to guard you through His bounty and generosity.   BH03423

O Lord! Protect Thy party from Thine enemies, then open before their faces the gates of generosity and bounty through Thy power and sovereignty   BH02245

My God, my God! Protect Thy servants from the evil of the barking ones and the hypocrites who have taken for themselves lords besides Thee.   BH08550

Then protect them, O my God, from the evil of Thine enemies, and ordain for them what Thou hast ordained for Thy trusted ones and Thy chosen ones   BH06415

O Lord! Leave me not to myself. Preserve me beneath the shadow of Your greatest mercy, then send down upon him the best of the last and the first.  BH02977

Preserve us, then, by Thy Most Great Name, Which Thou didst cause to overshadow such nations as lay claim to what Thou hast forbidden in Thy Book.  BH01969

preserve us from the arrows of doubts, grant us shelter beneath the shadow of Thy protection and safety, and keep us secure from tests and trials   AB08091

May God protect us and you from its evil, its deception and its dominion. Verily my Lord is kind to His servants and He has power over all things.  AB06080

O my Lord! Shelter me beneath the protection of Thy supreme mercy that I may find rest from all troubles, taking refuge at the gate of Thy mercy.   AB11474

I beseech Thee to preserve him and deliver him through Thy power and sovereignty. Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH06289

Ask thou God to protect His loved ones from the evil of these people and to make their hearts as blocks of iron in His irresistible and wise Cause   BH04830

I beseech Thee, O Lord of Names, to protect Thy party from the evil of these people, then assist them with the hosts of the unseen and the visible   BH01293

"I will pray for you and implore with utmost humility that in times of tests and trials you and all the friends may remain protected and preserved"  AB03389

O Lord! I implore Thee by Thy Self to shield them from every sorrow and grief and from whatsoever may hold them back from Thy most exalted horizon.   BH09728

Therefore, do Thou preserve him beneath the shadow of the wing of Thy oneness, and protect him within the fortress of Thy protection and safekeeping  AB10720

Set, then, the seal of Thine unerring protection on their hearts, O my Lord, lest perchance the remembrance of aught else except Thee enter therein.   BH08849

we supplicate at the Sacred Threshold of the All-Merciful that you may all be protected and preserved in the cave of His protection and safeguarding.   AB02875

I beseech Thee... that Thou protect Thy handmaidens from the evil of the people of the Bayan who have girded up their loins to lead Thy creation astray  BH10592

"O Lord of the world! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the atoms have testified, to preserve me beneath the shadow of Thy supreme providence."   BH07133

Then protect me, O my God, by the hosts of Thy power. Verily Thou art powerful over what Thou willest and verily Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Wise  BH07000

I beseech Thee...to preserve them from every affliction and illness and to guard them from the evil of fate and whatsoever might trouble their hearts.   BH04113

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to open a door before thy face and to rain down upon thee from the heaven of His grace the showers of mercy and blessing.   BH04886

Protect and safeguard that suppliant, deliver her from the whirlpool of transgression, and grant her asylum within the precincts of the most great mercy.  AB07230

I beseech Thee...to encompass Thy servant with the glance of Thine eye of loving-kindness and preserve him in the cave of Thy protection and safeguarding  AB09778

I render thanks to the Court of the Greatest Name that, praised be God, all have been and continue to be protected under the shadow of God's loving care.  AB11524

O Lord! Look upon them with the glances of Thy mercy and deliver them from the oppressors among Thy creation and the rebellious ones among Thy creatures.   BH09087

This lowly servant at all times beseeches the King of existence to protect that honored one from the evil of the associating, lying, and commanding souls.  BH00299

O Lord! I beseech You by Your supreme benevolence and by Your Most Great, Most Pure, Most Exalted Name to protect me through Your power and sovereignty...   BH04145

Then protect them, O my God, through Thy bounty which hath encompassed existence and by the light of Thy Cause through which the lands have been illumined.  BH03213

I beseech Thee by Thy resplendent signs and Thy decisive verses to protect me and Thy loved ones from the evil of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs.   BH08589

O God! Grant us a favor, bestow upon us a bounty, that we may remain protected and preserved, and become the recipients of Thy attention and consideration.   AB05318

preserve me from Thy tests which break backs and unveil the sins of the back-sliders and tend to disgrace the party of deception and the people of wickedness  AB04937

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy bounty to preserve for me what Thou hast given me. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the All-Bountiful, the Mighty, the All-Wise.  BH09145

Send down, then, upon them what will keep them safe from the danger of turning to any one but Thee, and from fixing their eyes upon aught else except Thyself.  BH07688

"I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Signs and Thy manifestations in the kingdom of creation to protect Thy loved ones through the hosts of wisdom and utterance"  BH05586

I beseech Thee by Thy Beauty, whose lights have encompassed all that was and shall be, that Thou protect Thy handmaiden from the evil of Satan and his hosts.   BH05415

O Lord! Remove from their midst the hand of persecution; protect them in the asylum of Thy Dominion and guard them in the Cave of Thy Preservation and safety.  AB02851

I beseech Thee by the suns of the heavens of Thy Revelation and the trees of Thy paradise and garden, to protect Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine enemies   BH10272

We beseech Thee to protect Thy loved ones and to rain down upon them from the heaven of generosity and the heaven of bounty the showers of grace and bestowal.   BH04002

O Lord! Decree for her that which will bring comfort to her eyes, then preserve her within the pavilion of Thy protection and the tabernacle of Thy safekeeping.  BH05076

I beseech divine grace and bounty that He may protect and preserve you in the shelter of His guardianship and protection, make you intimate with holy fragrances  AB09445

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subjugate the winds, to protect this servant who hath turned to Thee and held fast to the hem of Thy bounty.   BH03404

O Lord, in Thee do we place our hopes and from Thee do we seek aid, protection and assistance. O God, preserve us and forgive us and make us firm and steadfast.   AB06417

My God, my God! Strengthen the hearts of Thy servants through Thy power, lest the might of princes weaken them or the oppression of oppressors prevent them.   BH09113

Have mercy upon me and upon them that are in my company, through the wonders of Thy grace and power. Shield us, then, O my God, from the mischief of Thine enemies  BH08836

O Lord! Through Thy bounty and generosity, protect me and those who believe in Thee and Thy verses from all fire, for verily Thou art the Bountiful, the Generous.  BB00369

O Lord, protect her grandchild in the cave of Your protection and shelter, and guard the apple of her eye beneath the shadow of Your preservation and safekeeping   AB07424

My Lord, my Lord! Guard me from the evil of my self and my transgression, and protect me with the eye of Thy care and shelter from my abasement and disobedience.   AB00681

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the Wronged One Who hath suffered in Thy path what none in Thy dominion hath suffered, to protect Thy leaves from the winds of trials.  BH10242

I beseech Thee, O my God, by them and by the sighs which their hearts utter in their separation from Thee, to keep them safe from the mischief of Thine adversaries  BH09874

to so attract their hearts that the arrows of the enemies and the spears of the wicked ones shall not affect them, nor shall the breezes of destiny overturn them.   BH09388

O my Lord! Protect us and Thy servants through Thy generosity and bounty. Verily, Thou art the most powerful of the powerful and the most generous of the generous.  BH01209

'Abdu'l-Baha will pray at the Sacred Threshold of the Abha Beauty that the survivors remain protected and preserved, and the oppressed ones guarded and remembered   AB00909

O my Lord! I am the weak one who hath clung to the cord of Thy strength; preserve me through Thy bounty and sovereignty from whatsoever is unworthy of Thy presence.  BH07466

O my God and my Lord! Preserve me within the shelter of Thy protection... Then rain down upon me from the clouds of Thy bounty the good of this world and the next.   BH03721

My God, my God! Thou seest the onset of sorrows and the assault of every ignorant oppressor against every servant who has taken shelter beneath the shade of Thy mercy  AB04907

Protect them from the arrows of the oppressors and the spears aimed in hatred. Guard them with the eye of Your care and encompass them with the glances of Your mercy.  AB00789

O my God! O my God! Illumine the hearts of Thy servants with the light of Thy knowledge, then preserve them from the wolves of the earth through Thy command and will.   BH06998

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to make it a lamp before thy face and a light in thy presence, that it may preserve thee from the darkness of the earth and its tyrants   BH03896

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the earth and heaven, that Thou protect Thy loved ones from the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures   BH02309

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the End, by Thy Name, the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, to protect Thy servants and handmaidens from the mischief of the people of the Bayan  BH10524

Then preserve him from the harm of those who have disbelieved in Thee and Thy signs, and inscribe him among the people of Baha who are established upon the Crimson Ark.  BH04747

protect Thy servants from the evil of Satan and from those who have taken their idle fancies as their god. Then guard them, O my God, within the stronghold of Thy care   BH03110

I have entered into God's protection and God's sanctuary from the evil of all afflictions... I seek refuge in God, the True One, from the evil of every night-visitant.   BB00610

Moreover I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to protect me from every tribulation and hardship, and to enable me to do what Thou lovest and approvest.   BH06200

O my Lord! Guard this handmaiden of Thine with the eye of Thy care, protection and preservation. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Protector, the Guardian, the Ancient.   AB05048

Thou art my refuge in my terror, my shelter in my anguish, my fortress in my distress, and my help in my desperation...O Lord! Raise me up to Thee, bring me before Thee   AB00445

Protect that household of the love of God beneath the shadow of Thy providence from every affliction, and safeguard that family of faith in the shelter of Thy protection.  AB11201

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name, through which the Dove hath warbled and the Divine Lote-Tree hath spoken, to protect me beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy oneness  BH09506

Beseech the Almighty Friend with utmost humility and supplication to protect you and other maidservants and handmaidens of God beneath the shade of the Tree of Providence   BH08737

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the lights of Thy holy Oneness and the mysteries of Thy divine Unity, to preserve Thy chosen ones after me lest their feet slip from Thy path.  BH02467

I beseech Thee at this time, O My God, by Thyself to protect Him from her and from the harm of Thy creatures. Thou art verily the Powerful, the Mighty and the Beneficent.   BH05251

I beseech Thee by the fragrance of Thy locks and the sweet perfumes of Thy robe to draw me nigh unto Thee and protect me from the evil of the oppressors among Thy creatures  BH08959

Moreover, I entreat Thee by Thy Self to protect Thy chosen ones from the evil of Thine enemies and to ordain for them that which shall gladden their eyes through Thy bounty  BH06631

Grant this helpless servant refuge and shelter in the protection of Thy Divine Unity, and bestow upon him a dwelling and habitation beneath the shade of Thy Loftiest Tree.   AB05690

O my God! Have mercy upon us through Thy generosity, then preserve us through Thy grace and care...then cause us to take refuge in the shadow of Thy Most Great Infallibility  BH03976

"I ask Thee by Thy Messengers and Thy chosen ones and by Him whereby the standard of Thy divine unity hath been implanted amidst Thy servants, to shield them by Thy bounty."  BH03562

"I beseech Thee, O Deliverer of Moses and Supporter of Abraham, to protect him with the hosts of the unseen and deliver him from those who cast Thy Cause behind their backs"  BH09163

make supplication and lamentation, weep and be restless, that you may remain protected and preserved under the shadow of the protection and care of His Holiness the Most One  AB05568

I beseech Thee to preserve me, through Thy bounty and power, from the evil of Thy creatures who have cast behind them Thy Book and have clung to vain imaginings in Thy days.   BH07643

O God, my God! I beseech Thee by the light of Thy Cause and the fire of Thy Lote Tree to protect Thy loved ones and ordain for them what Thou hast promised them in Thy Book.   BH02315

O Compassionate Lord! Keep these souls protected and preserved in the shelter of Thy protection... Free them from every blow and harm, and grant them a refuge in Thy shelter.  AB10225

O my Lord, protect them within the shelter of Thy protection, assist them with Thy help and loving-kindness, and guard them in the strongholds of Thy preservation and custody  AB02312

Lowly and suppliant, I implore Thee to shield me from the evil of the ungodly and to withhold me not from the shade of the Sacred Tree, nor from the Voice of Thy Pen of Glory.  BH09725

O Lord! The men are Thy servants and the women are Thy handmaidens, and all else besides them are Thy creation and within the grasp of Thy power. Protect them through Thy grace  BH10579

Ordain for me that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and preserve me from those who have denied Thy proof, violated Thy Covenant, rejected Thy signs and disputed Thy testimony   BH09721

I beseech Thee...to preserve this one who hath believed in Thee and in Thy mighty signs...and preserve him, O my God, in the depths of the seas and their waves and their billows  BH09442

I beseech Thee by the Manifestations of Thy Self and by Thy power which hath conquered Thy heaven and Thy earth, to protect me from the harm of the idolaters among Thy servants.  BH06691

Send down, therefore, O my Lord, upon me and upon my loved ones that which will protect us from the mischief of those that have repudiated Thy truth and disbelieved in Thy signs.  BH07113

"O Protector! O All-Seeing! Protect me by Thy safeguarding power and aid me through Thy might and power. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Powerful, and worthy to answer prayer."  BH05184

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy face to protect Thy servants from the evil of self and passion, and to illumine them with the lights of guidance and righteousness   BH03605

We beseech Thee...to protect us from the evil of Thine enemies and to ordain for us the reward of meeting Thee. Verily Thou art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth.  BH02276

Protect him, O my God, from before him and from behind him, from his right and his left, from above his head and beneath his feet, and from every quarter that pertaineth unto him  BB00257

My God, my God! I beseech Thee...to assist me to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book. Then protect me from the evil of the idolaters among Thy creatures.  BH07949

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name through which trembling seized the tribes, the thunder lamented and the clouds wept, to protect Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine enemies  BH06802

I supplicate Thee to assist Thy righteous ones to act in accord with Thy good-pleasure. Then sanctify them, O GOD, from that which would soil the hem of their garments in Thy Day!  ABU1708

I have turned unto Thee and desired from the wonders of Thy bounty that which will preserve me from the evil of Thine enemies and guard me from the oppressors among Thy creatures.   BH05258

Protect Thou, O God, whosoever learneth this prayer by heart and reciteth it in the day-time and in the night season. Verily Thou art God, the Lord of creation, the All-Sufficing.   BB00372

"Constantly I implore and beseech and beg for the favors of the Self-Sufficient Lord, that He may immerse those true friends in the sea of favors and protect them from the oppressors"  AB06740

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy light through which the valley flowed and earth and heaven were illumined, to preserve this handmaiden of Thine from vain imaginings and idle fancies.   BH06189

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Self, since Thou hast guided me through Thy bounty and singled me out for Thy love, to preserve me from the hints of the idolaters among Thy creatures.  BH03030

O God of the worlds and Creator of the nations! We beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to protect Thy lands from Thine enemies and Thy countries from the oppressors among Thy servants.   BH01169

O Lord! Protect Thy male and female servants from the darts of idle fancies and vain imaginings, then give them to drink of the Salsabil of Thy knowledge through the hands of Thy grace.   BH04230

O Kind Lord! As Thou hast granted worthy guidance and freely given bounty, shelter us in Thy protection and grant us awareness. Keep us safe from strangers and protected from the wicked   AB06753

O Lord! Take them not to task for the deeds of the foolish ones, the heedlessness of the ignorant, the tyranny of the base, the discord of the vile, and the hypocrisy of the simple ones   AB02856

I beseech Thee by the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name to protect those whom Thou hast chosen for Thyself and made the leaves of this Tree which hath been raised up by Thy command.   BH10828

"I beseech Thee...that Thou protect this servant from every affliction and decree, and from every epidemic and plague, and from whatsoever tribulations and hardships may arise in the earth."  BH11063

O Lord! Guard them with the eye of Thy loving-kindness in the shadow of Thy protection and preservation, and shelter them in the stronghold of Thy care from the evil ones among Thy creatures.  AB04621

Then protect us, O Thou Who art the Beloved of creation and the Desire of invention, by Thy supreme greatness from those whom Thou hast made to be the manifestations of the slinking whisperer   BH02777

I implore Thee, O my Lord, by Thy name out of which all the treasures of the earth were brought forth, to shield me from the hints of such as have disbelieved in Thee and repudiated Thy truth.   BH06429

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom of Names, by Thy Most Great and Most Glorious Name, to aid Thy loved ones to such steadfastness as no intimations of the polytheists... shall prevent them   BH03118

Then ordain for them that which shall preserve them from the croaking of every croaker, the might of every oppressor, the doubts of every learned one, and the insinuations of every wicked one.   BH02826

I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made the Lord of all names to send down upon us that which will protect us from the conditions of Thy creation and the vain imaginings of Thy servants   BH09858

Shield, I pray Thee, O my Beloved, my heart's Desire, Thy servant who hath sought Thy face, from the darts of them that have denied Thee and from the shafts of such as have repudiated Thy Truth   BH07116

The people of God must, in the nights and days, beseech the Truth, exalted be His glory, to protect the loved ones of this Most Great Revelation from the vain imaginings of the past and future.   BH05432

O Lord! Thou seest that they have no refuge save Thee and no shelter except in Thee. Do Thou, therefore, O my God, deliver them from the hands of the enemies, and preserve them through Thy power   BH09878

O my Lord! Guard her with the eye of Thy care and behold her with the glance of Thy merciful Presence. Verily, Thou art the Protector, the Guardian, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.  AB10505

O God! Protect Thy leaves from the transgressors amidst Thy handmaids...Protect her then from the stones of the suspicions of other women and from the darts of the vain imaginations of the sinful.  BH04427

Then preserve, O my God, by Thy binding command and Thy Most Great Name, Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine enemies. Then grant them every good thing sent down in Thy Book.   BH01397

My God, my God! Adorn my head and the heads of Thy loved ones with the crowns of detachment and their temples with the raiment of godliness. Thou, verily, hast power to do what Thou willest.   BH00608

My God, My God! Thou seest Thy Afnan in the hands of the rebellious among Thy creatures and the oppressors among Thy people. Preserve them through Thy power and sovereignty and might and strength.  BH02970

Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beg of Thee by Thy name, the Most Merciful, to protect Thy servants and Thy handmaidens when the tempests of trials pass over them, and Thy manifold tests assail them.  BH08846

Beseech thou God to preserve the pearls of the ocean of faith and grant them shelter beneath the Tree of security and protection. Verily He is powerful over all things and worthy to answer prayer.   BH07960

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the sighs of Thy Baha and by His tears to protect Thy Book from the oppressors who desired to erase it in Thy days. O my Lord! Aid them not in what they intended.   BH05363

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst deliver the sincere from the deniers and preserved the knowing from the ignorant...to preserve him who hath turned unto Thee and recognized Thee   BH02248

I beseech Thee by Thy name the Preserver, and by Thy name the Helper, and by Thy name the Triumphant, to protect them from the oppression of every remote oppressor and every obstinate transgressor.   BH05083

O Lord! Shield them through Thy power, preserve them within the protection of Thy guardianship and shelter...Protect them from overwhelming attack and preserve them from the dominion of the ignoble.  AB12173

I beseech Thee by the Most Exalted Word and the Most Great Sign to protect me from the evil of Thine enemies and to ordain for me the good of this world and the next, through Thy grace and generosity.  BH08936

Then protect him from nocturnal occurrences and diurnal predators and from the backbiting, defamation and evil suggestions of the wicked. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Glorious, the All-Compelling.   AB01725

O Lord! Fear of Thine enemies hath encompassed us; transform it into assurance from Thee and tranquility from Thy presence. Weakness hath seized us from all directions; transform it through Thy power.   BH00589

O God our Lord! Protect us through Thy grace from whatsoever may be repugnant unto Thee and vouchsafe unto us that which well beseemeth Thee... O God our Lord! Protect us through the potency of Thy might  BB00593

O Lord! Protect Thou Thy beloved ones and make them delighted. Make the house of our hearts prosperous through firmness and steadfastness. Let the endeavours of the friends bear fruits and make us happy.  AB08494

I ask Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made the King of all names to protect me by Thy power and Thine omnipotence from all calamity and all that is repugnant to Thee and all that is contrary to Thy Will.  BH10889

I beseech Thee, O God of all who are in earth and heaven and Who gazest upon the horizon of Thy Most Glorious Name, to preserve him through Thy protection and safekeeping from the arrows of Thine enemies.  BH09390

Guard them from the evil of men and what Satan whispers in the breasts of the believers. Send down upon them the angels of the heavens and earth to preserve them by Thy leave and guard them by Thy command  BB00362

O Lord! Protect me through Thy sheltering care from every trace of aught save what I desire, and guard me through Thine eye of protection and preservation from every affliction that Thou dost not approve.  AB11850

O Lord! Protect it from the tempests of tests and the severe winds of trials in this time when the trees of souls have been uprooted and torn from their foundations with a force that has bewildered minds.  AB11929

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the light of Thy countenance and the breezes of Thy Revelation, to preserve me through Thy power and Thy sovereignty, lest the tempests of trials in Thy days cause me to fall.  BH10370

Then write down for them that which will draw them nigh unto the sanctuary of Thy holiness, and send down upon them that which will preserve them from the promptings of the polytheists among Thy creation.   BH08016

Then protect them from the hosts of the oppressors who have broken Thy Covenant and Thy Testament, who have denied Thy proof and Thy evidence, who have disputed Thy signs and have warred against Thy Self.   BH01522

I beseech Thee to preserve me, through the hosts of the seen and the unseen, from the evil of every cawing raven, from the oppression of every oppressor, and from the harm of every remote and ignorant one.  BH00500

I beseech Thee by the sweetness of Thy utterance, the manifestations of Thine infallibility, and the evidences of Thy power and might, to protect Thy chosen ones beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy Cause.   BH05776

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy servants in that which befitteth Thy days. Then aid, O my God, him who hath turned unto Thee and held fast unto Thy cord and done that which Thou didst command him in Thy Book.  BH10522

I beseech Thee, O King of Kings and Mover of the celestial sphere, by Thy Most Great Name, to send down from the clouds of Thy grace that which will manifest the station of Thy chosen ones among the nations.  BH08499

"O Lord, my God! I beseech Thee by this Day, and by Thy most consummate Name through which the Most Great Ocean hath surged, to protect the people of Baha from them that have disbelieved in Thy mighty signs."  BH00421

I beseech Thee by Him through Whom Thou didst raise up the standards of Thy guidance and establish the banners of Thy singleness, to aid whosoever seeketh Thine aid and to protect whosoever seeketh Thy protection   BH11276

Do Thou clothe the hearts of Thy loved ones with the armor of steadfastness and assurance, that the arrows of the intimations of those who have disbelieved in the Sovereign of all possibility may not affect them.   BH10280

I beseech Thee, O Thou the Desire of the world and the Beloved of the nations, by the Most Great Name, that Thou protect me from the fire of hatred which hath been kindled in the hearts of the people of the Bayan.  BH10150

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the realm of divinity soared and the world of humanity was adorned, to ordain for me through the Pen of Thy bounty that which will protect me from the evil of Thine enemies   BH08872

O Lord! Thou seest the one who hath heard Thy sweetest call and turned with his heart to Thy most exalted horizon. Ordain for him from the Pen of Destiny that which shall profit him in all the worlds of Thy worlds.  BH07452

Therefore I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of earth and heaven, to behold Thy servants and handmaidens with the glances of the eyes of Thy mercy and not to leave them to themselves for less than a moment   BH06744

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy knowledge which none hath known save Thyself, to preserve me and Thy servants from the doubts of the baying ones, the allusions of the heedless and the clamor of the deniers.   BH02424

We are disturbed - grant us rest and tranquility. We are abased - shed upon us the light of glory. We are fallen - be our helper. We are grieved - bestow gladness. We are depressed - grant us fervor and enthusiasm.  AB09497

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Speaking, the Manifest, which none hath known save Thee, to protect me from the evil of Thine enemies and to ordain for me that which will assist me to serve Thy Cause   BH06457

I beseech Thee, O Mystery of existence and Controller of both the unseen and the visible, to protect Thy loved ones and chosen ones from the evil of those who have turned away from Thy horizon and disputed Thy signs.   BH06199

I hope that through the grace of the Blessed Beauty you may ever be stirred by the breeze from the rose-garden of His bounty, and that night and day you may supplicate and seek aid and protection from His Divine Unity  AB11367

Therefore, O my God, protect him through Thy bounty, then aid him through Thy grace, and deprive him not from Thy gate. Then send down upon him, O my God, that which will prosper his affairs in this world and the next.  BH10281

O Lord! The winds have assailed the lamp of Thy justice and the waves have beaten against the ark of Thy Cause. I beseech Thee...to ordain for Thy loved ones that which shall protect them from the evil of Thine enemies  BH08498

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst protect Him Who conversed with Thee from the evil of the Pharaoh of the age, to protect them that seek Thee from those who are moved by the winds of self and passion   BH07691

I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made the cause of the life of the world and the greatest means for the salvation of the nations, that Thou protect us through Thy power and sovereignty and might and dominion   BH04987

O my Lord! Protect this sinful servant from the evil of the doubts of the wicked ones, shelter him beneath Thy protection and care, give him to drink from the cup of Thy favors, and sustain him with heavenly sustenance  AB09204

We make mention of the friends in that land and beseech Him to enable each one to attain unto that which He hath promised in His Book, and to protect them all from the evil of those who reject and who spread corruption.   BH05636

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name in Thy Later Manifestation that Thou protect me from the evil of every Satan and the call of every calf and the guile of every impostor and the filth of every wretched polytheist   BH03095

Then preserve, O my God, this servant who hath clung to the handle of Thy love and sought refuge in Thy presence and protection, for in Thy hand is the kingdom of all things and Thou art, verily, powerful over all things.  BH10617

I implore Thee, O Beloved of my heart and the Object of my soul's adoration, to shield them that love me from the faintest trace of evil and corrupt desires. Supply them, then, with the good of this world and of the next.  BH07117

I entreat Thee, O Thou Quickener of the mouldering bone, Who didst shed the light of Thine effulgence unto Moses, to shelter Thy loved ones, man and woman alike, beneath the shelter of Thy sovereignty and heavenly favors.  BH07672

O Lord! Change my weakness into strength through Thy power, and my agitation into tranquility through Thy assurance, in such wise that the mutterings of the oppressors and the clamoring of the deniers may not hold me back   BH08367

O my God! Thou seest me in the serpent's mouth, and witnessest how it stingeth me at every moment and instant...Therefore, O my God, do Thou help me through the sovereignty of Thy help, and preserve me from this affliction  BH10527

O Lord! Remove from him this poisonous cup, gather his scattered affairs, unite his dispersed ones across the horizons, open before his face the gates of blessings, multiply for him good deeds, increase his benevolent acts  AB01861

O Lord, Lord! Shield Your loved ones within Your impregnable fortress and Your mighty stronghold. Look upon them with the eye of Your care and protection, preserve them through the glances of Your shelter and guardianship   AB00886

Separate me from them, O Thou in Whose hand is the dominion of command and creation and the kingdom of the heavens and earth. Thou doest what Thou willest through Thy power and ordainest what Thou desirest through Thy Will.  BH00160

Night and day I supplicate and beseech at the Threshold of the All-Knowing God, and I beg assistance and bounty for Nasru'l-Malakut that he may remain protected and preserved under divine protection and attain eternal glory  AB03117

I beseech Thee, O my God, not to leave me to myself, then preserve me from the evil of Satan and his hosts, and send down upon me that which will sever me from all else save Thee and render me independent of all except Thee.  BH11729

I beseech Thee and implore the might of Thy Self-Subsistence to guard Thy servant who hath arisen to serve Thee beneath the shadow of Thy merciful wings, and to protect Thy obedient servant in the fortress of Thy safekeeping.  AB05444

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the fragrance of Thy mercy was wafted throughout all lands, to protect me beneath the shadow of Thy grace and bounty and to ordain for me that which is best in Thy Book.   BH09497

Protect Thy friends from the evil of Thine enemies, then assist them with the hosts of Thy power and Thy sovereignty, then make their every deed a lamp amidst the deeds of those on earth, that darkness may be changed to light.   BH03062

O my God! I am she who hath turned unto the Qiblih of all horizons. I beseech Thee to preserve me from the glories of them that are veiled, and to deliver me unto Thyself. Verily, Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful ones.  BH10659

O my Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thee and holding fast to Thy cord. Do Thou preserve me from the evil of Thine enemies and every barking dog that hath risen to harm Thee and prevented Thy servants from turning unto Thee.   BH06103

Protect me in my sleep and wakefulness, and in all the worlds of Thy Command and Creation, in my absence and presence, in my beginning and end, in my outward and inward being, that I may act only in the ways of Thy good-pleasure  BB00011

I beseech Thee...to preserve me from every affliction and evil and pestilence and malady, and from the arrows of the intimations of the heedless and the swords of the allusions of those who turn away and the denial of the deniers  BH08823

I beseech Thee, O King of names and Creator of earth and heaven, by Thy clouds of mercy to send down upon Thy loved ones that which will draw them nigh unto Thee and cause them to dwell near Thy mercy in every world of Thy worlds.  BH08155

O Ever-Abiding One! Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee... that Thou protect the bearer of this blessed leaf, then him who readeth it, then him who hearkeneth unto it, then him who passeth by the house wherein it resideth  BH00870

O God! By the right of this blessed dust and the diffused fragrances and the brilliant lights and the radiant beams and the sweet aromas - preserve and protect Your servants from every harm and keep them safe from every tribulation.  AB01463

I beseech Thee...that Thou protect Thy servants who have turned unto Thee and believed in Thy mighty signs and who have desired this most exalted station, from those who have disbelieved in the Manifestation of Thy most exalted Self.  BH02534

O my God, and my Lord, and my Creator, and my Master! I beseech from the ocean of Thy bounty that Thou wouldst cause this tender sapling in the garden of Thy love to drink from the living waters, and protect it from the autumn winds.   BH08558

I beseech Thee, O Ocean of Generosity, by Thy Most Great Name, to make known to those who hate the fruits of their deeds and actions. Then enable them to turn back unto Thee. Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.  BH03502

Therefore, O God, do Thou protect all Thy loved ones through Thy power and majesty, Thy grandeur and sovereignty, Thy exaltation and loftiness, Thy self-subsistence and glory, Thy eternity and might, Thy sufficiency and transcendence.   BB00252

O Lord! Protect the sincere ones from the arrows of doubt and the suspicions of souls who shoot in the dark. Make hearts mirrors of mysteries, eyes delighted by witnessing the lights, and spirits attracted to the kingdom of mysteries.   AB00089

I beseech Thee, O Lord of all beings and the One mentioned in the heart of Baha, to adorn Thy servants with the ornament of justice and fairness that they may read Thy verses and ponder Thy clear proofs and what hath appeared from Thee   BH02543

O my God! I beseech Thee to protect me and those who believe in the Bayan from the tree of negation and all that pertaineth unto it, and to grant me that which Thou hast ordained in the tree of affirmation and all that pertaineth unto it.  BB00143

I have supplicated at the threshold of the Lord of the Kingdom on behalf of the friends in those parts, that they may be preserved from tests and protected from vain imaginings, and that day by day they may grow firmer and more steadfast.  AB01260

O my God! I have turned with my whole being unto Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy grace to shelter me beneath the pavilions of Thy bounty and the tabernacle of Thy glory. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling.   BH05901

Therefore write down, concerning my right and the right of those who seek You with justice, O People of Grace, whatsoever power and might You possess, for verily I declare You are sufficient unto me, sufficient unto me in every condition.   BB00340

O Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones among the wicked ones of Thy creation. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the fire of Thy wrath was kindled and the flames of Thy anger were ignited, to seize those who have oppressed Thy loved ones.   BH02533

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy First-ness, which is exalted above all things, to protect from the Tree of Negation and all that pertaineth unto it, through Thy power over whatsoever Thou willest. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   BB00148

O my God! Thou beholdest us in the cloud of Thy divinity, therefore aid us through Thy mercy, admit us into the sea of Thy might, shelter us with the shelter of Thy generosity, forgive us through Thy kindness, and regard us with Thy glance.  BB00055

I call upon Thee, O my God, by Thy name the Powerful, and by Thy name the Preserver, and by Thy name the Helper, that Thou mayest make me safeguarded from the suggestions of them that have turned away and from the darts of the heedless ones.   BH09923

O Lord, take them not to task for the sins of others. Shine upon them the lights of Your pardon and forgiveness, Your grace and mercy and favor, and [ward off] from them every affliction, hardship and illness. Verily You are the All-Merciful.  AB06013

O God, my God, I ask Thee by Thy name whereby Thou didst protect Abraham from the fire and Moses from Pharaoh and Baha from Yahya, to guard me from the wicked ones among Thy creatures. Thou, verily, art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Forgiving   BH08672

Therefore, O my God, send down upon them that which will turn them toward Thee. Then remove this youth who hath risen against Thee completely, and those who follow him in his desires, that Thy holy land may be purified from these unbelievers.   BH00295

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Most Great Name, the All-Glorious, the Most Glorious, and by the Ultimate Tree, the Most Exalted, the All-Exalted, that Thou protect the bearer of this white leaf from all evil, calamity, plague and pestilence.   BH07662

O my Lord! Protect this sinful servant from the evil of the doubts of the wicked ones, and keep him safe beneath the shade of Thy protection and aid. Give him to drink from the cup of Thy favors and grant him sustenance from the heavenly table.  AB09204

O Lord! Protect Thy servants, guard their tongues from every word that opposeth Thy good-pleasure, purify their mouths from mentioning aught but good regarding Thy loved ones, preserve their hearts from the thought of censuring Thy faithful ones  AB01326

I entreat Thee by Thy power through which Thou didst protect Thy loved ones from the wayward and the perverse and from every contumacious oppressor, and every wicked doer who hath strayed far from Thee, to keep me safe by Thy bounty and Thy grace.  BH10688

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy power to protect Thy chosen ones from the oppression of those who have cast Thy Book behind their backs and have acted according to their own desires in Thy lands and Thy realm.  BH09622

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Name, whereby the limbs of the idolaters were made to quake, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen that which will profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds and preserve me from the evil of Thine enemies.   BH09604

O my God, my Adored One, my Desire! With utter helplessness and supplication I beseech Thee to protect this servant from the evil of the croakers, and deprive me not of the shade of the divine Lote-Tree and the shrill voice of the Most Exalted Pen.   BH07605

"Glorified art Thou, O my God! ... I beseech Thee by that Name through which grace hath appeared from the Dayspring of Thy favors, that Thou protect this servant who hath attained unto the presence of the Sovereign of Thy oneness at every daybreak."  BH06219

This is Thy servant whom the winds of the mercy of Thy name, the All-Merciful, have stirred, and whom Thou hast delivered from the hosts of Satan, and whom the hands of Thy power have taken until Thou didst cause him to enter the stronghold of faith.  BH09583

O my Lord! I beseech Thee to preserve me from the arrows of idle fancies and vain imaginings, then cause me to drink from the Kawthar of certitude by Thy bounteous hand, O Thou in Whose grasp lieth the kingdom of the realms of earth and heaven.   BH08393

I beseech Thee by Thy call between earth and heaven, and by Thy sovereignty which hath subdued all things, that Thou wilt preserve me from the doubts of Thine enemies and the allusions of those who have turned away from Thy Cause among Thy creatures.  BH03114

I beseech Thee, by Thy Most Great Name, through which all created things were rent asunder and the whole creation was shaken, to send down from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will purge them from every ordeal and from whatever is hateful to Thee.  BH01693

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Preserve us from what lieth before us and behind us, and from our right and our left, and from above our heads and beneath our feet, lest we witness on that day what would grieve us, but rather what would gladden our hearts.  BB00004

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Name through which Thou didst adorn the kingdom of names and didst open the door of Thy grace to all who are in earth and heaven, that Thou change agitation to tranquility, and weakness to strength, and despair to hope.  BH05191

I beseech Thee by the sweet-scented breezes of Thy verses and the mysteries of Thy Books, Thy Scrolls and Thy Tablets, to protect me from the evil of Thine enemies who disbelieved in Thee and in what Thou didst send down from the heaven of Thy bounty.   BH04601

O my God! Having called me unto Thee and caused me to enter the pavilion of Thy Cause, deprive me not, through Thy bounty, then preserve me from the schemes of every schemer and the devices of every deceiver and the call of every lying pretender.   BH03982

I beseech Thee, O Sovereign of existence and Educator of the seen and unseen, to protect Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine enemies. Then assist them through the manifestations of Thy power and might, and the dawning-places of Thy strength and will.  BH00042

Immeasurably exalted art Thou, O Lord! Protect us from what lieth in front of us and behind us, above our heads, on our right, on our left, below our feet and every other side to which we are exposed. Verily Thy protection over all things is unfailing.   BB00490

All must call out from the depths of their hearts unto the Self-Subsisting Lord and supplicate that perchance He may show mercy from the ocean of His grace and the sun of His bounty, and protect the believers in unity from the evil of the heedless ones.   BH08009

O Lord! Remove evil from him and leave him not to drown in the greatest depth of tribulations and the mightiest ocean of afflictions. Grant him bounties and reveal to him hidden things and protect him from death in the shelter of Thy greatest protection.   AB00502

Protect him from the arrows of the contentious ones and the spears of the people of sedition and corruption. Guard him in the cave of Your protection from the taunts of the frivolous, the whisperings of the base, and the insinuations of the forsaken ones.   AB11673

I beseech Thee by the power that hath encompassed all things, and by Thy command which dominateth all who are in earth and heaven, to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty upon Thy loved ones that which shall preserve them from the evil of Thine enemies.   BH06891

Preserve me, O my God, from the promptings of Satan, then turn me toward Thy beauteous countenance and send down upon me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy near servants. Verily Thou art powerful to do what Thou willest and Thou art wise over all things.  BH02860

The hope of these yearning ones at the threshold of the Divine Unity is that that beloved one may remain protected in the shadow of the preservation and protection of the Merciful Lord from the arrows of souls and the affairs of those who are other than God.  AB09031

Then ordain, O my God, for Thy loved ones who have aided Thy Cause through wisdom and utterance and have acted according to what Thou hast commanded them in the Books and Tablets, that which shall protect them from the wolves of the earth and its wicked ones.  BH03341

O Lord! Thou seest them between the fangs of wolves, inasmuch as they have taken to themselves no helper other than Thee and no protector besides Thee. Ordain for them that which shall render them among those who know no fear and on whom no sorrow shall fall.  BH01432

O Lord! Have mercy upon my weakness, my lowliness, my poverty and my need. Protect me through Thy grace and preservation, and let not the hands of calamities play with me, causing my limbs to tremble, my unity to be scattered, and my gathering to be dispersed.  AB05012

I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Name through which Thou hast distinguished between all things created between earth and heaven, that Thou preserve him in this world from turning to any but Thee, and in the world to come cause him to dwell nigh unto Thy mercy.   BH08266

I entreat Thee, by Thy Name which Thou hast ordained to be the spirit of all names that are in the kingdom of names, to shield us from the whisperings of those who have turned away from Thee, and have repudiated the truth of Thy most august and most exalted Self   BH07426

O my Lord! Pour forth upon me patience and grant me victory over the transgressing people...O Lord! Pour forth upon me patience and grant me victory over the idolatrous people who speak naught but their own vain imaginings and are moved only by their own desires.  BH00267

O my God, and my Lord, and my Hope! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great and Most Glorious Name, and by Thy Most Exalted and Most High Command, to protect him who hath turned unto Thee and dwelt beneath Thy shadow from the evil of the wicked ones among Thy creatures.  BH06756

Make them submissive to Thy majesty, humble before Thy loved ones, mindful of Thy remembrance, vigilant in Thy Cause, attentive to the protection of the stronghold of Thy Covenant, attracted to Thy beauty, and preserved under the shadow of the Tree of Thy oneness  AB02040

Do thou likewise pray that God, exalted be His glory, may protect this Wronged One from the evil of those who make a show of friendship. Say: O Lord of hosts and Revealer of the seen and unseen! Inscribe through Thy Pen of destiny a word of deliverance for Thyself.  BH02866

And I beseech Thee by that which lieth with Thee to protect me and my family from the croaking of those who have denied Thy proof and Thy testimony, who have disputed Thy signs and cast aside Thy laws. Verily, Thou art the Strong, the All-Conquering, the Almighty.   BH00514

O Lord! A man from among the most evil of Thy creatures has arisen to destroy the word of Thy loved ones and harm Thy servants...O Lord! Seize him through Thy might and power with the grip of One mighty and powerful, that the hearts of Thy loved ones may find rest   AB02036

I beseech Thee by the Lord of "but for Thee," through Whose advent the celestial spheres were honored, to protect Thy monotheistic servants from the evil of Thine enemies and to assist them through the hosts of the unseen and the visible, through Thy power and might.   BH03308

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy grace to assist Thy loved ones in that which Thou hast willed in Thy days. Then protect them, O God of the world and Lord of eternity, from those who dispute Thy signs and rise up to extinguish Thy light.  BH00024

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the sovereignty of the Names through which Thou hast adorned earth and heaven, to send down upon Thy male and female servants that which will make them signs of Thy glory amongst Thy creation and evidences of Thy power amongst Thy servants.   BH08249

I beseech Thee by Thy Hidden Name, and Thy Manifest Beauty, and by the Manifestation of Thy Supreme Self, Who is visible from this Most Glorious Horizon, to protect me and my loved ones through Thy Most Great Protection and Thy mercy which hath preceded earth and heaven.  BH08830

O Lord! Remove the distress, bestow abundance of bounty, perfect Thy mercy, complete Thy gift, and deliver him from tribulation. O Lord! None can remove it save Thee, none can protect Thy servant save Thee, none can aid him save Thee, and none can befriend him save Thee.  AB06473

I beseech Thee, O Possessor of the kingdom of names, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the earth and heaven, to ordain for me that which will protect me from the evil of Thine enemies and draw me nigh unto Thee and exalt me through Thy Name amongst Thy creation.  BH06020

I beseech Thee to preserve me from all that beseemeth not the heaven of Thy might and the ocean of Thy power, and to aid me to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book. Verily Thou art the Possessor of all being and the Ordainer of the seen and the unseen.  BH10152

O my Lord, my Refuge, my Beloved, my Deliverer! Protect this illumined leaf who is from the Tree of Thy mercy in Thy safekeeping and protection, refresh her heart with the fragrances from the gardens of Thy oneness, and guard her with the eye of Thy care and preservation.  AB05432

O my God! Look upon Thy Afnans with the glances of the eyes of Thy mercy and bounty...I beseech Thee, by the ocean of Thy verses and the lights of the Sun of Thy knowledge, to preserve them from the oppression of the enemies of Thy Self who have turned away from Thy horizon  BH02013

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast raised up the standards of Thy victory amongst Thy servants and lifted high the banners of Thy power amidst Thy creation, to send down from the heaven of Thy grace that which will cause the soil of hearts to become verdant.   BH06118

O Lord! These are the remnants of the martyrs and the company of the blessed ones...deliver them from the oppression of those possessed of terrible might and restrain from them the hand of evil and leave them not to be played with by the claws of wolves and the fangs of dogs  AB02024

"O Thou forgiving Lord! Thou art the shelter of all these Thy servants. Thou knowest the secrets and art aware of all things. We are all helpless, and Thou art the Mighty, the Omnipotent. We are all sinners, and Thou art the Forgiver of sins, the Merciful, the Compassionate."  ABU0030

I beseech Thee...to preserve him who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and hath held fast unto the cord of Thy bounty, and hath turned toward the direction of Thy mercy and Thy good-pleasure...preserve him from every disease and hardship and calamity and ailment and pain  BH08243

Hasten, by Thy grace and bounty, my passing, O my Lord, and pour forth upon all them that are dear to Thee what will preserve them from fear and trembling after me. Powerful art Thou to do whatsoever may please Thee. No God is there except Thee, the All-Glorious, the All-Wise.  BH06833

I beseech Thee, O God of all beings and Lord of all things, by Thy Most Glorious Name and by the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen, to preserve me through Thy bounty and grace, and ordain for me through Thy tender mercy and favors the good of the hereafter and of this world.   BH04448

I beseech Thee by the mysteries of Thy Dominion and the signs of Thy Kingdom to assist Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy Cause, then protect him, O my God, from the hosts of the Pharaohs who lay claim to knowledge without clear proof from Thee or evidence from Thy presence  BH03851

O Lord! Have mercy upon me through Thy bounty, then ordain for me that which shall preserve me from the evil of those who have disbelieved in Thy Self and turned away from Thy Beauty, after Thou didst come unto them from the heaven of Thy Cause with Thy sovereignty and power.   BH02410

O Lord! I beseech Thee...to send down from the clouds of Thy mercy upon Thy loved ones that which will cause the anemones of Thy wisdom and the roses of Thy knowledge to spring forth within their hearts. Then protect them through Thy power which the world hath failed to weaken.  BH09868

I beseech Thee to protect me from the oppression of Thine enemies who have violated Thy Covenant and Testament, who have denied Thy signs, who have disputed Thy proof, and who have rejected what Thou hast sent down from the heaven of Thy Will and the atmosphere of Thy Purpose.   BH01753

My God, my God! You see me with an agitated heart, flowing tears, and a troubled soul from fear of the dominion of Your wrath. I am like a fish writhing on the ground and a bird fallen into the talons of an eagle, dreading Your anger, O Establisher of the Covenant and Testament!  AB05499

O Lord! Thou seest them beneath the claws of the lion of the earth. Preserve them through Thy bounty, then guard them through Thy power, Thy might and Thy sovereignty. Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH06792

O my Lord! Thou beholdest them turning toward Thee and circling round the court of Thy will. I beseech Thee to disappoint them not through Thy generosity, nor to withhold from them through Thy grace. Take their hands with the hands of Thy power, then preserve them with Thy hosts.   BH00521

We beseech Thee by the sovereignty of the Names and by the Call which hath been raised between earth and heaven to protect us from the evil of Thy tyrannical servants who have shed the blood of Thy loved ones and cast aside Thy Book and violated Thy Covenant and disputed Thy proof.   BH02816

O Thou by Whose Name all things were subdued and by Whose Will the names were transformed! I beseech Thee by the penetrating power of Thy might and the manifestation of Thine authority, to protect me from the venom of Thine enemies and the sting of the wicked ones among Thy servants.  BH08404

'Abdu'l-Baha also offered humble entreaty at the Sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty and sought for you assistance, bounty, protection and shelter, so that you may abide secure in the impregnable fortress and lofty refuge of the Kind Lord, safe from the evil of the rebellious ones   AB07284

I beseech Thee, O my God, Lord of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all things, to protect Thy male and female servants who have turned unto Thee from the schemes of every schemer, the oppression of every oppressor, and the fire of every idolater.  BH10518

They are sore pressed with cares, O my Lord, and are encompassed about by the wicked. Send down, therefore, from the heaven of Thy behest Thine invisible hosts, that, holding aloft the ensigns of Thy victory, they may help them in Thy land, and may shield them against Thine adversaries.   BH03287

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me, caused me to hear, and made me know. I beseech Thee by the rain-showers from the heaven of Thy grace and the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty to protect me from the doubts of the suspicious ones and the allusions of the polytheists.  BH02845

I beseech Thee by the ordering of Thy Cause and the decree of Thy Pen and the blowing of the breezes of Thy Will whereby Thou hast subdued the hearts of Thy servants, to protect Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine opponents, then aid them with the hosts of Thy remembrance and utterance.  BH07680

Aid me through Your grace, O my Most Glorious Lord, and deliver me from their hands. Raise me to the proximity of Your mercy in the Supreme Concourse, that I may find rest in the shade of Your Tree of Mercifulness and repose in the pavilions of Your mercy that have encompassed all things.   AB05685

Preserve them, O God, with Thy transcendent sovereignty over all things and protect them with the watchful eye of Thy care and protection between all mankind. Withhold from them, God, the extended hands, the pointed arrows and the directed spearheads, the bared teeth and intensified claws   AB01556

Today all the people of the saved community must supplicate and beseech the Truth, exalted be His station, that through His boundless grace and generosity He may preserve the trees of the garden of unity from tempestuous winds, the saws of the transgressors, and the scythes of the hypocrites.  BH08173

O my Lord! Darkness hath encompassed all regions and the fire of tyranny hath surrounded Thy chosen servants. I beseech Thee, O my God, by the light of Thy justice and the radiance of Thy countenance to ordain for Thy loved ones that which will draw them nigh unto Thee in hardship and in ease.  BH09512

O my Lord! The oppressors have surrounded Thy loved ones and Thy lands, and Thou seest their weakness and powerlessness before their adversaries' guns and cannons. I beseech Thee, O Thou in Whose grasp are the reins of power and might, to assist Thy weak servants from the evil of these people   BH03593

O Lord! I beseech Thee by them and by their glory, might and power to protect Thy loved ones from the polytheists who have encompassed Thy cities and lands without any proof from Thee, and who have committed that which hath grieved the hearts of Thy chosen ones and the hearts of Thy messengers.  BH00723

I beseech Thee by Thy most sweet Call whereby the Kingdom of creation and the realities of names were attracted, to send down from Thy Most Exalted Pen upon the people of Baha that which will preserve them from the promptings of self and passion and draw them nigh unto the Most Glorious Horizon.  BH08268

I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Lord of all names, to guard Thy loved ones against Thine enemies, and to strengthen them in their love for Thee and in fulfilling Thy pleasure. Do Thou protect them, that their footsteps may slip not, that their hearts may not be shut out as by a veil from Thee.  BH03361

You must begin to pray and repent for all that you have done which is wrong and you must implore and ask for help and assistance that you may become better than yesterday so that you may continue to make progress...That is why you must ask and implore and entreat: "O God, protect me from myself!"  ABU0499

I beseech Thee... to protect Thy sheep from the wolves of Thy earth and the embodiments of trustworthiness from the calumniators and treacherous ones among Thy servants. Then assist them with the hosts of wisdom and utterance, and preserve them through Thy power which hath encompassed all things.   BH01656

O Lord! Have mercy upon me through Thy grace and bounty, and deliver me from the depths of these seas through Thy mercy and favor, that my heart may find rest in the seat of truth at the threshold of Thy Kingdom and my spirit repose in the court of forgiveness before Thy presence of divine mercy.   AB00129

O my God! O my God! Guard them by the eye of Thy protection, preserve them in the cave of Thy defence, deliver them from the grade of the contingent world, protect them during the violence of tests and trials, and assist them by a power from the breath of Thy Holy Spirit, in the world of existence!  AB00844

I beseech Thee by Thy power that hath encompassed all who are in the heaven of Command and Creation and the kingdom of the heavens and earth, and by Thy Most Great Name, the All-Glorious, to grant me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and to protect me from every affliction and harm.   BH04486

O my Lord! Thou seest Thy chosen ones and loved ones in a position where from all sides are heard the barking of the dogs of self and passion. I beseech Thee to protect them through Thy sovereignty and ordain for them that which will make them powerful through Thy might and wealthy through Thy bounty.   BH00808

O my Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones amidst the wolves of Thy earth and beneath the claws of those among Thy servants who hate them. I implore Thee to protect them with Thy hosts and to ordain for them every good thing which Thou hast sent down in Thy Book. Verily, Thou art the All-Forgiving, the Kind.  BH09207

O my Lord! I am Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden. I beseech Thee by the Mother Book and what lies hidden therein by Thy command and will, and by the Tablets stored within it by Thy decree and permission, to preserve me from the doubts of the deniers and the insinuations of the heedless.  BH06036

"I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy utterance and the dawning-places of the sun of Thy proof to preserve me from the evil of Thine enemies who have broken Thy covenant and Thy testament, who have denied Thy proof, who have disputed Thy signs, and who have turned away from Thy countenance."   BH02487

O Lord! Thou seest them heedless of turning unto Thee. Make known unto them, O my God, Thy path, Thy balance, and Thy straight way. Deprive them not, O my God, through Thy bounty and grace. Draw those on earth near unto the ocean of Thy oneness and illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge.   BH00284

O my God! Praise be unto Thee for having taken me by the hand of might and power, delivered me from the wicked ones, and caused me to enter among Thy righteous servants. I beseech Thee by Thy chosen Name to make me walk in the paths of Thy good-pleasure, though I be afflicted by the harm of Thine enemies.  BH11836

Lord, protect Thy sincere servants from the arrows of the hateful ones, guard Thy assured loved ones from the oppression of the tyrannical, preserve them from the torment of the base ones, the transgression of opponents, the assault of the ignoble, and the hostility of every harsh, base, aggressive sinner.   AB00384

O Lord! The storms have intensified, the springs have dried up, the tree trunks have been uprooted, the fruits have scattered, and the leaves have turned yellow. Send the breeze of Thy providence and pour down the clouds of Thy mercy until the trees perspire, the fruits strengthen, and the leaves turn green.  AB07177

I beseech Thee...to assist Thy servant who hath hastened to the sheltering shade of Thy oneness, that he may mention Thy sanctification in Thy Kingdom. Then encompass him in all conditions with the glances of the eyes of Thy mercy, and protect him from hardships beneath the wings of Thy protection and shelter.  AB09761

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Self to make for me a lamp from the light of Thy Cause that it may go before my face, lest the clamor of those who have denied Thy truth and disputed Thy signs and risen to extinguish Thy manifest, resplendent, evident, shining and luminous light cause me to become heedless.   BH08928

I beseech Thee for protection and preservation and safeguarding from this greatest sin and most grievous transgression, and for assistance in acquiring its lights and gaining its effects and gathering its fruits and chanting its verses and honoring its rites and magnifying its manifestations and dawning-places.   AB01639

O Lord! Give them to drink from the Kawthar of Thy bounty, of which whoso partaketh shall neither be disturbed nor frightened by those in the land. Verily Thou art the Master of the servants and the Judge on the Day of Return. There is no God but Thee, the Triumphant, the All-Powerful, the Mighty, the Omnipotent.  BH00145

O God! Protect us from the evil of those who have disbelieved and make us independent of all things. O Lord! I seek refuge in Thee from all that the accursed Satan may bring. O Lord! I seek refuge in Thee from all Thine enemies. O God! Protect me from the evil of the oppressors and from the followers of darkness.  BB00522

Therefore, O God, protect me and whosoever is for Thee before us, behind us, to our right, to our left, above our heads, beneath our feet, and from every quarter that reaches us and all that we possess, howsoever Thou willest, wheresoever Thou willest, whithersoever Thou willest, and in whatever way Thou willest.  BB00139

Aid me then, O Thou Who didst rescue Jonah from the belly of the whale, Who didst deliver Abraham from the fire, Who didst remove the affliction of Job, Who didst dispel the grief of Jacob, Who didst relieve the sorrow of Joseph. For in Thy grasp lies all grace and power, and in Thy right hand all bounty and wisdom.  BB00349

Ask God to protect His loved ones. Say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having remembered me, and thanks be to Thee for having guided me. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne, and by the ocean of Thy verses, and by the heaven of Thy bounty, to assist me to remember Thee and praise Thee and serve Thy Cause.  BH07955

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by Thy sovereignty that dominateth all who are in Thy earth and heaven, to preserve them from the evil of Thine enemies, to send down upon them from the clouds of Thy mercy a blessing from Thee, and to ordain for them that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones.  BH02643

My God, my God! Thou hearest my lamentation and sighing for what hath befallen Thy loved ones at the hands of them that have violated Thy Covenant and Testament. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the fruits of the Tree of Thy utterance to protect them with Thy hosts and guard them by Thy power.  BH05904

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which all darkness hath been dispelled and all light hath dawned forth, and the Face hath been illumined in the heaven of all possibilities, and Beauty hath shone forth in the kingdom of all created things, to guard the bearer of this Tablet through Thy sovereignty and power.   BH11087

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having protected me from these people and their imaginings and fancies...I beseech Thee, O Lord of all beings, by the Most Exalted Horizon wherein Thy sweetest call was raised, to ordain for me that which will preserve me from the vanities of the world and the doubts of the nations   BH06014

O my God! This is Thy servant who hath bowed down before Thy Manifestation and hath submitted himself before the dawning rays of the lights of Thy glory and sovereignty. I beseech Thee to protect me beneath the shelter of Thy protection and safeguarding, and to preserve me within the cave of Thy generosity and guardianship.  BH10337

O Lord! Protect them from arrows, guard them from spears, preserve them from the aggression of the oppressors, shield them from the evil of the rejected and abased ones and from the dominion of the slanderers and fault-finders. Strengthen them with the hosts of Thy Kingdom and aid them with the armies of Thy might and power   AB01278

O Lord! Pour forth upon us patience, make firm our steps, and grant us victory over the heedless people who have turned away from Thee and opposed Thee and disputed Thy signs and warred against Thy Self and arose to lead Thy creation astray through a plot at which the dwellers of Thy celestial realm and kingdom have lamented.  BH06473

"My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the blood of Thy lovers which was shed in the land of Ya, and by their patience and steadfastness and submission and contentment, and by the mysteries of Thy Book and the fragrances of Thy verses, to ordain for me that which will preserve me through Thy hosts and guard me by Thy sovereignty."  BH08400

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all who are in the heavens and on earth to preserve the lamp of Thy Cause within the glass of Thy power and bounty, lest the winds of denial blow upon it from the direction of those who have been heedless of the mysteries of Thy chosen Name.  BH08825

O Lord! Thou beholdest them turning to Thee, clinging to the cord of Thy favors, and holding fast to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty and grace. Send down upon them from the heaven of Thy loving-kindness that which will preserve them from the oppression of the transgressors among Thy servants and the deniers among Thy creation.  BH01396

I beseech Thee...to preserve through Thy power Thy loved ones who have turned to the Dawning-Place of the lights of Thy countenance and have advanced toward the Dayspring of the manifestations of Thy Cause. Aid them with Thy confirmations, then ordain for them through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and the world to come.  BH09875

O my God, my Adored One, my Goal! ... I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance, the power of Thy Will, and the potency of Thy purpose, to protect me and Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine enemies who have been so deluded by the world that they have violated Thy Covenant and Testament, denied Thy right, and disputed Thy signs.   BH01167

We beseech His infinite grace and favor that He may ever cause that beloved one to abide beneath the shade of the Tree of divine protection and preservation, and guard him from the evil of the people of tyranny and pride, and adorn him with the robe of grace and mercy, and sustain him from the Salsabil of generosity and loving-kindness.   BH03571

to protect this servant, who hath enjoyed companionship with Thee, hearkened unto the accents of Thy voice and recognized Thy proof. Vouchsafe, then, unto him the good of both this world and the next, and grant unto him the station of righteousness in Thy presence, that his feet may not slip from Thine all-glorious and most exalted path.   BH11086

My God, my God! Thou knowest and seest how the polytheists have surrounded Thy domains and desire to seize Thy lands. I beseech Thee by Thy light whereby the earth of Thy wisdom and the heaven of Thy utterance were illumined, to protect Thy trusted servants from the oppression of the treacherous ones and the aggressors and the slanderers.   BH02032

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee...to preserve the bearer of this Tablet from every affliction and illness, and from every disease and malady, and from whatsoever may occur through Thy decree in Thy kingdom of plague and pestilence and less than these, from all that causeth souls to tremble and bodies and hearts to be disturbed.  BH07651

I beseech Thee, O Thou in Whose hand is the dominion of all things, to assist Thy loved ones and deliver them from the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures and the wicked ones among Thy people. Then protect this lamp from the breath of those who are moved by their evil desires to arise to extinguish Thy light and mislead Thy creation.  BH08851

Glorified art Thou, O God of the world and Educator of the nations! I beseech Thee by Thy Name which Thou hast made sanctified above the mention of those who make mention and the knowledge of the knowers, that Thou protect me beneath the shadow of Thy greatest mercy and cause me in all conditions to be turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon.   BH09993

Then I beseech You, O my God, by Your bounty which You have specifically bestowed upon servants from the Supreme Concourse, whom You have caused to dwell in the pavilion of Your glory under the shade of Your merciful countenance in the hereafter and the first life, to be a helper to Your poor servant who has been afflicted by every evil one.   AB00349

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having turned toward me from the direction of Thy Most Great Prison and mentioned me in that which hath attracted the hearts of the nations. I beseech Thee by the light of Thy countenance, whereby the horizon of the world was illumined, to assist me to preserve what Thou hast given me through Thy bounty...   BH06359

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the sun of Thy bounty to preserve Thy Books from the evil of the heedless ones and the theft of the oppressors. Then open before my face the door of Thy bounty with the key of Thy Most Great Name, and ordain for me that which will protect me from the transgressors among the peoples.   BH04591

O Kind Lord, now protect us from the arrows of insinuations and preserve us from the hosts of doubts. Shield us from the whirlwind of tests and guard us from the tempest of trials, for verily the reality of existence without Your aid and grace becomes a vanished shadow, and the mighty spirit without Your profound favor becomes but diseased dust.  AB04412

O my God, my God! Have mercy upon Thy servants, both men and women, and withhold them not from the Furat of Thy mercy which hath flowed in Thy days in the garden of inner meanings by Thy command...Send down, therefore, upon them and upon Thy handmaidens, from the clouds of the heaven of Thy bounty, that which will preserve them from all except Thee.  BH09735

O Lord! Thou seest how the people of the Bayan have broken Thy Covenant and violated Thy Testament and turned away from Thy Beauty. I beseech Thee by the Most Great Ocean which surgeth through Thy Name, and by the fragrance of Thy garment which hath been diffused in Thy days, to preserve Thy servants and handmaidens through Thy power and sovereignty.  BH09736

O Lord, protect us through Muhammad and the family of Muhammad from what lies before us and behind us, from our right and our left, from above our heads and beneath our feet, and from every direction that pertains to us. For verily we are under Thy watch, Thy guardianship, Thy protection, Thy shelter, Thy fortress, Thy safeguard, and Thy sufficiency.  BB00011

O Thou Living, Mighty, All-Seeing and All-Hearing One! These are Thy pure-hearted friends and the captives of Thy disheveled tresses. They are without home or nest. O Thou Kind One, grant them a refuge and shelter and bestow upon them a protecting sanctuary, that they may abide under the shadow of Thy protection and care and be preserved from error.   AB02106

I beseech Thee, therefore, O my God, by the fire of Thy Essence which cannot be quenched and by the light of Thine eternity which shall never fade, to make me a fortress for Thy servants and a barrier against the Gog of Thy creation, lest they transgress the bounds which Thou hast ordained from Thy presence for the people of Thy earth and Thy heaven.   BH07163

Abase not him Whom Thou hast exalted through the power of Thine everlasting sovereignty, and remove not far from Thee him whom Thou hast caused to enter the tabernacle of Thine eternity. Wilt thou cast away, O my God, him whom Thou hast overshadowed with Thy Lordship, and wilt Thou turn away from Thee, O my Desire, him to whom Thou hast been a refuge?   BH08308

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy might and Thy grandeur and Thy Cause and Thy power to protect Thy trusted ones with the hosts of the unseen and the visible. Then send down upon them from the clouds of Thy mercy the rains of Thy utterance. Then open before my face the door of Thy mercy which hath preceded all who are in the heavens and the earth.   BH04440

O my Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones amidst Thine enemies and what hath befallen them in Thy path. I beseech Thee by Thy power which hath encompassed all created things, and by Thy sovereignty which hath surrounded all existence, to protect them with the hosts of the unseen and the visible, and to guard them with the manifestations of might and power.   BH01470

Keep her protected and preserved from tests and trials. Make her independent and free from all else besides You. Grant her dwelling and shelter in the refuge of pardon and forgiveness. Deliver her joy and delight of eyes and beloved child from difficulty and severe tribulation. Protect her soul and spirit and loving son in the cave of Your protection.   AB05108

Glory be to Thee, O God! Protect me from before me and behind me, from my right and my left, from above my head and beneath my feet, by that through which Thou hast sustained the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and that which Thou hast given me through Thy mercy and bounty from Thy presence. Verily, Thou art the Best of protectors.  BB00004

Therefore unto Thee do I entrust the Tree of Thy oneness in me, with me, upon me, before me, after me, above me, beneath me, before my face, and from every direction. However Thou dost cause it to flourish, that is best for it; however Thou dost make it firm, that is glory for it; however Thou dost raise it up, that is a bounty for it from Thy presence.   BB00051

O my Lord! I beseech Thee by Thyself and by her and by all the Manifestations of Thy names, that Thou wilt not leave me to myself and my desires, nor make me one of those who opposed Thee and turned away from Thee on the Day whereon Thou didst establish Thyself upon the throne of Thy mercy and didst manifest Thyself unto all things through all Thy names.   BH00478

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Protect me from before me and behind me, from my right and my left, from above my head and beneath my feet, by that through which Thou hast sustained the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and that which Thou hast given me through Thy mercy and bounty from Thy presence. Verily, Thou art the Best of protectors.  BB00004

O Lord, O Thou Who art the Possessor of forgiveness, pardon and beneficence! Verily, this is a servant who is related to one whom Thou didst encompass with the glances of Thine all-merciful eyes in the world of lights. He seeketh Thy protection from the evil of the wicked ones, and taketh refuge in the shelter of Thy mercy - the gathering place of all hopes.  AB09678

I beseech Thee, O my God, my Lord, my Creator and my Beloved, by the ocean of Thy Most Great Name, and by the heaven which Thou, O Lord of Eternity, hast raised up, to deliver Thy loved ones from those who have been so intoxicated with the wine of self-conceit that they have cast Thy Book behind their backs and followed Satan in whatsoever he commandeth them.  BH06904

I am one of Thy handmaidens, O my Lord! Unto Thee have I turned, and in Thee have I placed my trust. Grant that I may be so confirmed in my love for Thee, and in fulfilling that which is well-pleasing unto Thee, that neither the defection of the infidels among Thy people, nor the clamor of the hypocrites among Thy creatures, may avail to keep me back from Thee.  BH08828

Lord! Remove this harm and repel this misery. Make hearts overflow with bounty, breasts expanded through Your greatest outpourings, and souls revived by the breezes of faithfulness, that they may glorify Your praise and sanctify You morning and evening, protected in Your shelter from the people of hypocrisy, rejoicing in Your pervasive and far-reaching victory.  AB02466

Lord! Expand their breasts through the signs of Thy victory, attract their hearts through the breezes of Thy garden of grace, heal their ailments with the cup of Thy remedy, bind their wounds with the balm of Thy bounty and loving-kindness, strengthen their loins for Thy service, fortify their backs for Thy worship, and ordain for them guidance in their affairs.  AB12108

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Restrainer, to withhold from us the maleficence of Thine adversaries who have disbelieved in Thy testimony, and caviled at Thy beauty. Shield them, by Thy Name, the Preserver, within the stronghold of Thy might and power, that haply they may be protected from the darts of doubt that are hurled by such as have rebelled against Thee.  BH03356

I beseech Thee, O God, by Thy most beautiful names and Thy most exalted attributes, and by all that Thou lovest and art pleased with, to protect the bearer of this green leaf from every evil encompassed by Thy knowledge, and to cause him to enter into every good encompassed by Thy knowledge, through Thy grace and bounty and the sovereignty of Thy might and power.   BB00467

O peerless Lord! Holy and sanctified art Thou. Merciful and kind art Thou. Thou art the Helper and the Defender. Grant these helpless ones a shelter beneath Thy protection, and in the stronghold of Thy safeguarding and care, preserve these lowly ones from the evil of the people of discord. Verily, Thou art the Protector, the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Potent.  AB09158

My God, my God! Thou seest Thy loved ones beneath the talons of Thine enemies and hearest their cries and lamentations in Thy days. I beseech Thee by Thy loved ones whom the oppressors have torn limb from limb in the land of Ya, and by their blood and dismembered parts, to protect Thy loved ones through Thy power and deliver them from the wickedness of Thy creation.  BH10455

O Lord! O Forgiver! I am a weak servant and a frail being. You are the exalted refuge of the helpless and the strong sanctuary of the wanderers. The winds of trials are fierce and the tempests of tests uproot those near and far, and demolish the foundations of all, whether close or distant. Grant Your aid and protection, and withhold not Your pardon and forgiveness.  AB07285

O my God and the God of all that are in the heavens and on earth! I beseech Thee by the Name through which the eyes were illumined, that Thou protect me from every affliction and hurt, and aid me to stand firm in this Cause whereby all who are on earth were shaken except such as were preserved through Thy Name, the All-Compelling, the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  BH05847

O Lord! Thou seest them drawn to Thee, speaking Thy praise, bearing every hardship in Thy path, patient under Thy trials, persecuted by Thy servants. O Lord! Prepare for them a way of right guidance, make them brilliant lamps unto all, stars rising in the midst of heaven, piercing meteors against those who would steal a hearing from among the weak Covenant-breakers.   AB01542

O Lord! Thou seest how the heedless have surrounded those who have turned to Thy most exalted horizon and clung to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty, O Thou Who art the Lord of Names and Creator of the heavens! O Lord! Ordain for Thy loved ones that which shall protect them from the evil of those who have turned away from Thee and disputed Thy proof and Thy testimony.   BH00933

I beseech Thee by the heaven and its stars and its radiance, and the moon and its light, and the earth and its waters and its bounties and its trees and what is treasured therein, and the seas and their pearls concealed within their shells, and by that which is within Thy knowledge and the treasuries of Thy power, to protect Thy loved ones from the evil of Thine enemies.   BH05773

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, through which the breezes of the dawn of Thy grace have wafted over Thy servants, to assist Thy Afnan to attain unto Thy presence and to hold fast unto that which hath been ordained for them through Thy bounty and favors. Then protect them from the evil of Thine enemies and from the malice of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs.  BH00790

And recite at noon every day: "Glory be to God! There is no God but Him! And praise be to God Who hath not taken unto Himself a spouse nor a son, and Who hath no partner in sovereignty, nor any protector out of weakness. And magnify Him with all magnificence!" Then recite the Surih of Unity twelve times, and after each time say twice "God, my Lord, sufficeth all things."   BB00579

O peerless Lord! Thou art holy and sanctified. Thou art compassionate and kind. Thou art the Succourer and the Helper. Grant these helpless ones a shelter beneath Thy protection, and in the stronghold of Thy safeguarding and care, preserve these lowly ones from the evil of the people of hypocrisy. Verily, Thou art the Preserver, the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Potent.  AB09158

My God, my God, my Lord, my Support, my Master, my Helper, my Goal and my Object of worship! I beseech Thee by the lamp of Thy Cause which Thou didst kindle with the hand of Thy power, and by the pearls which were hidden in the hearts of Thy chosen ones, and by the ocean of Thy verses and the heaven of Thy generosity, to protect Thy friends through Thy bounty and Thy hosts.  BH01844

O my God, my Lord, and my Hope! I beseech Thee by the sovereignty of Thy power and the dominion of Thy might to protect Thy people from the whisperings of the devils and the promptings of the corrupters, and to guard the pearls of their love for Thee from the hands of the thieves. Verily, Thou art the Sovereign of all worlds and the Lord of the heavens and the earths.   BH00695

O my Lord! Thou seest me and Thy loved ones in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures. I beseech Thee to transform their tyranny into justice and their oppression into equity. Then send down upon them from the heaven of Thy power that which will transform their fear into tranquility, their weakness into strength and might, and their agitation into supreme steadfastness.  BH10646

Make this land, O my God, blessed and secure for me. Guard me, then, O my God, at the time of my entering into it and my going out from it. Make it, then, a fortress for me and for whomsoever worships Thee and bows down before Thee, that I may be protected therein through Thy bounty and kept safe within it from the darts of those who have disbelieved in Thee, through Thy strength.   BH11085

O Lord! Thou seest him so devoted in his love for Thee that the pen is powerless to mention it, the tablet to encompass it, and the tongue to express it. That which cannot be mentioned befitteth him, for he is Thy servant, and Thou art He Who cannot be described, that He might be spoken of in this Most Holy and Most Exalted Station, and this Most Holy and Most Glorious Remembrance.   BH00611

O my Lord! Leave me not to myself, and deprive me not of the wonders of the outpourings of Thy grace in these days wherein all have risen against Thy beauteous, holy and wondrous Countenance. O my Lord! Open mine eyes through Thy favors that I may know Thee by Thyself and by that which proceedeth from Thee. Then sever me from all that hindereth me from the paths of Thy good-pleasure.  BH11525

O Lord, Thou seest the unitarians among the idolaters, and what hath befallen them at the hands of the oppressors among Thy creation and the transgressors among Thy servants. I beseech Thee to preserve them through the hosts of Thy power and the legions of Thy might, then ordain for them what beseemeth the heaven of Thy generosity and the ocean of Thy mercy and the sun of Thy bounty.   BH04260

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I testify to Thy unity and Thy singleness, and to the sanctity of Thy Being and the detachment of Thine Essence. O my Lord! Thou seest Thy trusted ones in the hands of the treacherous among Thy creatures and the slanderers among Thy creation, and Thou knowest what hath befallen us from those of whom Thou art more aware than we are.   BH00685

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Protect us from whomsoever Thou willest from behind, and from whomsoever Thou willest from above our heads, and from whomsoever Thou willest from beneath our feet, and from every [...] unto the angels of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, then howsoever Thou willest and whensoever Thou willest. Verily Thou art the Preserver of all things.  BB00033

O Lord! Thou seest them turning away from the Known and advancing toward the imagined. O Lord! Deliver them through the arms of Thy power from the seas of idle fancies and vain imaginings, then grant them Thy sealed wine, whose seal was broken by Thy Self-Subsisting Name. O Lord! Withhold not Thy servants from the lights of Thy countenance, and deprive them not of the ocean of Thy bestowal.  BH00176

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name that hath dominion over all names, and by the movement of Thy Most Exalted Pen whereby all things were set in motion, to ordain for me through the Pen of Destiny that which will draw me nigh unto Thee and protect me from the evil of Thine enemies who have broken Thy Covenant and Testament, denied Thy proof and rejected Thy evidence.  BH05497

O my Beloved! Thy most vehement enemies and antagonistic foes have assailed Thy helpless servant from every ambush where they lay in wait. They have descended upon me from every height, attacking like wolves and pouncing like dogs, fearing not the Day of Retribution. The clouds weep for Thy lowly servant, the doves lament, and the nightingales in the hearts of the loved ones cry out in anguish.   AB00157

O my God! Thou seest and knowest that the oppressors have wronged Thy loved ones who have turned toward the Dayspring of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration and the Source of Thy Cause, and have driven them, together with their children and their women, from their homeland - though they had manifested naught except that which Thou didst command them through Thy Most Exalted Pen.   BH10682

O Lord of Names and Creator of Heaven! I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Place of Thy most excellent names and the Source of Thy most exalted attributes, Who has been imprisoned in Thy path amidst the wicked, that Thou aid me to make mention of Thee and praise Thee, and assist me in serving Thee in such wise that neither the might of the transgressors nor the power of the evil ones shall hold me back.   BH03841

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me to Thy most exalted horizon and for having caused me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy mighty signs. I beseech Thee by the Manifestations of Thy Revelation and the Daysprings of Thy inspiration to protect me from the evil of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs and have denied that which hath appeared from Thy presence.   BH05649

My God, my God! Thou seest how the faithful are in the clutches of the faithless, and the near ones in the grasp of the transgressors. That which hath befallen them in Thy path hath not befallen any among Thy servants. Their hearts have melted in their separation from Thee, their tears have flowed in their remoteness from Thee, and their breasts are constricted by what hath come upon Thee in Thy days.   BH00251

Glory be to Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom and Sovereign of the realms of might! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the mountain would take flight were it to be cast upon it, through which the heavens would be cleft asunder, and through which the earth would be rent asunder, to protect us from the arrows of the insinuations of them that mislead and from the swords of the doubts of the idolaters.  BH06586

O Lord of creation and Ruler over all lands! I beseech Thee by the Name through which was raised the scratching of Thy Most Exalted Pen between earth and heaven, to ordain for Thy chosen ones that which will bring tranquility to their souls and gladness to their hearts. O my Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones in the hands of Thine enemies. I beseech Thee to decree for me and for them the good of this world and the next.  BH10702

"O Lord! Free these sincere friends from tests and make these worthy servants successful through Your grace. Make each one a firm mountain and an unshakeable peak. Place the crown of servitude upon their heads and grant them eternal sovereignty. Bestow abundance in their livelihood and confer everlasting glory. You are the Giver, the Bestower, the Kind, and You are the Forgiver, the Acceptor, the Mighty, the Helper."  AB06161

I beseech Thee by Thy radiant and effulgent light, and by Thy mighty and wondrous Name, whereby the realities of names were shaken and the manifestations of wickedness and indecency lamented, to adorn the temples of Thy servants with the raiment of godliness and their heads with the crown of steadfastness and detachment, that they may not be frightened by the might of the oppressors nor the tyranny of the aggressors.   BH00369

O Lord! Thou seest them in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures who have violated Thy Covenant and Testament and have reached such a state of wickedness that they have pronounced judgment against them with such tyranny as hath caused the people of the cities of Thy justice and bounty to lament. I beseech Thee to protect them from the oppression of every oppressor and from the Pharaohs and tyrants of the earth  BH01031

My God, my God! Thou seest the Wronged One making mention of Thy loved ones and acquainting them with that which draweth them nigh unto the court of Thy glory. I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy power and the heaven of Thy bounty to aid them to be steadfast in Thy love and to illumine their hearts with the lights of Thy knowledge. Then protect them from the evil of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and Thy signs  BH02715

When thou hearest the cooing of the Dove of My utterance upon the branches of the Tree of My knowledge, say: "My God, my God! I testify to Thy oneness and Thy singleness, and that Thou hast no partner in Thy dominion nor any equal in Thy kingdom. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy power and the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Thy oneness to protect me from the evil of Thine enemies and to draw me nigh unto Thee."   BH04436

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy throne, the mysteries of Thy Book, the Manifestations of Thy revelation, the Daysprings of Thy knowledge, the Sun of Thy grace, and the Ocean of Thy knowledge which surgeth before the eyes of the world, O Thou Who art the Lord of eternity, to aid Thy loved ones and chosen ones, then preserve them, O my God, from the evil of those who have risen to spread corruption and have kindled fire in the lands.   BH01247

O Lord! Thou seest what hath befallen Thy loved ones at the hands of Thine enemies. I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the cities and regions, and by the lights of Thy countenance whereby the lands were illumined, and by the flowers of the gardens of Thy bounty and the fruits of the Tree of Thy power, to ordain for this servant of Thine mercy from Thee and grace from Thy presence.   BH00361

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all who are in the heavens and earth, through which Thy remembrance was exalted, Thy proof was established, Thy evidences appeared, and Thy verses were sent down, to assist Thy loved ones in that which Thou hast purposed for them through Thy bounty and favor. Then deliver them from the fire of self and passion, and cause them to enter beneath the shadow of Thy Most Great Mercy.   BH01580

O God! O Thou Who dost strengthen the sincere ones with hosts from the Most Glorious Kingdom and Who dost confirm those firm in Thy Covenant with legions of angels from the Supreme Concourse! This servant, submissive and humble before Thy exalted Threshold, calls upon Thee, supplicating and imploring before Thy Most Great Mercy, taking refuge in the cave of Thy protection and most mighty safekeeping, that Thou wouldst protect him from the evil of enemies  AB05013

Glory be to Thee, O my God! Thou verily knowest my abasement and poverty, and seest my burning anguish and distress, and hearest my moaning and lamenting and my cry of grief. I beseech Thy exalted threshold and Thy most sublime sanctuary, and in utter lowliness and contrition I turn to the Kingdom of Mysteries and pray on behalf of the righteous, that they may be enabled to serve among the free and find refuge in the cave of Thy protection from the wicked.  AB02305

O my Lord! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have turned unto Thee with the turning of one who is assured, seeing, confident and informed. I beseech Thee by Thy Name whereby Thou hast illumined the world to set right my affairs and to ordain for me from the Pen of Thy decree that which will bring me into Thy presence. Then decree for me, O my God, that which will preserve me from the clamor of the heedless ones and the uproar of the treacherous ones.  BH01720

O Lord! Thou seest the monotheists among Thy servants under the rule of the oppressors and polytheists, such that the tyrants of the earth and pharaohs of the land have surrounded their cities and homes. O Lord! I beseech Thee to transform their weakness into strength, their powerlessness into might, their sorrow into joy, and their abasement into glory. Verily, Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is no God but Thee, the Strong, the Dominant, the Powerful.  BH00701

O Lord, O Possessor of forgiveness, pardon and beneficence! This servant is related to one who was embraced by the glances of Thy merciful eyes in the world of lights. He cries unto Thee for deliverance from the evil of the wicked, and seeks refuge in the shelter of Thy mercy, the gathering-place of hopes. He seeks assistance through Thy might and power, O Possessor of firm strength and dominion triumphant over all the worlds. Verily Thou art the Deliverer of those in distress  AB09678

O my God! I complain unto Thee of the manifestation of wickedness and rebellion and corruption, and that which hath come between Thee and Thy servants. I beseech Thee by Thy Name, O Lord of the Day of Mutual Calling, to protect us through Thy sovereignty and power and to make us of those who soar in Thine atmosphere. Then gather us beneath the shade of the shelter of Thy mercy in every world of Thy worlds. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Help in Peril.   BH04545

I am the one who is in misery, O God! Behold me cleaving fast to Thy Name, the All-Possessing. I am the one who is sure to perish; behold me clinging to Thy Name, the Imperishable. I implore Thee, therefore, by Thy Self, the Exalted, the Most High, not to abandon me unto mine own self and unto the desires of a corrupt inclination. Hold Thou my hand with the hand of Thy power, and deliver me from the depths of my fancies and idle imaginings, and cleanse me of all that is abhorrent unto Thee.  BH05071

O God! I seek Thy forgiveness, O my God, for what I have said before Thy Beauty and what I have committed before Thy Majesty. Verily, Thou sufficest all things and nothing sufficeth apart from Thee. Therefore suffice me, O God, through Thy generosity, and guard me through Thy grace, and assist me from Thy presence, and fill my heart with fear of Thee, and show me the countenance of Thy proof, and inspire me at all times with Thy beginning and Thy seizure, then with hope in Thee and Thy grace.  BB00031

I beseech Thee by the Light whereby the darkness was illumined, and by the Drop whereby Thou didst manifest the seas, and by the Point whereby Thou didst expound the Books and the mysteries of Revelation, and by Thy Beloved through Whom Thou didst create existence and made Him the Guardian over the unseen and the seen, and through Whom Thou didst perfect Thy religion amongst Thy servants and manifest Thy Cause throughout the lands - to assist Thy servants in that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.   BH01086

My God, my God! I am he who hath turned unto Thee and believed in Thee and in Thy signs. I beseech Thee by the Standard of Thy Cause which neither the tempestuous winds can move nor the succession of centuries and ages can change, to make me in all conditions to hold fast unto Thee, to take refuge in Thy Presence, to seek protection with Thy Self, and to abide beneath Thy shadow. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH06413

"O God! Assist them through the power of Thy celestial might and enable them through the force of Thy divine dominion. Open before their faces the doors of triumph and grant them sustenance from the table of heaven, O Thou Most Holy and Most Glorious! Make for them a way out and ordain for them provision, and sustain them from Thy hidden treasuries. Make them victorious over those who have harmed them and protect them in the shelter of Thy protection through Thy aid and bounty, Thy safeguarding and preservation"  AB03138

O my God, my God! These are Thy chosen, pure, mindful and faithful servants among all humanity. They have been afflicted by the ignorant ones. Thy gazelles in the wilderness of unity and faithfulness have fallen under the fangs of dogs and wolves, and Thy sheep have been caught in the claws of hungry beasts. O Lord! Guard them through Thy protection, the eye of Thy care and Thy shelter from the evil of the wicked, base, ignoble enemies. Verily Thou art the Strong, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Protector, the Wise.   AB01941

O my God and the God of the world, my Purpose and the Purpose of the nations! Strengthen the hearts of Thy party, draw them nigh unto Thee, and assist them in that which befitteth Thy unity and that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. O Lord! Thou seest them in the hands of the idolaters who have turned away from Thee, from Thy signs, and from that which Thou hast sent down from the kingdom of Thy utterance. I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to assist them with the hosts of the unseen and the visible.  BH09264

My God, my God! Thou seest me weakened by fasting and standing in prayer, and my strength has waned in the darkness of these nights. I am unable to count the praises of Thy Most Glorious Beauty, and I bow my face to the dust in humility before Thy greatness and might, which has appeared like the sun at high noon on the Day of Return. I beseech Thee to assist Thy owned servant Baqir, revealer of mysteries and vanquisher of the wicked, and to strengthen him with mighty hosts of grace and benevolence in every time and place.   AB01782

Glorified art Thou, O Lord my God! O Thou Who art my God, and my Master, and my Lord, and my Support, and my Hope, and my Refuge, and my Light. I ask of Thee, by Thy Hidden and Treasured Name, which none knoweth save Thine own Self, to protect the bearer of this Tablet from every calamity and pestilence, and from every wicked man and woman; from the evil of the evil-doers, and from the scheming of the unbelievers. Preserve him, moreover, O my God, from every pain and vexation, O Thou Who holdest in Thy hand the empire of all things.  BH05801

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst bring the contingent beings into existence and didst manifest all created things, and through which Thou didst rend asunder the veils from the face of all who are in the heavens and on earth, that Thou mayest cause this poor one and these poor ones who have emigrated with him to enter the city of Thy riches within the pavilion of Thy glory and might. Then assist us with the wonders of Thy help, clothe us in the garment of Thy love, and deprive us not, O my God, of what lieth with Thee   BH01072

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having guided me unto the Dawning-Place of Thy signs, and glory be unto Thee for having caused me to hear Thy call. I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Kingdom and the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge, to aid us to remain steadfast in Thy Cause, the Most Great, the Most Holy [...] the Most Exalted. Then open before my face, O my God, the door of [Thy grace], and protect me from the evil of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs, and have rejected that which hath been sent down from the heaven of Thy bounty upon Thy servants.  BH05419

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of Heaven, by the Crimson Scroll and by Thy Most Exalted Pen, to assist Thy chosen ones to celebrate Thy praise and glorify Thee. Then raise them up, O my God, amongst Thy servants and Thy creation. I implore Thee, O God of the Kingdom and the Realm, and Sovereign of the Celestial Dominion, by Thy Name through Whose manifestation all names bowed down in prostration and all things submitted themselves in humility before Thy Face and in lowliness at Thy Revelation, to aid Thy loved ones with Thy hosts and protect them from the enemies of Thy Self.  BH00137

O my Lord! Protect me from those on whose faces is seen the dust of hell-fire. Then aid me in Thy remembrance and praise, and make me steadfast in such wise that neither the veils of the peoples of creation nor the whisperings of the evil ones shall prevent me. O my Lord! Thou hast guided me to the Dayspring of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy inspiration. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name, whereby Thou hast distinguished between the nations, to protect me beneath the pavilion of Thy mercy and the tabernacle of Thy glory. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH01388

O Lord! When Thou didst rend their garments in Thy love, and burn their hearts with the flames of longing ignited by Thy remembrance, and remove their restraint in their passion for Thee, and make them renowned through Thy name among Thy servants, and exalt their names in Thy Books and Scriptures - preserve them from the evil of Thine enemies among Thy creation, and guard them with the eye of Thy protection and care, and shield them from the arrows of the oppressors' tyranny, and protect them from the spears of the treacherous ones' betrayal, and keep them within the sanctuary of Thy help and protection  AB06484

My God, my God! Thou hearest the cry of the sincere ones, the lament of them that are nigh unto Thee, and the sighing of them that know Thee, when Thine enemies have encompassed them from every direction and there hath befallen them that which hath caused the dwellers of the cities of names to wail. I beseech Thee, O my God, by them and by those who have offered up their lives in Thy path and have expended all they possessed in their longing to meet Thee, to assist Thy loved ones with the hosts of the unseen and of the visible realm. Then protect them from the evil of every oppressive enemy and every wicked transgressor.   BH00609

Glory be unto Thee, O God of Names, Creator of the heavens, Who hath appeared before the faces of enemies and speaketh from the supreme horizon! Thou seest Thy loved ones in the hands of the oppressors, and in every moment there befalleth them that which causeth faces to change and beings to be set ablaze. I beseech Thee, O Source of Bounty, by Thy Name through which Thou made the sweet waters of Thy mercy to flow among Thy servants, and by Thy Command whereby the trumpet was blown and they that lay in their graves arose, to aid Thy loved ones to remember and praise Thee, and to protect them from the evil of Thy creatures.   BH00256

O my God! I beseech Thee by the blood that hath been shed in Thy path, and by the hearts that have melted in their love for Thee, to assist Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy Cause and to arise to serve Thee. Thou art, verily, powerful over whatsoever Thou willest, and within Thy grasp are the reins of all things. O my Lord! Thou seest them among Thy heedless servants who have cast behind their backs Thy Covenant, violated Thy Testament, and disputed Thy manifest signs. I beseech Thee to send down upon them from the heaven of Thy bounty and the clouds of Thy mercy that which will draw them nigh unto Thee in all conditions.   BH00393

I beseech Thee by the cries of the hearts of them that are sincere, and by the yearning of the hearts of them that long for Thee, and by that Name through which Thou didst shatter the idols of vain desire and strip from the temples of the wayward the cloak of names, and by which all who are in the heavens and on earth were struck with terror, and they that dwell in the realms of Creation and Command were shaken with fear - to protect Thy servants from the signs of them that have denied Thy most exalted Self, and waxed proud before Thee, and warred against Thee, after Thou didst reveal unto them Thy proofs and the evidences of Thy Cause  BH09377

O God, my Adored One, my Object of worship, the Gracious, the Merciful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, the All-Forgiving, the Concealer of faults, the All-Bountiful! Thou beholdest Thy loved ones amidst heedless souls, and Thy sheep among wolves who have denied the Day of Judgment. O Lord! Thou seest the righteous among the wicked, and the virtuous among those who have denied Thy Chosen Name. I beseech Thee by Thy gifts and favors, by the lovers of Thy Beauty and the lights of Thy horizons, to protect Thy chosen ones, then aid them with the hosts of Thy unseen realm, and make them the ensigns of Thy guidance and the manifestations of Thy power.  BH00247

Lord! Lord! Rescue these righteous ones from the oppression of the wicked, and protect them in the shelter of Thy protection from the predatory wolves in those regions and ferocious beasts who fear not the Mighty, the Compelling One, who dread not the consequences of this world, who awaken not from the slumber of passion, and who desist not from enmity and hatred. Lord! Thy sincere servants are under the claws of a ruthless, murderous band who show no mercy, and a group whose essence was kneaded with the water of injustice and pride. Lord! Guard Thy bondsmen with Thy watchful eye and preserve Thy loved ones beneath the glances of the eyes of Thy mercy.  AB01753

O my Lord! Thou knowest that the people are encircled with pain and calamities and are environed with hardships and trouble. Every trial doth attack man and every dire adversity doth assail him like unto the assault of a serpent. There is no shelter and asylum for him except under the wing of Thy protection, preservation, guard and custody. O Thou the Merciful One! O my Lord! Make Thy protection my armory, Thy preservation my shield, humbleness before the door of Thy Oneness my guard, and Thy custody and defense my fortress and my abode. Preserve me from the suggestions of myself and desire, and guard me from every sickness, trial, difficulty and ordeal.  AB07759

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning unto Thee and clinging to the cord of Thy generosity, the cord of Thy grace, the cord of Thy bestowal, and the cord of Thy bounty. I am surrounded on all sides by that which hath caused my limbs to quake and my heart to tremble. I beseech Thee, O Reformer of all affairs, by the One Who conversed on Sinai, and by the Light and its Manifestation, and by Thy Prophets and Thy chosen ones, and by Him through Whom and through Whose advent the heavens of Thy power and the spheres of Thy utterance were honored, to transform these sorrows into joy, this hardship into relief, this difficulty into ease, and this abasement into supreme glory.   BH01303

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name and Thy most perfect Mystery to send down upon Thy loved ones that which will strengthen their hearts, dilate their breasts, illumine their eyes, and enable them to guide Thy servants to the meadows of righteousness and lead humanity to the gardens of knowledge. Thou art He Whose grace hath encompassed all existence and Whose mercy hath pervaded both the seen and the unseen. I beseech Thee to protect Thy loved ones beneath the shadow of Thy safekeeping, to ward off from them the evil of the wicked among Thy creatures, and to ordain for them the good of both this world and the next beneath the shadow of Thy Most Great Name, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious.   BH00907

O God, my God! Make thou the believers in other lands to partake of Thine abounding grace, deliver Thou, by Thine unfailing help and bounty, whoso among Thy loved ones in the farthermost climes sigheth over the bitter cruelty of his foe. O Lord, they are the captives of Thy love, the prisoners taken by Thy troops. They are the birds that fly in the heavens of Thy guidance, the whales that swim in the ocean of Thy bestowals, the stars that sparkle on the horizon of Thy gifts. They are the defenders of the fortress of Thy law. They are the banners of Thy remembrance amongst men. They are the deep wells of Thy divine compassion, the fountains of Thy favours, the well-springs of Thy grace. Keep them ever in safety beneath Thine all-protecting eye.  AB00056

O my God, I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast manifested Thyself unto all things and through which Thou hast revealed the signs of Thy power in and the conditions in the kingdom of creation, to assist Thy servants with the waters which Thou hast caused to flow from the clouds of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy grace, that they may turn unto Thee with purified hearts, sanctified souls, attentive ears, illumined breasts and submissive necks. Then gather them, O my God, beneath the shadow of Thy loving-kindness and bounty, and protect them from the evil of those who have forgotten Thy Most Exalted Remembrance. O Protector! O Protector! O Helper! O Helper! O Protector! O Protector! O Helper! O Helper! O Protector! O Helper! O Protector! O Helper!  BB00381
