
I beseech Thee to enable me to serve Thy Cause in this Day   BH06693

I beseech Thee... to assist me to remember Thee and to diffuse Thy Cause   BH10358

Enable us to teach and be taught, and confirm us in study and perfection.   AB07375

O Lord! Strengthen him to serve Thee and spread Thy traces and exalt Thy Cause   AB03538

O Lord! Aid this servant of Thine to exalt Thy Word and to spread Thy signs amongst Thy servants  AB11402

Guide through them all peoples and nations, O my merciful Lord! Illumine through them the horizons of existence   AB01656

O Thou Lord of Unity, confirm this person who is old in faith and young in love, to summon people to Thy Kingdom.  AB11532

that we may guide the peoples to Thy Most Great Name and lead the nations to the shore of Thy Most Glorious Oneness   AB07006

I beseech Thee...to aid me to make mention of Thee with wisdom and utterance and to speak Thy praise amidst all religions  BH05963

and strengthen thee to guide mankind into the Supreme Kingdom and quicken hearts by the fragrances of the Paradise of Abha AB08351

I beseech Thee to assist me to aid Thy Cause among Thy creatures in such wise that the power of princes shall not weaken me.   BH09950

I beseech Thee...to ordain for me that which shall cause me to speak forth Thy name in Thy lands and to gaze upon Thy horizon   BH07979

that Thou mayest assist this servant through the inspirations of the unseen realm of Thy mercy and enable him to teach the youth   AB03213

Assist us...until we may guide the nations to Thy Most Great Name and lead the peoples to the most noble shore of the sea of Thy oneness  AB07074

O Lord! Thou seest the weak one who desires to aid Thy Cause through wisdom and utterance. Strengthen his limbs through Thy power and might.  BH09857

I beseech Thee, by the lights of the dawn of Thy Revelation, to assist me in making mention of Thee and in praising Thee with wisdom and utterance   BH04059

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Sovereign of the seen and unseen, to assist me to serve Thy Cause through the hosts of wisdom and utterance   BH05232

Let me arise to serve Thy Cause and with most wondrous melodies open my tongue to Thy remembrance in gatherings of the maidservants of the All-Merciful  AB04737

O my Lord! Aid me in Thy days to serve Thy Cause, that I may thereby possess the mention of good throughout the perpetuity of Thy names and attributes.   BH02843

that I may remain steadfast in manifesting Thy Cause in such wise that the turning away of Thy servants and the cawing of Thy creatures shall not deter me  BH09375

O my Lord! Aid me in Thy remembrance and praise and in teaching Thy Cause and in that whereby Thy Most Exalted Word may be upraised in the world of creation.   BH04126

Confirm me to deliver Thy Cause, enable me to call in Thy Name, and cause me to show forth the proofs of Thy Manifestation. Strengthen me to promote Thy Word   AB03891

O Lord! Open unto him the gates of joy in this praiseworthy century until there flow from him floods in teaching Thy Cause to every zealous and grateful one.   AB00502

O God... I beseech Thee not to disappoint me from that which is with Thee, that I may arise to serve Thee in Thy kingdom and to spread Thy signs throughout Thy earth.   BH09955

Enable me, O my God, in such wise that from me may be manifested the spread of Thy remembrance amongst Thy servants and the exaltation of Thy Word amidst Thy creation.   BH04494

O Lord! Aid us to hold fast unto Thee and unto that which hath been sent down from Thee, and assist this Thy servant to guide Thy creatures and direct them to Thy path.   BH04911

O Lord! Thou seest him who hath turned toward Thee - make him then to arise to serve Thy Cause, to speak Thy praise, and to open the hearts of Thy servants through Thy Name  BH08854

"I beseech God to assist thee in writing the response and to expand thy breast with the light of knowledge and to strengthen thy pen with confirmation from the Supreme Pen"  AB11686

Enable us to teach Thy Cause with wisdom and utterance throughout the contingent world and to guide the followers of all religions to the city of knowledge and understanding.  BH00679

Let their hearts, O my Lord, be carried away by Thy remembrance, and their souls enriched by Thy riches, and their wills strengthened to proclaim Thy Cause amidst Thy creatures  BH04186

Make them able, moreover, to proclaim Thy name amidst Thy creatures, and supply them with the best of what Thou hast destined for such of Thy chosen ones as enjoy near access to Thee.   BH08849

Then cause me to drink, at all times, from the Salsabil of Thy knowledge and the Kawthar of Thy utterance, whereby the hearts of Thy servants and the souls of Thy creatures may be drawn.   BH09952

O Lord, O Lord! Grant him and them success, strengthen him and them, inspire him and teach them until they speak forth Thy manifest proofs, Thy clear evidences, and Thy brilliant glad-tidings  AB00852

"I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name to assist me to serve Thy Cause that I may guide the servants to the shore of the ocean of Thy oneness"   BH02055

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the appearance of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thy Revelation and the Source of Thy Cause, to aid Thy loved ones to remember Thee and praise Thee and serve Thy Cause.   BH05406

I beseech Thee ... to make me steadfast among Thy servants in service to Thy loved ones who have traversed the lands to propagate Thy Cause and to kindle hearts with the fire of Thy divine Tree   BH03470

I beseech Thee, O Lord of Names, by Thy Name which hath dominion over earth and heaven, to assist them to spread Thy knowledge amongst Thy creation and to stand firm in Thy Cause within Thy realm.  BH09372

I beseech the Mighty, the All-Choosing One, and I supplicate night and day, and I pray for confirmation and success for you among the righteous ones, and for assistance and protection from evil ones  AB07034

I beseech Thee, O Lord, by the mysteries hidden within Thy knowledge and treasured within Thy Books, to aid Thy loved ones to champion Thy Cause through the hosts of Thy verses and Thy clear proofs.   BH07841

I beseech Thee and supplicate before Thee that Thou mayest make Thy servant, who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, a spreader of Thy fragrances, a servant of Thy Cause, a promoter of Thy religion   AB05923

Lord! Assist them to serve Thy Cause, enable them in servitude at Thy Threshold, spread through them Thy signs throughout all regions, and through them attract hearts overflowing with the wine of mysteries.  AB12157

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the Dawn and Sender of the Winds, to assist me to serve Thy Cause in such wise that through my mention the hearts of Thy servants and the souls of Thy creatures may be attracted.   BH08945

who have arisen to encourage Thy steadfast lovers to serve Thy Cause, exalt Thy Word, and spread Thy fragrances throughout that region, so that all may arise as one in spreading Thy teachings among the seekers   AB07176

Say: O my God and my Beloved! Deprive me not in these days of the breezes of Thy mercy and the melodies of the Dove of Thy gracious favors. Make me ever looking toward Thee and detached from all else besides Thee.  BH03144

My Lord and my Hope! Aid these souls to acquire the sciences that demonstrate the appearance of Thy Beauty in the realm of creation, and teach them the mysteries that were in the unseen world of contingent being...   AB03372

My God, my God! Aid me to arise to serve Thee and cause to appear from me that which will speed the sincere ones to Thy path. O my Lord! Strengthen my outer and inner being with the hosts of wisdom and utterance.   BH03735

Unloose his tongue in Thy praise in the assemblies of light, inspire him with the verses of Thy unity in the gatherings of joy and delight, and diffuse through him the sweet savours of Thy holiness in every land and region.  AB12789

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name which Thou hast made the ruler over all names, to aid me in Thy love and in helping Thy Cause and in detachment in Thy path in such wise that there may appear from me what befitteth Thy Cause   BH02117

I beseech Thee by the heaven of Thy grace and the sea of Thy power and the sun of Thy Cause to assist me in serving Thee and in praising Thee amongst Thy servants, and to enable me to do that which Thou lovest and art pleased with.  BH02272

"Thou seest my weakness, lowliness and humility before Thy creatures; nevertheless, I have trusted in Thee and have arisen in the promotion of Thy teachings among Thy strong servants, relying on Thy power and might."   AB00094

My Lord! Aid this servant of Thine to serve Thy Cause, to strive in Thy path, to praise Thee, to turn his gaze toward Thee, to enter Thy presence, and to draw nigh unto Thee. Make him a banner raised upon the highest summits in Thy love.   AB12611

We beseech Thee, O Creator of the heavens and Lord of all names, by the Most Great Word which hath proceeded from the mouth of Thy Will and the Pen of Thy Purpose, to assist us in remembering and praising Thee and in arising to serve Thy Cause.  BH08432

I beseech Thee, supplicating before Thy exalted threshold, Thy holy and most high court, and Thy vast and spacious sanctuary, to assist this servant to arise to call out in Thy Name amongst the people and to cry out to Thy most exalted Kingdom.  AB11049

O Lord! Assist Thy servant, the unique martyr, to spread Thy beautiful remembrance in every far-reaching region, and exalt through him Thy Word, and diffuse through him Thy teachings, and manifest through him Thy signs among the righteous ones   AB02973

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy giving to make me speak forth among Thy creation that I may acquaint them with Thy straight Path and Thy mighty Message, and show them Thy signs and the manifestations of Thy power.   BH06299

I beseech Thee...to raise up the roaring of the lions of divine knowledge in the thickets of the seat of Thy manifestation, and cause the whales of certitude to swim in the pools from which flowed the waters of Thy bounty on the day of Thy dawning  AB03546

Through them exalt Thy Word among humanity and spread through them the fragrances of Thy oneness in those regions. Strengthen them with Thy power that prevails over all things, and gird up their loins to arise to spread Thy teachings in all directions.  AB00931

O Lord! Assist this servant of Thine to spread the fragrances of Thy Covenant and Testament, aid him in Thy remembrance, illumine his face with the light of the star of Thy confirmation, strengthen his back in Thy service, be his companion in his journeys and travels  AB03474

I beseech Thee, O God of all beings and Educator of all things, by Thy bounty and power to manifest through me that which will cause the standards of Thy mention and praise to be raised aloft, and through which that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book may be spread abroad.  BH03140

"Lord! Make smooth his path, heal through him the sick, quench through him the thirst, and give to drink of the pure flowing waters to every thirsty one wandering in the desert of separation, burning with the fire of yearning, longing to drink from the brimming cup of the Covenant"   AB01101

O God, O Cleaver of the dawn and Commander of the winds! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Hidden Treasure and the Concealed Name were made manifest, to render me assisted in revealing Thy Cause among Thy creation through the wisdom which Thou hast sent down in Thy Tablets.   BH10357

O Lord! Aid those whom Thou hast reared by the hands of Thy grace and acquainted with Thy straight path and Thy mighty Message to proclaim Thy Cause with wisdom and utterance. Then grant them the sustenance of Thy heaven and the blessing which Thou hast sent down from the kingdom of Thy Will.   BH00786

O Lord! Even as Thou hast commanded them to call out between earth and heaven, assist the hearers to rend asunder the veils and draw nigh unto Thee, O Lord of earth and heaven. If Thou forsakest them, who would draw them nigh unto Thee, and if Thou aidest them not, who would guide them to Thee?   BH00491

O Lord, Lord! Breathe into his spirit the breath of the All-Merciful, loose his tongue in the field of remembrance and utterance, inspire him with the verses of guidance among humanity...so that he may guide the people of error to the path of truth, lead the parched and thirsty to the sweet waters  AB04949

O Lord, O God, O Kind One! This servant has hastened from the furthermost lands of the East to the West that perhaps through the fragrances of Thy bestowals these souls may become perfumed, that the breeze from the garden of guidance may waft over these regions, that souls may find capacity for Thy favors  AB06464

Assist him while returning to raise aloft the banner of Thy Godhead in the utmost poverty and to raise up the Tabernacle of Thy Cause in the Ark of salvation, and with the utmost effort and greatest striving to diffuse Thy lights from the dawning point of creation and to spread Thine exalted Word amongst mankind   AB03602

I beseech Thee, O Lord my God, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the earth and heaven, and through which Thy sealed wine was unsealed for the people of creation, to aid Thy servant Javad to exalt Thy Word in Thy kingdom, whereby hearts may be drawn to the Dayspring of Thy revelation and the Source of Thy inspiration  BH01268

O my God! Thou seest me standing before the throne of Thy grandeur, hearing Thy call, gazing upon Thy countenance, holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty, and clinging to the hem of Thy grace. I beseech Thee to assist me in serving Thy Cause, then to unite my scattered affairs that I may become capable of teaching Thy Cause.  BH11106

O Thou Almighty! We are Thy servants and Thy poor ones; we are remote and yearn for Thy presence, are athirst for the water of Thy fountain, are ill, longing for Thy healing. We are walking in Thy path and have no aim or hope save the diffusion of Thy fragrance, so that all souls may raise the cry: O God, Guide us to the straight path.  AB00241

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word and by the fragrances of Thy raiment amidst the Concourse on high, to teach Thy loved ones that which will enable them to arise to serve Thy Cause and to speak forth Thy praise and glorification. O Lord! Teach them what Thou hast willed in Thy days and what Thou hast ordained through the Pen of Thy Command  BH05411

Praise be unto Thee, O Beloved of them that know Thee! I beseech Thee not to deprive me of the breezes of Thy days nor to keep me back from the ocean of Thy presence. Then strengthen me to aid Thy Cause in Thy realm.   BH02181

My God, my God! This is Thy servant who is attracted by the fragrances of Thy holiness. Aid him to serve Thee and expand his breast with the light of Thy knowledge and make his affairs easy through Thy power and make him a sign of Thy oneness among Thy creation and the herald of Thy name among Thy creatures. Verily Thou art powerful over all things.   AB02895

O Lord! Aid these souls to exalt Thy Word among humanity, to diffuse the fragrances of Thy holy gardens throughout all regions, and to raise Thy remembrance throughout the earth until the cry of glorification and magnification rises to the Supreme Concourse. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest, and verily Thou art the Strong, the Mighty.  AB09267

O Lord! This is Thy servant who hath detached himself from all else but Thee, engaged in Thy remembrance, called out in Thy Name, unfurled the banner of Thy religion, raised the standards of Thy love, and guided the people to Thy straight and direct path. Confirm him through the confirmations of Thy Kingdom and breathe into his mouth the breath of the Spirit.  AB03764

Assist me and Thy loved ones, O my God, to help Thy Cause and to exalt Thy remembrance amidst Thy creation. Make them, then, to be stars in the heaven of Thy detachment, that through them may be manifested that which shall serve as evidence of the sanctification of Thy commandments among Thy creatures and the glorification of Thy laws between Thy earth and heaven.  BH04381

O Lord, give them wings by the power of divine confirmation that they may soar to heights no person of wisdom can attain. Plant in their wings the brilliant signs of might and power, the shoulders of glory and knowledge, and the primary feathers of bounty and grace, that they may hover at the zenith of guidance and warble the sweetest melodies in the highest Paradise.   AB00922

O Lord! Assist Thy servant whom Thou hast chosen for the promotion of Thy Cause and the diffusion of the fragrance of Thy sanctification and the manifestation of the signs of Thy oneness. O Lord! Strengthen his back and gird up his loins and make his affairs easy and illumine his face and loose his tongue that he may make Thy servants firm in Thy Covenant and Testament   AB05148

O Lord! Assist him with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse and support him with a company of the angels of Thy Most Glorious Kingdom, that he may conquer the fortresses of hearts and strongholds of souls with armies of life and hosts of salvation. Verily Thou art the Helper, verily Thou art the Confirmer, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Self-Subsisting.  AB01758

O my God, my God! I stretch forth my imploring hands toward the Kingdom of might and glory, and I beseech Thee to open before the face of Thy learned servant Thy spacious door, and inspire him with the signs of Thy oneness, the mysteries of Thy singleness, and the manifestations of Thy sanctity. Aid him with the hosts of Thy celestial Kingdom and the armies of Thy mighty dominion.  AB02027

O Lord! Expand the breast of this loving servant through the conquest of hearts and the hosts of Thy mysteries, and ordain for him victory and triumph over human hearts, that he may guide every blind one to Thy radiant beauty, make every deaf one hear Thy wondrous call, and bring to life all that is withered and decayed through the spirit of Thy knowledge, O Thou Glorious and Bountiful One!  AB04086

O Lord! Assist this unique servant and make him the unique one of the new age and the distinguished individual, that he may quicken the decayed bones through the holy fragrances of Thy sanctity in that distant region. My Lord! Make him a rising star, an articulate tongue, a radiant lamp, and a lofty tree, that all who fear the promised Day and severe chastisement may seek refuge in his shade.  AB04530

O God! O God! We are Thy humble and submissive servants, leaves of Thine exalted and verdant paradise, drops from the basins of Thine abundant mercy, and scattered particles flying about in Thy shining rays. O Lord, O Lord, render us successful through Thy conquering power, in that which Thou lovest and approvest, so that we may become standards of guidance, signs of Thy Kingdom, the El-ABHA...  AB01650

O my Lord! Ignite the fire of attraction in their hearts; let the birds of knowledge soar in the rose-gardens of their breasts and sing in the meadows of their souls, songs of love with the most wonderful melodies and harmonies; make them strong verses; unfurled ensigns and perfect words; elevate thy Cause by them; raise thy banners, spread thy signs, assist thy Word and support thy friends by them   AB00527

O Lord of Names and Creator of heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name whereby the hearts of nations were stirred, and by the lands which were honored by Thy footsteps, and by the air wherein Thy call was raised, and by the spot which Thou didst adorn with Thy presence and didst make the Greatest Panorama among mankind, to assist me to serve Thy Cause among Thy servants with wisdom and utterance.   BH01191

I beseech Thee by Thy arising to promote the Cause and Thy exalting the word of justice, and by Thy most great signs at whose descent all things proclaimed sovereignty and dominion, might and power unto Thy most exalted Self and Thy most glorious Name, to make me one who speaketh of Thy remembrance, who gazeth toward Thy horizon, and who acteth according to that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.   BH04071

O my God, my God! These are souls who have taken fire from the tree of Thy oneness and been set ablaze by the burning fire of Thy love in the Tree of Thy unity. O Lord! Aid them to diffuse Thy sweet savors in those regions and to raise Thy Word in those districts, until the pavilion of Thy glory is raised upon those hills and habitations and souls are gathered beneath the banner of Thy mercifulness in those lands.   AB03523

O Lord! Make this unknown one renowned throughout all regions through Thy love, and make this nameless one known in East and West through the light of guidance. Place in my hand a brimming cup of the wine of Thy love that I may intoxicate the world with this pure wine and lead the thirsty to the spring of living waters. May I guide the seekers of Thy beauty to the gathering of meeting and direct the sick to the loving Physician.  AB06588

Moreover I beseech Thee, O Thou Sovereign of bounty and Lord of the Kingdom of Names, by Thy most sweet call and by the signs of Thy power in the kingdom of creation, to rain down from the heaven of Thy grace upon him who hath confined his affairs to Thy mention and praise amongst Thy servants and who hath arisen to serve Thy Cause, the rain-showers of Thy generosity, the gentle drops of Thy munificence and the outpourings of Thy favors.   BH05410

Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God! Thou seest me clinging to the cord of Thy grace and holding fast to the hem of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by the verses which, when they shone forth from the horizon of Thy utterance, caused all other verses to bow down before them, to gather together for me the means of earth and heaven that I may arise to serve Thy Cause among Thy servants, to exalt Thy Word, and to manifest that which lay hidden in Thy knowledge.   BH09997

O my God O thou who quickenest the hearts with the fragrance of the Covenant, O thou who dost illumine the eyes! Assist thy humble servant, submissive at the door of thy oneness, that he may raise up thy Word in these remote regions, that he may spread abroad Thy fragrance in Thy Path, and gather together the believers beneath the sheltering beams of Thy perspicuous light and dilate their breasts with the manifestation of thy assistance from the Abha Kingdom.  AB03438

I beseech Thee on this day, by Thy Most Great Name, O Quickener of nations and Fashioner of mortal remains, to aid us in that which Thou hast commanded us in Thy Scriptures and Tablets, and in walking the paths of Thy good-pleasure. Then enable me, O my God, to assist Thy Cause, to proclaim Thine order, and to spread Thy signs among the peoples, that the standards of Thy guidance may be raised among Thy creatures and the fire of Thy love may be kindled in the hearts of Thy creation.  BH11724

O my God, my God! Aid Thy merciful servant and Thy Baha'i adherent to spread abroad Thy sweet savors, to set forth Thy proofs and Thine evidence, to establish Thy conclusive testimonies and expound Thy brilliant demonstrations through Thy grace, Thy generosity and Thy benevolence. Cause him to speak with most wondrous utterance in the gatherings of men, that his tongue may flow with proof like a torrent cascading from mountain peaks. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Munificent, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.  AB11073

My God, my God! These are souls at peace in Thy remembrance, content with Thy decree, well-pleased in Thy holy court. Assist them with the hosts arrayed in the Supreme Concourse and the reinforced armies from Thy Abha Kingdom. Make their tongues as spearheads raised in Thy remembrance and as drawn swords in teaching Thy Cause, that they may conquer the citadels of hearts and spirits through the fragrances of Thy holiness. Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful, the Self-Subsisting Lord. Verily Thou art the Bestower, the All-Bountiful.   AB01019

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having enabled me to turn to Thee and for revealing to me what was hidden and concealed from the eyes of Thy creatures. I beseech Thee, O Fulfiller of the needs of all seekers, to assist Thy Cause through wisdom and utterance. Strengthen, O my God, Thy loved ones to remain steadfast in Thy love and service. O Lord! Thou seest Thy trusted servant traversing the lands to manifest Thy Cause and exalt Thy Word. Aid him, O my God, with the hosts of revelation and inspiration, and with the angels on high.   BH01210

O God, my God! Thou beholdest this weak one begging for celestial strength, this poor one craving Thy heavenly treasures, this thirsty one longing for the fountain of eternal life, this afflicted one yearning for Thy promised healing through Thy boundless mercy which Thou hast destined for Thy chosen servants in Thy kingdom on high. O Lord! I have no helper save Thee, no shelter besides Thee, and no sustainer except Thee. Assist me with Thine angels to diffuse Thy holy fragrances and to spread abroad Thy teachings amongst the choicest of Thy people.  AB00169

O my Lord! Thou seest me walking in Thy dominion to exalt Thy Word, and speaking among Thy servants what Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book. I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy grace, and by the Lamp which Thou hast protected from tempestuous winds through the glass of Thy strength and power, to ordain for me that which will make me strong through Thy strength and powerful through Thy will, that I may cast upon Thy servants, with wisdom and utterance, that which will draw them nigh unto Thee and sanctify them from the doubts of the people of Thy earth and the insinuations of those who have denied Thy favor.  BH00630

O my God! O my God! Verily, Thy repentant servant hath turned to those far-reaching regions, those distant lands of vast expanse, detached from all save Thee, attracted to Thy remembrance, speaking Thy praise, firm in Thy Covenant and Testament. He calleth the people unto Thee and humbleth himself before Thee. O Lord! Assist him with the hosts of Thy angels in Thy dominion and the armies of Thy Kingdom on Thy earth. O Lord! Illumine his face with the light of Thy favors and inspire his heart with the signs of guidance amidst humanity. Verily, Thou art the Generous, Thou art the Great, and Thou art the All-Merciful, the All-Compassionate.  AB06700

O my God! Thou seest me in my lowliness and weakness, occupied with the greatest undertaking, determined to raise Thy word among the masses and to spread Thy teachings among Thy peoples. How can I succeed unless Thou assist me with the breath of the Holy Spirit, help me to triumph by the hosts of Thy glorious kingdom, and shower upon me Thy confirmations, which alone can change a gnat into an eagle, a drop of water into rivers and seas, and an atom into lights and suns? O my Lord! Assist me with Thy triumphant and effective might, so that my tongue may utter Thy praises and attributes among all people and my soul overflow with the wine of Thy love and knowledge.   AB00209

O God, my God! Thou seest me enraptured and attracted toward Thy glorious kingdom, enkindled with the fire of Thy love amongst mankind, a herald of Thy kingdom in these vast and spacious lands, severed from aught else save Thee, relying on Thee, abandoning rest and comfort, remote from my native home, a wanderer in these regions, a stranger fallen upon the ground, humble before Thine exalted threshold, submissive toward the heaven of Thine omnipotent glory, supplicating Thee in the dead of night and at the break of dawn, entreating and invoking Thee at morn and at eventide to graciously aid me to serve Thy Cause, to spread abroad Thy teachings and to exalt Thy Word throughout the East and the West.   AB00049

O my Lord, my Hope, my Refuge, and my Desire! I prostrate my face in the dust and press my brow against the threshold of Thy sanctity. O Lord of the brilliant signs! Illumine the hearts with the lights of Thy love in these days which gleam and shine with the light of the Covenant in the midst of the horizons, that they may guide people to Thy straight path, spread Thy teachings in the most excellent way, diffuse Thy traces throughout those regions, enlighten eyes with the brilliance of lights, delight ears with hearing proof and demonstration, expand breasts with abundant bounty, gladden hearts through the dispelling of sorrows, intoxicate spirits with the wine of joy, and spread traces throughout all lands.  AB12112

O God! O God! This is a broken-winged bird and his flight is very slow-assist him so that he may fly toward the apex of prosperity and salvation, wing his way with the utmost joy and happiness throughout the illimitable space, raise his melody in Thy Supreme Name in all the regions, exhilarate the ears with this call, and brighten the eyes by beholding the signs of guidance. O Lord! I am single, alone and lowly. For me there is no support save Thee, no helper except Thee and no sustainer beside Thee. Confirm me in Thy service, assist me with the cohorts of Thine angels, make me victorious in the promotion of Thy Word and suffer me to speak out Thy wisdom amongst Thy creatures. Verily, Thou art the helper of the weak and the defender of the little ones, and verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty and the Unconstrained.  AB00210

My God, my God! This is Thy servant who is humble before Thy sovereignty, lowly before Thy greatness, who turns with all meekness and contrition to the Kingdom of Mysteries. His bones have weakened and his head has been set aflame with hoary hair in servitude at Thy Most Exalted Threshold and in persevering to serve Thee with utmost strength. O Lord! He has found no rest or tranquility, nor has he attained security or joy since Thou didst create him by Thy power among humanity. Rather, each day he has drunk a bitter cup of estrangement from the hands of enemies, yet he praises Thee and thanks Thee publicly for tribulations and hardships. He speaks in praise of Thee and yearns to gaze upon Thee and attain martyrdom before Thee, and to sacrifice his spirit in promotion of Thy manifest Faith and guide people to the straight path.  AB00243

O my God, my Lord and my Hope! I beseech Thee by the cry of them that are nigh unto Thee, by the lamentation of the sincere ones, by the yearning of the lovers, and by the exultation of them that know Thee in Thy love, to preserve him whom Thou hast aided to turn towards Thee and whom Thou hast caused to enter the pavilion of majesty and given to drink from the fountain of bounty and grace. Protect him beneath Thy sheltering care from the oppression of Thy creatures, and grant him always the blessing of Thy tender mercies and the pure waters of Thy loving-kindness. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful, possessed of great favor. Ordain for him that which is best in the hereafter and in this world, and shelter him beneath Thy shade in all Thy worlds. Exalt his station in service to Thy Cause and aid him to teach Thy Faith throughout Thy lands in such wise that through his utterance the ready ones may be guided, the seated ones may arise, and the slumbering ones may be awakened.   BH00852
