

O Lord of the manifest signs! Grant this martyr deliverance from sorrows and bestow upon him the sweet fragrances of joyous days  AB04529

O Lord, make him a star rising in the highest horizon, a lamp shining in the glass of eternity, and a blessed tree in the realm of dust   AB03868

"O my God, my God! Honor his dwelling place and grant his desire and increase the bounty and bestow upon him nearness and the presence"   AB02863


My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the clamor of Thy yearning ones and the cry of those who long for Thee... to forgive me and him who visiteth this station   BH02191

I beg of God to cause spheres of light to descend upon thy sepulchre and the clouds of mercy to shower rains of forgiveness upon thy resting-place and tomb!  AB03065

May the Concourse on High visit the spirits of those blessed souls...May the dwellers of the Most Glorious Kingdom sanctify them and 'Abdu'l-Baha praise them  AB00797



I beseech Thee by them and by their blood to send down from the heaven of Thy mercy relief from Thy presence, peace from Thy side, and compassion from Thy direction.  BH11758

I beseech Thee not to withhold from me that which Thou hast ordained for them who have suffered martyrdom in Thy path and have endured tribulations for love of Thee.   BH09517

O God! Bless me through their blessing, grant me their greeting, gather me with them under Your banner, include me among their company in the Paradise of meeting You   AB00396

Make that demolished house into a prosperous home and make that grieving family joyous and grateful, that they may shine like the sun among all peoples and become a goodly seed   AB02657

Lord, illumine the tomb of that glorious branch and perfume the grave of that unique martyr with the outpouring of Thy mercy streaming down abundantly from the cloud of forgiveness...  AB00478

Lord! Enter him into the Kingdom of Your mercy and the Paradise of Your uniqueness, comfort him through Your grace and favors, and seat him upon the throne of majesty in the Kingdom of Beauty   AB01219

Bless Thou, likewise, as long as Thine own Self endureth and Thine own Essence doth last, them that have suffered martyrdom in Thy path. Thou art, verily, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful.  BH00848

I beseech Thee...to ordain from Thy Most Exalted Pen, for him who hath entered prison for Thy name and borne hardships in Thy path, the reward of one who hath been martyred in Thy good-pleasure.   BH08500

"A prayer of visitation has been written for the martyrs. The friends of God in Sari and Barfurush must certainly recite this prayer of visitation at the illumined resting place of those martyrs"   AB00897

My Lord! Make them brilliant stars in the horizon of eternity, radiant lamps in the supreme height, dazzling signs from the Most Glorious Kingdom, and unfurled banners at the pole of faithfulness.   AB01750

I beseech Thee to ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for them who have tasted the sweetness of utterance from the mouth of Thy Will and who have circled round Thy Cause until they were martyred in Thy path.  BH00795

O Lord! Shelter him in the vicinity of Thy greatest mercy, shade him beneath Thy Lote-Tree of the utmost boundary, make him a warbling bird upon the branches, singing varied melodies in Thy most exalted paradise   AB01780

I beseech God to send down blessing and abundant grace upon everyone who seeks blessing from your pure dust and visits your graves and attains eternal portion throughout endless ages and successive centuries and eras   AB04226

O Lord! Render victorious Thy forbearing servants in Thy days by granting them a befitting victory, inasmuch as they have sought martyrdom in Thy path. Send down upon them that which will bring comfort to their minds...   BB00543

I beseech God to send down every blessing upon the soul that seeks blessing at thy perfumed, fragrant grave and thy purified resting place. Verily my Lord bestows grace upon the martyrs in their resting place of sacrifice   AB04619

O Lord! Aid the kinsmen of the martyrs to serve Thy Cause, to exalt Thy Word, to spread Thy Faith, and to kindle the fire of Thy love in the hearts of Thy servants, and guide through them those who [wander] in the wilderness of error.  AB01659

Glory be unto Thee, O God, my Lord! Send down Thy blessings upon those who have ascended unto Thee with dominion and kingdom. Glory be unto Thee, O God, my Lord! Send down Thy blessings upon those who have ascended unto Thee with power.  BB00003

I beseech Thee, O my God, to send Thy blessings upon Thy Proof, the Martyr in Thy path, as befits Thy praise and glory, and to bestow upon those who were slain before him on the Day of Ashura in this month such honor and bounty as Thou deemest worthy.  BB00019

May God perfume your radiant grave with the outpouring of His abundant mercy, and send down upon your tomb, enveloped in lights, layers of His greatest mercy, and make your shrine adorned with the ornament of glory and your resting place illumined with the light of beauty   AB04956

I beseech God to increase you in blessings and to illuminate your pure and holy grave with the brilliant lights radiating from your luminous countenance, so that every visitor may be blessed by your dust, upon which descends continuous mercy from the Lord of earth and heaven.   AB04964

O Lord! These are the offspring of those noble band, the progeny of those illustrious company, pieces of the hearts of those distinguished group, the lion cubs of those lions from the Valley of Shara. Assist them with Thy confirmations and make them successful through Thy bestowals   AB02181

Lord, make them waves in the ocean of forgiveness, make them hosts in the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, ordain for them every good in the Garden of Good-Pleasure, enable them to enter the scene of vision, and grant them eternal dwelling in the garden of meeting through grace and bounty   AB03057

"O Lord, elevate their stations in the Most Glorious Paradise, illuminate their faces with a brilliant light from the Supreme Concourse, honor their dwelling place in the vicinity of Your great mercy, admit them into Your abundant garden, and immortalize them in Your Paradise of Shelter."   AB00724

O God! Exalt him, make him honored, make him content, let no harm befall him, that he may inhale Your fragrance, discover Your mystery, hasten toward You, reach Your court, and behold Your countenance. O Lord! Accept this pure blood in Your path and in the world above make this soul radiant   AB05410

O Lord! Shelter him in the cave of Thy grace, admit him into the garden of Thy oneness, and grant him the blessing of attaining Thy presence through the endurance of Thy unity and the permanence of Thy self-subsistence. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Merciful, the Compassionate.   AB00186

Lord! Accept from Thy loved ones their spilled blood, their slain bodies, and their oppressed souls. Grant the martyrs an exalted station and a true and faithful tongue. Bestow upon them high degrees and lofty ranks. Grant them the grace of attaining Thy presence and shower them with bounties.  AB12108

Lord, Lord! Illumine his face in the Kingdom of existence for spending his spirit in the realm of witnessing, and distinguish him among the people of prostration with abundant bounty and the praiseworthy station in the seat of truth in the Most Exalted Companion and Your Most Glorious Kingdom.   AB02030

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of utterance that they melt the inmost hearts and cause the hearts to dissolve. God willing, all shall attain to what hath been revealed and shall visit and make mention of the martyred stranger, Ali-A'la, through that which hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen.  BH08502

O Lord! Accept from them these offerings of their souls, multiply Thy bounties unto them, deliver them from destruction, and grant them a goodly life in the Concourse on High. Verily, Thou art the Protector, Thou art the Helper, Thou art the All-Bountiful, Thou art the Kind, the Compassionate, the Merciful.  AB01887

O Lord! Honor the abode of this arrival and incoming guest, and grant him an exalted station in the vicinity of Thy great mercy and the Supreme Companion, in the boundless expanse of Thy forgiving kingdom, vast in its reaches and broad in its scope, which none comprehend save him who is taught by the One mighty in power.  AB00484

O Mother of Muhammad-Mahdi who was martyred in My Most Great, Most Glorious Path! Glory be to Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which earthquakes seized all the tribes of the earth and the dwellers of the cities of creation were struck with terror, to protect Thy male and female servants beneath the shadow of Thy grace and favors   BH08239

O my God, from Thy glory its most glorious, from Thy majesty its most majestic, from Thy beauty its most beautiful, from Thy grandeur its most grand, from Thy light its most luminous, from Thy mercy its most expansive, from Thy words their most perfect, from Thy perfection its most perfect, from Thy names their greatest, from Thy might its mightiest...  BB00395

Send down Thy blessings, O my God, upon the Point through which Thy hidden knowledge and treasured mysteries were detailed, and through whom Thou didst take the covenant of the Dayspring of Thy Being and the Manifestation of the Mystery of Thy Oneness, and upon those who were touched by tribulation and adversity in Thy love until they were martyred in Thy path  BH00160

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to send down upon him in every moment mercy from His presence and loving-kindness from His own Self. Verily He is the Mighty, the Bestower. And we beseech Him, exalted be He, to establish his station in the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree and give him to drink of the Kawthar of immortality from the hands of grace and bounty.   BH01446

"I am content with Thy good-pleasure, O Thou the Beloved of the worlds, and I praise Thee for my son's martyrdom in the year wherein the Son of the Wronged One was martyred in the land of exile. Blessed are the two sons who have attained unto God's remembrance and His Word, and whose names have adorned the Tablet of Creation from the presence of One All-Knowing, All-Wise."   BH01651

O Lord! That good and blessed family sacrificed all it possessed in Thy path, seeking to abide in Thy Kingdom. It surpassed all martyrs in the path of sacrifice. Therefore, assign to it an exalted station, a bountiful reward, delightful blessings, and a pleasing seat of truth in the most glorious Kingdom, that it may be immersed in the seas of light in an infinite holy expanse.   AB00750

I beseech Thee, O God, by what Thou hast created for It before all things - and these are those sanctified names and glorified letters - to send down at this moment upon those who have been martyred in the path of Thy love that which befitteth the loftiness of Thy Countenance and the exaltation of Thy Sovereignty, and to send down Thy blessings upon them from me and from all things   BB00228

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by this martyr who gave up his spirit in Thy path and deposited his body in Thy love between the hands of Thine enemies, and who denied not Thy Manifestation and Thy Revelation and Thy Cause that hath encompassed Thy earth and Thy heaven, to forgive me and my father and my mother and my kinsmen. Then ordain for me the good of the world to come and of this world.  BH01472

O God! My God! Destine for me this lofty station. Bestow upon me that brilliant cup. Give me to drink from the pure wine of that glorious martyrdom, the wine that is sweeter and more delicious than Tasnim and Salsabil: O divine wine of the Remembrance of God. Allow me to join those martyrs and deprive me not of Thy favors except for such as those who are nigh unto thee from amongst the noble ones.  AB00485

O my God, my God! This is Your servant whom You have crowned with the crown of faithfulness, and who hastened to the field of martyrdom with such longing that the Concourse on High were moved to joy. O Lord! Reward him in Your Most Glorious Kingdom and give him to drink from the cup of reunion, and immerse him in the lights of divine manifestation in the gathering place of witnessing and immortality.   AB03552

O Lord! I beseech Thee by them, by their sighs and tears in their longing and yearning, that Thou forgive me and my parents and whosoever hath turned unto Thee, O Lord of the Covenant, on the Day of Separation. O my Lord! I beseech Thee by this most pure sepulcher and this hallowed and purified dust, that Thou ordain for this servant of Thine, by Thy Most Exalted Pen, the good of the hereafter and of this world.   BH00996

Blessed is the one who visits your illumined resting place. Blessed is the one who kisses your purified grave. Blessed is the one who clings to your perfumed shrine. Blessed is the one who inhales your amber-scented dust. Blessed is the one who serves your tomb which surpasses the most fragrant musk. Blessed is the one who lights the lamp in your lofty portico. Blessed is the one who adorns your wondrous resting place.   AB03275

I beseech Thee, by the loftiness of Thy grace and the sublimity of Thy mercy, to remember me before God, Thy Lord, and to remember those who are martyrs from Thy presence, then those who were martyred in the path of Thy love, who gave up their souls in ardent devotion to Thy Cause, who ascended unto God through their detachment in Thy love, and who attained what is with God through their attraction to obedience unto Thee.   BB00053

My God, my God! These are the remnants of Thy loved ones who have striven with their wealth and souls in Thy path. Lord! They made themselves targets for arrows out of love for Thy Beauty and bore spears out of longing to meet Thee and yearning for Thy good-pleasure. Lord! They shed their blood in Thy path and gave their spirits in Thy love and sacrificed their souls and wealth and children in attraction to Thy Kingdom...   AB01015

Clothe them, O my God, with the robe of Thy favor and the raiment of Thy loving providence, which Thou hast reserved for Thine own Self and woven with the hands of Thy manifold bounties and gifts. Give them, then, to drink, from the hands of Thy loving-kindness, of the cups of Thy measureless mercy. Cause them, moreover, O my Best-Beloved, to abide within the precincts of Thy court and around Thy most effulgent Tabernacle.   BH04745

O my God! Send Thy blessings upon Thy loved ones and trusted ones and friends through whom were raised the standards of Thy victory and the banners of Thy power, and through whom Thy signs were spread abroad and Thy proof was made manifest and Thy evidence became all-encompassing - those whom nothing whatsoever prevented from drawing nigh unto Thee, who strove in Thy path with true striving and aided Thy Cause with true aid   BH01753

I beseech Thee therefore, O my God, by the hearts that have glorified Thy Essence morning and evening, by the spirits that have prostrated themselves before Thy Being at eventide and dawn, by the souls that have unified Thy camphor-like nature in the vessel of night and the extremities of day, and by the bodies that have submitted themselves before Thee between Thy hands through what Thou hast cast into them of awe and detachment   BB00147

O Lord, accept from them this great gift and make these two deliverance for those lost in the wasteland of waywardness, aid them reach the dawning-place of Thy effulgent, enter them into the celestial paradise of Thy union in all the worlds of light and abide them in Thy resplendent Kingdom. O Lord, bestow upon them through Thy generosity and grace all that Thou has decreed in the Kingdom of Thy Light and grant patience upon those related to them.   AB05019

Thus doth God recompense those who have martyred themselves in His path, and who are assured of God and His signs. Say: Whoso is martyred in the path of God, God will assuredly exalt him in the life to come and in this life, for He hath power over all things. Say: God hath ordained for those who are martyred in His path that He shall exalt their mention in this life and in the life to come, and shall cause them to enter the seats of light from His presence.  BB00003

Say: O God of Names and Creator of earth and heaven! We beseech Thee by this martyr who sacrificed himself in these days to manifest Thy Cause and exalt Thy Word, to send down upon Thy loved ones and chosen ones that which will preserve them from the claws of heedlessness and doubt. Then give them to drink, from the hand of Thy bounty, the Kawthar of certitude. Verily Thou art the Giver, the Bestower. There is no God but Thee, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.  BH01154

O my God! Send down Thy blessings upon the hearts that have grieved in Thy path, and upon the bodies that have endured patiently for Thy good-pleasure, and upon the souls that have yearned for Thee in their love for Thee, and upon the hearts that have ascended unto Thee through their devotion to Thee - blessings that have no equal in Thy knowledge and no likeness in Thy Book, blessings that fill Thy heaven and Thy earth and all things that have been created through Thy will.  BB00086

O Lord, Lord! Verily Thy servant Muhammad-'Ali was attracted to Thy glorious Kingdom and enkindled with the fire of Thy love, aware of the hidden mystery. The arrow of the people of error struck him and he fell prostrate on the field of battle though he had no part in the conflict, but was innocent of all strife and combat. But when the cavalry attacked by day and night, and fired bullets with no escape possible, at that time Thy penitent servant fell to the earth, prostrate and slain.   AB00071

Glory be unto Thee, O my God, O God of Manifestation and the One revealed upon the Branch of Sinai! I beseech Thee by this Light that hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of detachment, whereby was established the decree of trust and resignation throughout creation, and by the bodies that were dismembered in Thy path, and by the hearts that were melted in Thy love, and by the blood that was shed in the land of submission before Thy face, to forgive those who have turned toward this Most Exalted Station and this Most High Summit   BH00537

O God, my God, creator of me and of the heavens, I beseech Thee by the pearls of the ocean of Thy Oneness, by the mysteries of Thy Book, and by lamentation of Thy loved ones in their separation from Thee, and by the tears of the pure ones on their remoteness from Thee, I invoke thee, O Thou Lord of indomitable Strength, by this sacred Tomb and by this exalted Shrine [Vahid's], to forgive me and my father, and all those who for Thy sake have approach these sacred remains, and all those who have come and will come on pilgrimage to this spot.   BH02591

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Glory be unto Thee, O my heart's Desire! Glory be unto Thee, O my Hope! I beseech Thee by the blood of these souls and the pieces of their bodies, by their steadfastness, their patience and their forbearance, by their being enkindled with the fire of Thy love and their turning toward the light of Thy countenance, by their remembrance and their devotion in Thy days, by their sacrifice of their spirits in Thy path, and by their submissiveness and humility before the manifestations of Thy commandments and Thy laws, to adorn the hearts of the peoples with the light of Thy love and Thy knowledge.   BH01271

O holy breath and merciful spirit that surrounds thy luminous shrine and thy purified tomb, and whose sweet fragrance wafts over thy radiant dust and purified body! I testify that thou didst sacrifice thy spirit and body in the path of God, didst hasten to the place of sacrifice, and didst endure the arrows of the enemies and the spears of hatred out of love for God. Thou didst never weaken nor falter in exalting the Word of God. My spirit be a sacrifice unto thee, and my soul be a ransom for thee! I beseech God to perfume my nostrils with the holy fragrances that waft from thy luminous shrine and thy spiritual body. May the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the Most Glorious Kingdom send their blessings upon thee throughout the hours of night and day. I beseech God to encompass thy visitors with the glance of His loving-kindness at all times. And upon thee be the Most Glorious Glory!  AB11225

O my Lord, my God! This servant of Thine, Mandeh-'Ali, was attracted by Thy holy fragrances with such rapture that he yearned to sacrifice himself in Thy path and longed for annihilation in Thy love. He drank the supreme chalice of martyrdom out of love for Thy beauty and desire to attain Thy presence. Lord! He endured tribulations and calamities, plunged into an ocean of ordeals, and suffered hardships that no soul could bear. He remembered Thee day and night, worshipped Thee morning and evening, and ceased not to make mention of Thee at dawn and dusk. He ever spoke Thy praise, supplicated before Thee, placed his trust in Thee, and yearned to ascend unto the realm of mysteries, the dawning-place of lights, until he sacrificed his soul with all eagerness and attraction. O Lord! Ordain for him entry into the Paradise of refuge, eternal life in the supreme Paradise, the enjoyment of Thy favors in the highest heaven, and grant him an exalted station.  AB06607
