
O Thou Whose tests are a healing medicine to such as are nigh unto Thee  BH08600

Beseech God to remove our anguish and bring us relief. Verily there is no God but Him.   BH08064

O Thou Divine Spirit! Descend and behold how my humiliation is greater than Thy Glory!   ABU3328

Keep safe Thy servants and Thy handmaidens, O my Lord, from the darts of idle fancy and vain imaginings   BH10578

O Lord, deliver us from all temptations, tests and evil suggestions of those who turned their faces from Thee.  BH10138

O God! Severe are Thy tests and Thy trials demolish foundations stronger than iron. Guard us and grant us strength.   AB05364

Verily, in both cases we must supplicate and implore and commune to the divine Threshold in order to be patient in ordeals.  AB08453

I beseech Thee to preserve me from the tyrannous ones among Thy servants who have turned away from Thy beauty and denied Thy signs   BH01780

O Lord my God! O Thou All-Praised, Most Holy, Most Merciful and Beneficent One! Remove our difficulties through Thy favor and bestowal.   BB00633

"O God, my God! Be Thou not far from me, for tribulation upon tribulation hath gathered about me... for my sins have utterly doomed me."   BH02101

Therefore, O my God, through Thy bounty and favor, deliver me, and then, O my God, free me from his clutches. Verily, Thou art powerful over all things.   BH10622

"comfort me in the terror of solitude and the supreme ordeal, and rescue me from the shock of deprivation and the burning anguish of separation and exile"   AB06502

"From the pit thou shalt rise to the summit of glory and from the narrow confines of this incarceration thou shalt ascend to soul-entrancing gardens and meadows."  AB05781

The doors of hope have been shut against the hearts that long for Thee, O my Lord! Their keys are in Thy hands; open them by the power of Thy might and Thy sovereignty.   BH06576

O Lord! O Lord! O Lord! Relieve the distress of Thy loved ones among Thy servants and handmaidens, and remove their anguish through Thy bounty and grace.  BH11488

Aid me through Your grace and bounty from the Supreme Concourse and raise me to the Most Exalted Horizon, that I may find rest from the assaults of enemies and the stones cast by the criticism of the loved ones.   AB03281

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the Ark of Thy Cause did sail upon the ocean of Thy will, that Thou mayest deliver me from my condition, purify my heart through Thy knowledge, and make me steadfast in Thy Cause and Thy love.  BH05427

I beseech Thee therefore, O my Beloved, by Him Whom Thou hast made the Ruler over all contingent beings and the Sovereign over all who dwell in the earths and the heavens, that Thou mayest purify my heart from the whisperings of Satan   BH07165

"there was constant supplication and entreaty to the Divine Kingdom that He may preserve and protect the friends of God from all afflictions in the shelter of His protection and ordain means for you to be completely and quickly freed from debts to foreigners"  AB02890

I beseech Thee, O my God, by the light of Thy countenance whereby earth and heaven were illumined, to send down from the heaven of Thy grace that which shall gladden the hearts of Thy loved ones after this sorrow which hath clouded the pure wine of assurance in Thy days.   BH09088

Write down, then, for such as have been afflicted with adversities for Thy sake, the reward of those who have suffered martyrdom in the path of Thy good-pleasure. Send down, moreover, upon them, O Lord, that which will rejoice their hearts, solace their eyes, and exhilarate their souls.  BH09621

O Lord! Thou art the Remover of every anguish and the Dispeller of every affliction. Thou art He Who banisheth every sorrow and setteth free every slave, the Redeemer of every soul. O Lord! Grant deliverance through Thy mercy and reckon me among such servants of Thine as have gained salvation.   BB00630

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Most Great Name and the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge, O Lord of eternity, to deliver Thy loved ones from the evil of every oppressor. Then preserve them, O my God, through Thy grace and Thy hosts and Thy sovereignty, and ordain for them that which will draw them nigh unto Thee.  BH03502

Then for deliverance from every difficulty: Thee do we worship and Thine aid we seek. Then for seeking guidance: Guide us to the straight path. Then for glory: Thou givest glory to whom Thou pleasest and abasest whom Thou pleasest. Then for drawing nigh unto whomsoever thou pleaseth: Faces shall be humbled before the Living, the Self-Subsisting.  BB00032

Then I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Name through which sorrow is transformed into joy, hardship into ease, and darkness into light, that Thou mayest send down, O my God, at this moment that which will dispel our sorrows and sever us from all else besides Thee, O Thou in Whose hand are bounty and benevolence, and the dominion of might and forgiveness.   BH00677

O my Lord, the Mighty, the Loving! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Beautiful Names and by Thy Beauty that hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy Most Glorious Name, to make me among those whom tribulation hath not kept back from Thy direction nor decree from turning toward Thy face. Then write down for me what is best for me. Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Generous.  BH11830

O Lord! The horizons have been straitened for me, and the doors of hope have been shut before me, and ease hath been changed to hardship, and every facility hath become difficult, and every grief and sorrow hath appeared. O Lord! O Lord! I beseech Thee by the eternity of Thy Being and the might of Thy Self-Subsistence not to leave me, O my God, in this state which would move even the hard rock to compassion.  AB00233

O my God, O my God! My tribulations have become grievous and my troubles and pain have increased and I have fallen in the greatest of calamities. O my God! Enable me to be patient, contented and pleasing unto Thee, full confident in Thy grace and mercy, mentioning Thy praises, thanking Thee upon all the tribulations that come to me, yearning Thy presence, attracted to Thy beauty, ignited with the fire of Thy love.  AB03737

Glorified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by this Name, which hath been encompassed by tribulations from all directions and upon which calamities have descended from every quarter, to such extent that it findeth no helper in Thy earth nor any succorer in Thy dominion, that Thou mayest ease for this people the pangs of travail, preserve them therefrom, deliver them from this hardship, and transform it into comfort and tranquility.  BH10328

O my God, my God! Thou knowest and seest what hath befallen the Wronged One in His days. I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Prophets, Thy chosen ones and Thy trusted ones, to send down from the heaven of Thy bounty a blessing upon Thy loved ones and a mercy upon them through Thy grace, Thy generosity and Thy bounty. O my Lord! Change poverty into wealth, hardship into ease, and darkness into light. Verily Thou art the One Who hath power over whatsoever He willeth.  BH11923

O Lord, O Lord! Let me drink from the cup overflowing with the wine of tribulation in the path of Baha, and plunge me into the depths of the seas of hardship in Thy love, O Lord of the Most Beautiful Names. Ordain not for me a day wherein I taste not the deadly poison in Thy love, O my Generous Lord. Were it not for tribulation in Thy path, what would my life profit me and how would it differ from my death? For tribulation is provision for my heart, my rest upon my bed, my companion in wakefulness, and my joy in slumber.   AB01399

My God, my God! Thou seest me standing at Thy sacred threshold, supplicating Thee and humbled before Thy door. I call upon Thee with my spirit and my heart, and commune with Thee with my soul and my tongue, saying: My God, my God! Verily Thy servant Husayn hath fallen into an affliction at which the peoples of both East and West are dismayed, and hath been tried with a trial that bringeth sorrow to his parents, nay, that grieveth the hearts of all who love him, even from the farthest lands of East and West, causing tears to flow from every eye.  AB01396

O Lord! Have mercy upon my solitude and my anguish, comfort me in my loneliness, and show compassion to me in my estrangement and distress. O Lord! My tongue is weary of remembrance due to the intensity of my sorrows, and my understanding falls short due to my scattered thoughts. I have no refuge to which I might repair, nor any shelter wherein I might take protection. O Lord! Fulfill what Thou hast promised me and bring to pass that wherewith Thou hast assured me, for I am at my wit's end with my tribulation, and my anguish and affliction have intensified.  AB00047

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having given me to drink from that cup whereof Thy loved ones have drunk, from which Thy Prophets and Messengers have been refreshed, and which the essences of being among Thy chosen ones have sought after. Thou hast, through Thy grace, bounty and favor, given me to drink therefrom and strengthened me to bear this Cause which Thou hast made a test for the weak, a mercy for the chosen ones, a healing for the breasts of the near ones, a light for the eyes of the righteous, and glad-tidings for the hearts of those enkindled with the fire of Thy love, O Thou Who art the Beloved of the hearts of them that love Thee!  AB01198

O my God, my God! Your love has set me ablaze, and my remoteness from the shore of Your nearness has consumed me, causing my veins to be severed and my liver to melt. I beseech You by Your Prophets and Your chosen ones, by the mysteries of Your Kingdom and Your Dominion, and by the Mother Book which none has known save You, to aid me in that which You love and are pleased with, and to assist me in serving Your chosen ones and Your loved ones. Then grant me the best of what You have revealed in Your Book. O Lord! You see that hardship has encompassed me and difficulty has seized me. Where is Your ease, O Master of existence, and Your repose, O Sovereign of the seen and unseen?   BH00616
