
O Lord! We are poor - make us wealthy  AB10446


Make the poor rich from the treasure of the Kingdom.  AB04172

"Then ordain for me the good of this world and the next."  BH05602

Through God's grace, I also seek worldly comfort for thee.  AB06695

For each one We seek bounty and blessing and wealth and glory.   BH02620

O Lord! They are poor - enrich them from the treasures of Thy Kingdom  AB12360

Soon the Lord will extenuate thy straightened circumstances even in this world.  AB03258

Make every needy one wealthy...Guide every poor one to the treasury of the spirit  AB07374


decree for me, O my God, that which shall profit me in this world and the world to come   BH09967

Grant him means and bestow upon him wealth, grant him true riches from Thy celestial treasury  AB12715


O Lord! Send down upon them Thy blessing and recompense them with benevolence, bounty and abundant wealth  AB12558

Send down upon them a blessing from Your heaven and make them treasuries of wealth and mines of faithfulness  AB00935

I beseech Thee...to open before my face the doors of Thy mercy and Thy bestowal and Thy grace and Thy wealth   BH10093

Do not deprive the poor one from the gate of Thy riches, and do not forbid him from the ocean of Thy bestowals  BH09598

We beseech God to grant thee what thou hast desired from the heaven of His bounty and the ocean of His bestowals  BH10435

I beseech Thee to write down for me that which will make me rich through Thy riches and mighty through Thy might  BH06020

to facilitate thy hopes, to transform hardship into ease, and to prepare for thee a way of right guidance in thy affairs  AB12577

We beseech God to aid her, prosper her, and ordain for her what shall be best for her in the Hereafter and in this world.   BH01449

We beseech God to assist thee and ordain for thee that which shall gladden thine eyes and the eyes of them that love thee.   BH09651

The servant asks his Lord to open upon your faces the doors of blessing and bounty and that whereby your hearts may rejoice.   BH02008

From the favors of the Lord of Bounties, I beseech that the doors of blessing may open and abundance of sustenance become manifest.  AB08602

We beseech God, glorified be His majesty, to make it blessed and to make the ultimate consequences of the journey the greatest good.   BH10097

I beseech from the threshold of the Most Holy One abundant blessings for you so that the means of expanded livelihood may be provided  AB06058

Lord! Turn me not away from the ocean of Thy wealth and the heaven of Thy mercy, and ordain for me the good of this world and hereafter.  BH06026

O my Lord! Thou seest the poor one who has sought the gate of Thy riches - I beseech Thee not to disappoint him of what lies with Thee.   BH05567

I beseech Thee to shower blessings upon this new company, to expand its resources, and to open before it the gates of ease and expansion  AB12779

to ordain for Thy loved ones the good of this world and of the world to come. Then open before their faces the doors of Thy grace and blessing   BH10856

I beseech Thee to ordain for this servant, who hath clung to the hem of Thy generosity, that which shall profit him in this world and the next.  BH08831

O God! Make these poor ones wealthy and these oppressed ones honored. Grant these wandering ones stability and these sorrowful ones eternal joy  AB01612

I beseech God to shower all good upon you and your family and children, and that the glance of God's favor may surround them from all directions.  AB09621

In all conditions, I have asked and continue to ask from the Self-Sufficient, the Exalted, for health, honor and bounty for that spiritual friend.  BH03267

O Lord! Assist them all to achieve all hopes and open before them the door of comfort and ease. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bestower  AB06154

And praise be to God, the prayer and request for blessing in the commerce of the loved ones was answered at the Sacred Threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB08368

I beseech Thee by Thy mercy which hath preceded all existence, both seen and unseen, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in every world of Thy worlds.   BH10060

Then open before their faces the doors of Thy riches. O Lord! Thou seest them holding fast to the cord of Thy bounty and clinging to the hem of Thy generosity.  BH01844

We beseech Him to open before thy face the gates of bounty and bestowal, and to cause to descend from the clouds of His mercy the rains of glory and exaltation.   BH05204

"O my Lord! I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and the mysteries of Thy Book to ordain for me that which will benefit me in my life and after my death."   BH05417

Moreover, I beseech Thee, O Lord of eternity, by the Most Great Name through which Thou hast illumined the world, to ordain for me the good of this world and the world to come.   BH02527

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word whereby Thou hast guided Thy servants and drawn them nigh unto Thee, that Thou write down for me the good of this world and the world to come   BH08509

and beseech Him, exalted be He, to open before thy face the gates of joy and delight, and to send down upon thee from the heaven of His grace that which befitteth His generosity and favors   BH06392

I beseech Thee by Thy Hidden Book, which none has comprehended save Thyself, to ordain for this handmaiden of Thine and Thy other handmaiden the good of the world to come and of this world.   BH07336

Then accept from them what they desired in Thy love and good-pleasure, and ordain for them the good of this world and the world to come through Thy bounty and favors and care and loving-kindness.  BH08155

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the heaven of Thy clear proofs and the sun of Thy favors to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of the hereafter and of the first life  BH05950

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Dominant over all names, and by Thy sovereignty which hath encompassed all things, to open before my face the door of Thy bounties, favors and gifts.  BH01643

Soon will He open the doors of prosperity upon the faces of His loved ones and His friends with the keys of His gifts and favors. Verily He is the Powerful, the Almighty, and worthy to answer prayer.   BH06814

O my Lord! Have mercy upon Thy servant who hath turned unto Thee and hath clung to the hem of the robe of Thy bounty. Then ordain for him that which shall profit him in this world and the world to come.   BH07387

O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Encompassing over all things, to ordain for me that which shall profit me in this world and the next, and shall establish me in Thy service amongst Thy creatures.  BH10905

I beseech Thee, O Thou Lord of the worlds, by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the mysteries of Thy Book, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and of the world to come.   BH07235

I beseech Thee by the Word which Thou hast made a sword for the polytheists and a mercy for them that believe in Thy unity, to ordain for me through Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and of the world to come.   BH07177

make their affairs easy, strengthen their backs, reinforce their support, perpetuate their glory, grant them the good of this world and the next...increase the abundance of their sustenance and the elevation of their station   AB05010

O my God, my Lord, and my Support! Ordain for Thy loved ones that which will gladden their hearts and minds, and transform their losses into profit in Thy days. Then assist them through Thy bounty, O Thou Who art the Lord of existence.  BH11416


I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the Dawn, by the pearls of the ocean of Thy knowledge and by the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge and the penetration of Thy Command and the power of Thy Pen, to ordain for me what is best in this world and the next  BH07000


I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the banners of Thy signs to ordain for me the good of the hereafter and of the first life. Verily Thou art the Protector of all beings. There is none other God but Thee, the Compassionate, the Generous.   BH04714

Lord! Their businesses have been shaken, their earnings diminished, and their affairs scattered, so gather what is scattered by Thy grace, O Giver, O Provider, and change their hardship to ease, their difficulty to comfort, bless them with abundant life and happiness  AB00850

Lord! Pitiful are we, grant us Thy favor; poor, bestow upon us a share from the ocean of Thy wealth; needy, do Thou satisfy us; abased, give us Thy glory. The fowls of the air and the beasts of the field receive their meat each day from Thee, and all beings partake of Thy care and loving-kindness.   AB00431

I entreat Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Most Great Name whereby Thou didst separate light from fire, and truth from denial, to send down upon me and upon such of my loved ones as are in my company the good of this world and of the next. Supply us, then, with Thy wondrous gifts that are hid from the eyes of men.  BH07661

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and the effulgences of the Day-Star of Thy grace, to open before my face and the faces of my children the doors of Thy mercy and loving-kindness, and to ordain for us from the Pen of destiny that which shall profit us in every world of Thy worlds  BH02205

O Kind Lord! This group of farmers are Your friends and they till the soil in the field of Your near servant. O Lord Who bestows bounty! Make easy the blessings, grant sustenance, and bestow gifts. In this year fulfill the hopes of these men, cause the rain of heaven to pour down, and grant abundance and plenty.  AB05367

O Lord, his patience is exhausted from hardship, and his tribulation has intensified through poverty, and he is afflicted with adversity after prosperity and constriction after ease, and he has no patience left for this trial. Therefore open unto him the gates of heaven and grant him through Thy mercy from Thy bounties, and transform his hardship into ease and affluence  AB02302

"My Lord, these are servants who have spent their wealth in Thy path and have given what they possess in Thy love so that good may be established among Thy creation and that the cooperation and mutual assistance which Thou hast commanded Thy servants in Thy Books and Tablets may come to pass. My Lord, accept from them this spending and send down upon them a blessing from Thee in this radiant age"  AB04952

I beseech Thee by the Divine Lote-Tree and its branches, O Lord of all beings, to ordain for me from the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy grace that which I desire. My Lord! Everything testifieth to Thy bounty and grace. Thou beholdest me turning unto Thee and clinging to the hem of Thy generosity, Thy mercy and Thy favor. Ordain for me through Thy pen of destiny that which will render me independent through Thy riches.   BH04409

O God! O Bestower of gifts, Remover of veils, Enricher of the poor, Provider for the weak, Quickener of decayed bones, Opener of the gates of bounty and blessings to all nations! I beseech You by Your Most Great Name and by the mystical symbol to open upon us the gates of blessings from all directions, and make for us a way out, and provide for us from whence we know not, and enrich us through Your riches, O All-Possessing One, O Generous One, O Gracious One! Make for us a sign of blessing, manifest and evident to all eyes, and illumine our faces with the lights of bounty, and open for us the treasures of mercy in hearts, of divine gifts in spirits, and of wealth in bodies. Verily You are the Bestower, the All-Bountiful.  AB07162
