I beseech God to grant the reward of pilgrimage. Verily our Lord is the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH01566

We beseech God to assist him to visit His House and draw him nigh unto Him and enable him to do that which He loves and is pleased with.   BH09708

I have composed a prayer for His honor the Servant to recite in the Holy Shrine. When thou goest for pilgrimage, give it to them to read.  AB11255

"Their souls have yearned for the luminous spot and their hearts have longed for the white land"   AB11641

"O my God, my Lord, my Support! I beseech Thee, by this most pure sepulcher, to ordain for me and for them that visit it the good of this world and the world to come."  BH05603

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Preserve Thou Thy loved ones who have sought to attain Thy presence and to visit Thy Beauty, and who have therefore traversed the paths of land and sea in heat and cold.   BH09853

O my Lord! This is a servant who hath turned toward the Kingdom of Thy mercifulness and held fast to the cord of Thy lordship and been honored at the Blessed Spot. O my Lord! Make him to be embraced by the glances of the eye of Thy mercy.   AB07103

O my God, my God! Thou seest Thy sincere servants in religion and Thy near ones who are attracted to the manifest Light. They have traversed plains, heights and valleys, crossed rivers, deserts and mountains, plunging through the depths of seas to reach the Spot of Light   AB00642

O my Lord! I have desired Thy presence and Thy meeting, and to stand before Thy door which hath been opened unto all who are in Thy heaven and on Thine earth... Accept, then, what I have done and perform in Thy path out of longing for Thy beauty and passionate love for Thee.   BH04099

I implore God to illumine this blessed ground with a light radiating from the Kingdom of Abha and to confirm those who make pilgrimages to this holy ground through the grace of His Mercy, supplicating God to pardon and forgive their sins and to admit them into the depths of the sea of His Mercy forever.   AB00785

These are Thy servants who have left their homes out of longing to meet Thee, and have forsaken their native lands yearning for the court of Thy mighty throne, the visitation of Thy beauty and presence before Thee. They have been prevented therefrom by reason of what the hands of Thy creatures have wrought   BH01115

I beseech God that the results and effects of your privilege of visiting the Sacred Shrine become manifest and apparent, and in that clime the fragrances of the Paradise of Delights may waft and the breeze of divine gifts may blow from the direction of grace, clothing the friends in garments of joy from head to toe   AB06785

O Lord! This servant of Thine has hastened from the furthest lands to Thy fragrant and radiant Threshold, that he might prostrate himself before Thee in worship, O Lord of Lords! Lord, open the doors before his face, bestow upon him through Thy mercy beyond measure, make his affairs prosper in their beginning and end   AB06557

Thou seest me having departed from my homeland, making for Thy most exalted Station and Thy most glorious Horizon, that I might attain presence before Thy countenance...I bear witness, O my God, my Purpose and my Desire, that Thou didst strengthen me and assist me until I traversed land and sea and attained unto Thy gate  BH07217

O Thou Who rulest over whatsoever Thou willest! Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Thou seest a servant from among Thy servants who hath left his home, turning towards Thy countenance and drawing nigh unto the ocean of Thy mercy and the heaven of Thy grace, until he attained Thy presence and stood before Thy face and heard Thy verses.   BH07673

Say: My God, my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the hearts of Thy servants and illumined their hearts with the light of Thy knowledge, to enable me to visit Thy Sacred House and to act in such wise as would cause my remembrance to endure amongst all remembrances. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Supreme, the All-Choosing.  BH11898

My God, my God! This is a bird that has flown from the nests of its homeland, seeking the flight-realm of the holy birds in the luminous spot. Its wings have grown weary, and its primary and secondary feathers have become exhausted, until it alighted in this verdant garden and was honored to move to these groves and meadows that bring joy to eyes and vision.   AB06556

O Lord! Accept from him his circumambulation around the refuge of Thy angels in the morning and evening, and the dawning-place of the dwellers of the highest paradise, and the resort of the holy temples in the early hours and at sunset. Aid him and strengthen him and make all his hopes easy of fulfillment and make his feet firm in the Covenant and Testament.   AB07179

I know not, O my God and my Lord, whether Thou hast ordained for Thy servant to turn toward the lights of Thy countenance, to stand before Thy throne, to stand at Thy gate, and to enter the place which Thou hast made the circling-point of Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers, or whether Thy irrevocable decree hath prevented me from this most great bounty, O Master of nations.   BH01533

O my God! O my God! This is Thy servant who hath turned his face toward Thee, hath put his trust in Thee, hath believed in Thee and in Thy most wonderful Verses. Verily he hath traversed seas and countries, making his way to the holy and radiant Land and the fragrant and exalted Threshold, prostrating himself before Thy most exalted Word and drawing nigh unto Thy most lofty Court of mercifulness.   AB07858

O my Lord! This is a branch from among the branches of Thy Tree of Divine Unity, and a twig from among the twigs of the Tree of Thy Oneness. He has arisen to represent Thy servant and has visited Thy Sacred House and circled round Thy holy sanctuary, O my Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing. O Lord! Ordain for him abundant reward and great bounty in Thy Most Glorious Kingdom and Thy exalted Companion. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Most High.   AB00140

O my God! Thou seest my state and knowest my words. Thy knowledge of me sufficeth without my asking. I beseech Thee by the blood of the martyrs, the tears of the lovers, the sighs of the sincere ones, and the lamentations of the yearning ones, that Thou protect Thy servant who hath visited Thy Sacred House, attained unto the Sacred Monument and Station, stood before Thy gate, and answered Thy call. Shield him beneath Thy protection from the evil of the wicked among Thy creation. Grant him the good of this world and the next, and the life-giving waters of Thy grace, O Lord of all beings!  BH09658
