

Be well-wishers of the government and pray for the protection and preservation of state and nation.  AB07216

In gatherings of remembrance and places of worship, seek confirmation for the government. Pray for the throne of sovereignty.  AB00551

O God, Almighty Protector! O Thou Who art the confirmer of every just power and equitable empire in eternal glory, everlasting power, continuance and greatness! Strengthen with the abundance of Thy mercy every government which acts with equity towards its subjects, and every dominion under whose flag the poor and weak find protection. AB06000

We beseech the True One that He may illumine His Majesty the Shah of Iran, may God strengthen him, with the effulgent lights of the Sun of Justice.   BH01118

it is obligatory upon all the friends of God, by the decisive sacred text of the All-Merciful, to pray wholeheartedly for His Majesty the just King   AB00886

We beseech God to reinforce the princes and sovereigns with the hosts of wisdom and utterance, and to guide them to His manifest and conspicuous Path   BH04514

We beseech God to assist His Majesty the Sultan to spread the banner of justice, victorious in all circumstances over aspirations, and to support his royal throne   AB11737

The divine friends must pray day and night and supplicate for confirmation and increased divine assistance for the precious person of His Highness the Crown Prince.  AB04682

we make supplications and entreaties at the Threshold of the One God, and we beseech for the government assistance, protection, aid, bounty, safeguarding and deliverance  AB12299

At the beginning of the gathering they should specifically pray for success for His Imperial Majesty and seek complete confirmation for His Excellency the Prime Minister.  AB01526

All the friends must engage night and day in offering prayers of gratitude for this justice and kindness, serving His Majesty the Shah with sincere prayers and truthfulness.   AB05739

It behooveth Us and thee and the loved ones to beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to protect His Majesty the Sultan and to aid him with the hosts of the unseen and the visible.  BH01338

Night and day supplicate and implore at the threshold of the Divine Unity, and seek confirmation that the throne of sovereignty may endure and the royal court remain firm and established.   AB02771

O Almighty God! Confirm the Greatest Emperor George V, through Thy divine confirmations, and strengthen him by Thy merciful power, and perpetuate his protecting shadow upon this noble land.  ABU2813

It is incumbent upon all the friends to occupy themselves with prayers for the perpetuity of this mighty government and praise His Majesty the King and seek enduring glory for the just leaders  AB05081

O Lord! Support the throne of the great ancient sovereignty and aid Thy servant who sits upon the mighty royal seat. Verily, Thou art powerful over what Thou willest, and Thou art the Strong, the Mighty.  AB10937

O Lord, assist the center of the conquering sovereignty and the pivot of the sphere of brilliant government with Thy manifest confirmations and complete success. Verily Thou art the Strong, the Powerful, the Mighty.   AB00382

"Today it is incumbent and obligatory upon all to aid the manifest religion through prayer, that perchance cities and lands may be preserved from the oppression of the idolaters and the transgressions of the deniers."  BH01807

Therefore, constantly show humility and supplication to the peerless God and seek His aid and favor, and seek the success and victory of that leader. Know the value of this blessing and count this ease and comfort as a bounty.   AB01716

O Lord! Aid His Majesty the Sul?an to assist the oppressed that he may protect them from the evil of their enemies. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest and Thou art the Mighty, the All-Conquering, the All-Powerful.   BH02816

We beseech Thee by Thy conquering power, Thy resplendent might, Thy perfect sovereignty, Thy manifest grandeur, Thy brilliant lights and Thy evident signs, to aid the sovereign of this land and assist the ruler of these cities and regions...   AB01756

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word, through which all things were attracted, to illumine the heart of the sovereign with the light of Thy knowledge and to aid him to manifest Thy justice amongst Thy servants.  BH10434

O my Lord! Aid Thou the Most Great Emperor George V, the King of England, through Thine unfailing help and Divine assistance. Preserve Thou its [England] sheltering shadow over this glorious region through Thine aid, protection and preservation.  AB09762

O Almighty God! Confirm the greatest Emperor, George V. through thy divine confirmation and strengthen him by thy merciful power and perpetuate his protecting shadow upon this noble land. This we ask through thy help and assistance and protection.  AB07843

I beseech God, glorified be His majesty, for health, well-being, glory and elevation for the gentlemen... And we ask God to protect him with His hosts and to aid him in that whereby his mention shall endure in the Supreme Concourse and the Most Exalted Paradise.   BH02926

The one God is witness that the tongues of these prisoners and confined ones are occupied night and day in praying for your excellency's life, felicity, and prosperity. At every moment, we beseech the True One to increase your life, your felicity, and your glory.  BH06618

We beseech God that you may be assisted and confirmed at all times and under all conditions to serve that great monarch and to secure the rights of nations and justice and equity among peoples, and to render outstanding services to the eternal throne of sovereignty.  AB07072

I will continually pray that the glances of divine mercy may encompass that respected group, and that this incident - namely the assistance and care shown by the officials of the just government - may be recorded and preserved as a brilliant page in Baha'i history.   AB05795

At any rate, we pray for the President and supplicate comfort and ease for him so that he may perhaps perceive Divine Breathings, may in the latter days of his life attain a new life, attach his heart to the Kingdom of God and get rid of the painful thoughts of this world.  AB03694

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and by the mysteries treasured within Thy knowledge to aid the sovereign to turn unto Thee and to illumine him, O my God, with the light of Thy justice and to adorn him with the ornament of equity through Thy power and might and grandeur.  BH01874

O my God, my God! Aid the rulers of the earth and its learned ones to look upon what Thou hast manifested with justice and fairness. Then assist them, O my God, in that which will profit them in all the worlds of Thy worlds. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Choosing.   BH00760

O God! Assist this victorious and mighty King with Thy invisible confirmations, and aid him with heavenly assistance. Protect him from the evil of enemies under the shelter of Thy protection, and encompass him with the glances of the eyes of Thy care. Verily, Thou art the Great Protector.  AB00293

I beseech Thee, O King of Kings and Sovereign of the Kingdom, to assist the ministers of the earth to execute that which Thou hast sent down from the Supreme Pen in Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets. O Lord! They are the Daysprings of Thy power and the Dawning-Places of Thy might.   BH03054

Pray and supplicate at the Threshold of God that day by day royal justice and worldwide dominion may increase. I swear by the Most Great Name that the confirmations of the Kingdom will arrive and the assistance and favors of the Sovereign of the Kingdom of Might will continuously be obtained.  AB04250

Aid Thou the rulers of the world and its learned ones to accept that which Thou commandest them by Thy bounty and Thy loving kindness, and teach them that which Thou didst desire for them by Thy grace, and uncover before them Thy clear and straight path, and Thy manifest and transcendent Cause  BH09810

O Lord! Illumine this association and make this gathering a lamp of the world, for their intention is the universal good and their purpose is service to the world of humanity. O Thou Kind Lord! Such an association is worthy of Thy favors and such a gathering deserves infinite grace and bounty.  AB10593

O Lord! Make the just sovereign the dawning-place of eternal confirmations, and assist the perfect minister in service to the throne of the Most Great Sovereignty. Make them both manifestations of Thine infinite favors and make them successful in that which is the cause of Iran's eternal glory.  AB01572

O my God, my God! I beseech Thee by the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty and by the hidden and treasured mysteries in the hearts of Thy chosen ones to assist His Majesty the Sultan in that which will gladden eyes and tranquilize souls. Thou art verily the Omnipotent, the Dominant over what was and what will be.  BH06925

In reality, what you are doing involves good-will towards the King of the Age (and his government?), for a large number (of people) will arise to pray for the continuation of his rule; in all the provinces of Iran, there shall endure until the resurrection continued well-wishing for the King of the Age and for yourself.  BH07156

under the shadow of their just king and perfect sovereign who hath raised the standard of equity in those regions and extended the hands of dominion in those parts - the protector of the loved ones of God, the guardian of the chosen ones of God, the King of Kings of the East whose pavilion of glory hath extended to the West  AB04239

Turn thou unto God and say: O my Sovereign Lord! I am but a vassal of Thine, and Thou art, in truth, the King of kings. I have lifted my suppliant hands unto the heaven of Thy grace and Thy bounties. Send down, then, upon me from the clouds of Thy generosity that which will rid me of all save Thee, and draw me nigh unto Thyself.   BH00662

This servant supplicates at the threshold of Divine Unity that this glorious crown may rest upon the head of the great leader - may God assist him. May his sovereignty be eternal and kingship in his lineage everlasting. May the sun of his rule shine so brightly that it illumines both East and West, making them into gardens and meadows.  AB02714

I beseech Thee...to aid him whom Thou hast exalted among Thy servants and made a ruler and commander over Thy creation to manifest that which Thou hast revealed in Thy Book. O Lord! Assist His Excellency the Governor to execute Thy commandments with justice and fairness, and ordain for him from Thy Most Exalted Pen the good of this world and the next.  BH10577

O God, my God! Graciously aid Thou this renowned ruler through the potency of Thy compelling power which standeth supreme above all things. Grant that he may be as a shelter for the helpless, a refuge for the poor, a haven for the distressed, the desired goal of every seeker, a fountain of crystal water for the thirsty and an inexhaustible treasure to the needy  AB01776

O my God, O my God! I ask Thee by Thy strengthening grace, and by Thy divine and unseen assistance, and by the outpourings of Thy mercy, to aid the exalted Ottoman government and the Caliphate of Muhammad in becoming established in the earth and firmly seated upon the throne, and to safeguard her regions from calamities and preserve her center of authority from afflictions.  AB07851

Then I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Excellent and Most Ancient Name, to assist His Majesty the Sultan and his loved ones to turn towards Thee and to face the lights of Thy countenance. O Lord! Aid him to protect Thy sheep from the wolves of Thy earth. Then write for him that which will draw him nigh unto Thee and give him to drink of the Kawthar of Thy knowledge.  BH01014

Therefore, all the friends must pray from their hearts in behalf of their Imperial Majesties the Padeshah of the Ottomans and the Shah of Persia. As in these days His Imperial Majesty Sultan Abdul Hamid Khan is in a state of illness and indisposition, therefore the believers of God, in meetings and assemblages, in private and public, must invoke from the Threshold of Oneness swift recovery for him.  AB00603

Today, through God's grace, the believers must, at the beginning of their prayers and the end of their devotions, seek divine confirmation and ask for heavenly success for His Imperial Majesty the just monarch and the perfect Prime Minister, that his country may prosper day by day and the crown of his sovereignty may shine ever more brightly, for his glory is the glory of all and his comfort the comfort of all.   AB01710

O Lord! Protect every protector of the choicest among Thy creation, preserve every preserver of the most virtuous among Thy creatures, strengthen the loins of every supporter of the oppressed, fortify the back of every helper of the distressed, expand the breast of every minister under the banner of equity, facilitate the affairs of every prince who unfurls the standard of justice and rolls up the carpet of tyranny  AB05491

My God, My God! Prevent not the Sultan from turning to the ocean of Thy knowledge, and deprive him not from the depths of the sea of Thy oneness which was the bearer of Thy mysteries and the treasury of Thy wisdom and knowledge. O Lord! Aid him to return unto Thy court and to acknowledge his errors before the gate of Thy forgiveness. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Generous. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH01329

O Lord! Aid them to carry out that which Thou hast commanded them in Thy Book, and illumine them with the lights of sincerity and purity. O Lord! Thou seest him clinging to Thee and holding fast to Thy luminous robe. I beseech Thee to exalt him above the kingdoms of the earth, from east to west, and to make him in all circumstances one who speaks, who remembers, and who stands firm in Thy Cause, the mighty, the impregnable. O Lord! Aid him with the hosts of the unseen and the visible, then preserve his dominions from the oppressors of creation.  BH10938

Say: O God! Thou art the Possessor of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them! Thou givest sovereignty to whom Thou willest and takest it away from whom Thou willest! Thou exaltest whom Thou willest and abaseth whom Thou willest! Thou strengthenest whom Thou willest and humblest whom Thou willest! Thou aidest whom Thou willest and forsaketh whom Thou willest! Thou enrichest whom Thou willest and impoverisheth whom Thou willest! In Thy grasp is the kingdom of all things. Thou createst what Thou willest by Thy command. Verily, Thou art the Sovereign, the Possessor, the King!  BB00034

O Lord, aid the throne of the supreme sovereignty with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse, and guard it beneath the shadow of Thy Most Exalted Word with the eye of Thy loving-kindness. Shield it from harmful hands in this earthly life, and assist it with armies from the uttermost horizon. Make the banner of justice wave and the sign of victory manifest therein. O Lord, have mercy upon the weak among Thy creatures, the poor and the orphans, from this disorder; and preserve the state and nation from decline, and protect the kingdom from extinction and the realm from every wrathful oppressor.  AB10684

O my God, the Most Merciful and the All-Powerful over all contingent beings! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Being to protect the Sultan and deliver him from whatsoever affliction and hardship he is in. Then I beseech Thee to deal with him in a manner befitting the ocean of Thy generosity, the heaven of Thy grace, and the sun of Thy favors, by the honor of the Seal of Thy Messengers, the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation, the Recipient of Thine Inspiration, and the Dayspring of Thy lights. O Lord! Ward off from him the hands of evil through the Hand which Thou hast made to be above all the hands of Thy creation.  BH10422

O my God, my God! Cast me not out from the door of Thy bounty, and withhold me not from the ocean of Thy generosity, and sever not the cord of my hope through Thy might and power. O Lord! Thou seest the thirsty one yearning for the stream of Thy mercy, and the essence of nothingness seeking the word of Thy proof, and the river of poverty desiring the sea of Thy wealth. I beseech Thee, O Protector of them that are near, O Deliverer of the sincere ones, O Shelter of the sorrow-laden, to illumine the countenance of the sovereign with the light of Thy justice, and to adorn him with that which will draw him nigh unto the court of Thy bounty and the seat of Thy favors.  BH01085

O God of Bounty and Educator of all existence! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the One Who dominateth both the unseen and the visible, to adorn him who was mentioned with the lights of the Day-Star of Thy justice. Moreover, protect him from the evil of those who secretly desire to seize his kingdom. O my Lord! Illumine his heart with the light of recognition and aid him to turn toward the horizon of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Manifestation of Thy Self. O Lord! Withhold him not from turning toward the direction of Thy gifts, and make him not deprived of the outpourings of Thy days. Verily, Thou art the Almighty, to Whose power all created things have testified. There is none other God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Bountiful.  BH11609

O my God, my God! Aid the kings of the earth to walk in the path of guidance, then of justice and fairness, and keep them from oppression. Support them with Thy favors and enable them to achieve their hopes. Grant them victory over the people of error and strengthen their loins through a power from Thee, O Mighty, O Exalted One. Open before their faces the doors of conquest and expansion from the realm of spirits, and ordain for them success and prosperity. O Lord, O Lord! Grant relief to Thy servants through them throughout all regions, and make Thy subjects well-pleased under their protection. Make them signs of justice and standards of bounty, protected in Thy shelter, preserved by Thy care, successful through Thy aid, confirmed by Thy mercy. Verily, Thou art the Generous, the Merciful, the Bestower, the Mighty, the Exalted.  AB10956
