
Enable us to serve the world of humanity.  AB06736

I beseech Thee to assist me in serving Thy Cause  BH11106

assist me in serving Thee and serving Thy loved ones  BH05256


I beseech Thee to assist me under all conditions to serve Thy Cause  BH07926


I beg God that he may be assisted in Servitude to the Holy Threshold  AB11534

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom of Names, to aid me to serve Thee and to serve Thy loved ones   BH09695

Strengthen, O my God, my limbs and my heart and my tongue for Thy service and Thy love and Thy praise.  BH06567

Aid him in that which he desireth, enable him to serve Thy loved ones and to be the slave of Thy chosen ones  AB11043

Bestow the power of utterance that they may engage in Thy praise and be protected under the shadow of Thy grace.   AB06666

I beg of God that He may make [that place] a center of merciful events and a point whereon the lordly favors may fall  AB11310

I beseech Thee to assist me in serving Thee. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Munificent, the Forgiving, the Gracious.   BH06690

I moreover beseech Thee, O my God, to aid me in serving Thy Cause and in acknowledging that which hath been sent down in Thy Book.  BH08260

O my Lord! Ordain for me in all conditions that which will draw me nigh unto Thee, that I may arise to serve Thee amidst Thy servants.  BH11808

Lord! Make me a sign of Thy love and a standard of Thy mention and a banner waving in the highest horizon and fluttering in the Abha Kingdom   AB04576

I beseech Thee...to aid me in serving Thee and serving Thy loved ones, and to enable me to do that which befitteth Thy Revelation and Thy days   BH09940

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Great Name through which Thou hast subdued the hearts of the nations, to aid me to arise to serve Thy Cause.   BH06033

O my Lord! Ordain for me from the wonders of Thy grace such deeds as will diffuse the fragrance of Thy acceptance and the sweet-scented breeze of Thy good-pleasure.  BH11881

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy Throne and whatsoever was hidden in Thy knowledge, to aid me to arise to serve Thee in the nights and days and in all conditions   BH05940

I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Self, to manifest through me in Thy service that which will cause my remembrance to endure in Thy dominion and Thy heaven of might.   BH10180

I beseech Thee, O Lord of eternity and Creator of nations, by Thy Most Great Name, to make me successful in remembering Thee and praising Thee and serving Thy Cause.   BH07856

These souls have arisen to serve Thee well, and have begun their servitude. Confirm, aid and encourage each by the promise of Thy divine favors and make them of the elect.  AB10771

Enable us to serve Thy friends and confirm us in servitude to Thy loved ones. This is the ultimate desire of heart and soul, this is the ultimate hope of conscience and being.  AB09497

I beseech Thee by the breezes of Thy revelation, the dawning-places of Thy verses, and the sources of Thy commandments and laws, to aid me to serve Thee and to serve Thy loved ones.   BH07802

I beseech Thee by Thy greatness and sovereignty to assist me through the means of the heavens and earth that I may be occupied at all times in Thy service and speaking in Thy remembrance  BH07000

I beseech Thee to make me one of those who aid Thy Cause, who arise to serve Thee, who rest beneath the canopy of Thy mercy, and who are tranquil through the lights of the Sun of Thy Beauty.   BH02147

Make us successful in serving Thy friends and confirmed in servitude to Thy loved ones. This is the ultimate desire of heart and soul, this is the ultimate aspiration of conscience and being.  AB09497

O Thou incomparable Lord! Bless Thou the members of this household and endear these souls in Thy Kingdom and confirm them in the service of Thy Cause! Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty.  AB11418

O my Lord! Strengthen my limbs for the service of Your Cause and illumine my sight with the light of meeting You. Then open before the faces of Your servants the gates of attaining Your presence.  BH06528

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom of Immortality, by the sovereignty of the Names, to assist me to serve Thy Cause amongst Thy servants and to mention Thee and praise Thee throughout Thy lands.   BH03248

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance to assist me in serving Thy Cause in such wise that the doubts of Thine enemies and the signs of the tyrants among Thy creatures shall not hold me back  BH05033

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Subduing Lord of the kingdom of names and attributes, and by the Dawning-Place of Thy signs and the Manifestation of Thy clear tokens, to aid me to serve Thy Cause.  BH10632

O Pure God! Grant confirmation and bestow success, that we may forget both stranger and kin, remain silent from every mention, and be moved to ecstasy by the breezes wafting from Thy sanctified gardens.  AB09712

O Lord! Aid me to serve Thee amongst Thy servants and to praise Thee amidst Thy creation. Then ordain for me that which befitteth the heaven of Thy generosity and bounty, and the clouds of Thy grace and favors.  BH01836

O my Lord! I am he who hath turned toward Thy most exalted horizon and who hath clung to the hem of Thy bounty. O Thou Who art the Lord of all names! I beseech Thee to assist me in serving Thee and aiding Thy Cause   BH08948

I beseech Thee by Thy imprisonment which Thou hast made the seat of Thy throne and wherein Thy call was raised amongst Thy creation, to make me firm, steadfast and unwavering in Thy love and in service to Thy Cause.   BH02641

My God, my God! I am he who hath turned unto Thee...I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy utterance and the sun of Thy proof to aid me to serve Thy Cause and to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amongst Thy servants   BH07737

My God, my God! Praise be unto Thee for having enabled me to serve Thee, wherein I have taken up, in Thy vicinity, a station and place for Thy remembrance, Thy praise, and that which Thou hast commanded me in Thy days.   BH04337

Assist us to serve at Thy Sacred Threshold, enable us to worship Thee at the Dawning-places of Thy remembrance, and ordain for us to spread the sweet fragrances of Thy holiness among Thy creation. Strengthen our loins in service to Thee amongst Thy servants   AB07006

Do thou, on my behalf, lay thy head on the sacred Threshold, and perfume brow and hair in the dust of that Door, and ask that I may be confirmed in my work; that I may, in return for His endless bounties, win, if He will, a drop out of the ocean of servitude.  AB10256

O my Lord! Thou knowest me and art aware that I entertain no desire but this, seek refuge in naught else but this...If Thou shouldst confirm me in the service of Thy friends this verily would be the most meritorious of gifts and the cause of ever abiding mercy.   AB05651

I beseech Thee by Thy most excellent Names and most exalted Attributes to make me a servant of Thy Cause and one who acteth according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book, and one who maketh mention of Thy Name until my days end with attaining Thy presence and meeting Thee.   BH07357

I beseech Thee, O Ocean of Light, by the lights of Thy countenance, the manifestations of Thy grandeur and might, and the revelations of Thy power and sovereignty, to ordain for me the reward of attaining Thy presence. Then make me a champion of Thy Cause and steadfast in Thy service.  BH05130

O Lord! I implore Thee by the breathings of Thy revelation and the manifestations of Thy grandeur, and by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the world, to aid me to serve Thy Cause in such wise that the clamor of Thy creatures and the might of those who have denied Thy signs may not deter me.   BH05968

Say: Glory be to Thee, O my God! I am he who has turned to Thee and placed his trust in Thee. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the ocean of Thy utterance surged and the breezes of Thy knowledge were stirred, to make me successful in serving Thy Cause and assisted in Thy remembrance and praise.  BH02898

My God, my God! Thou seest me turning toward Thee, gazing upon Thy horizon, and awaiting the wonders of Thy bounty. I beseech Thee by Thy prevailing Will and Thine all-encompassing Purpose to aid me under all conditions to serve Thy Cause and to achieve that whereby my remembrance may endure in Thy Book.  BH08567

O Lord, O Lord! Ordain for him every good that Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones, strengthen his loins for Thy service, make his affairs easy through Thy bounty and mercy, and make him a sign of Thy unity amongst Thy creation, speaking Thy praise, bowing before Thy threshold, relying upon Thee, and clinging to the hem of Thy grandeur.  AB09652

Say: O Lord of the world and Creator of the nations! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me, in all conditions, a servant of Thy Cause, a helper of Thy Faith, one who remembereth Thy Name, one who uttereth that which Thou hast sent down through Thy sovereignty, and one who acteth according to that which hath been inscribed in Thy Book.   BH03231

My God, my God! Thou seest me advancing toward Thee and turning away from all else beside Thee. I beseech Thee by the steadfastness whereby the feet of most of Thy creatures have slipped, and by the light of Thy Cause which hath shone forth from the horizon of Thy will, to ordain for me through the Pen of Thy bounty that which shall profit me in the world to come and in this life.  BH00043

Say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having made me to know Thee and guided me and caused me to hear. I beseech Thee by Thy Tablet and Thine ink, and by the love of Thy chosen ones, and by the enkindlement of the hearts of Thy sincere ones, and by the patience of the Dawning-Places of Thy dignity, to make me in all circumstances steadfast in Thy service and circling round Thy will.   BH03301

O my Beloved and my Purpose! This is Thy servant who is detached unto Thee, who supplicates before Thee, who relies upon Thee. Assist him in all things, in places, times and conditions, for verily he is sincere servant and Thy slave who has sacrificed his spirit, his essence, his self and his comfort in Thy path. He has no wish save Thy good-pleasure, no desire except to exalt Thy Word throughout all regions.  AB10601

Say: Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having turned toward Thy servant and mentioned him in Thy prison in days when the daysprings of polytheism and discord and the sources of infidelity and dissension have appeared. O Lord! Thou seest me clinging unto Thee and detached from all else besides Thee. I beseech Thee to assist me to serve Thy Cause and to arise to aid it through the hosts of wisdom and utterance.   BH02685

O Lord! Assist me to serve Thy loved ones, to gladden the hearts of Thy chosen ones, to comfort the hearts of Thy pure ones, and to bring peace to the souls of Thy devoted ones, that I may arise with my spirit, my body and my heart to that which Thou lovest and art pleased with in servitude to Thy noble and distinguished servants. Verily, Thou art the Helper of whomsoever Thou willest to whatsoever Thou willest, and verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.  AB10856

O God of all existence! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Subduing Lord of Names, to make me steadfast in Thy religion, firm in Thy love, and speaking in Thy beauteous praise. I testify that through Thee the ocean of knowledge hath surged and the fragrance of the garment hath wafted among all religions, and that Thou art He through Whose Name the heaven of utterance hath been raised up and through Whose remembrance the books of the All-Merciful have been honored.  BH00230

O Lord! Make them Thy manifest signs in Thy lands, Thy waving banners over the heads of Thy servants, Thine effective arrows in the breasts of Thine enemies, Thy drawn and gleaming swords in the battlefields of disputation with Thy foes. Loose their tongues in Thy remembrance and praise, cause them to speak with Thy proof and evidence, make them proofs of the Day of Thy Manifestation and missives of Thy Kingdom, and grant them a true mention among those who come after.  AB00683

O Lord! Establish for them the luminous proof, guide them to the manifest way, sanctify them from self and desire, pour upon them patience in the face of tribulation, cause them to speak Thy praise, perfect Thy favors upon them, and make firm their feet upon the straight path, O Merciful, O Compassionate! Make them cupbearers of the celestial wine, that they may pass round the chalice from the vessels of Thy knowledge, O Lord of the most excellent names, until the seekers become intoxicated from these cups overflowing with Thy bounty, O Ever-Living, O Self-Subsisting!  AB01525

O my God, my God! These souls have arisen with all their strength to exalt Thy Word among the people, until the sweet fragrances of faithfulness waft through that luminous region, hearts are stirred by abundant grace, the fire of love burns within breasts and vitals, and eyes and hearts are illumined by the radiant lights shining from the horizon of manifestation. O Lord! Strengthen their arms in this praiseworthy cause, illuminate their consciences with brilliant rays from the horizon of Thy presence, and intoxicate them with the cups of joy whose essence is camphor.  AB09312

O my God and my Beloved! I draw near unto Thee through the sweet-scented breezes of Thy holiness which have perfumed all regions, and I beseech Thee by those sacred and attracted realities which have been stamped with the signs of Thy bounty from every direction, that Thou wouldst assist this servant of Thine to exalt Thy Word, to shed abroad Thy lights, to cause Thy seed to grow, to promulgate Thy Cause, to unite Thy loved ones, to gather together Thy chosen ones, to kindle the fire of Thy love in the hearts of Thy faithful ones, and to intoxicate Thy loved ones with the wine of the Covenant.  AB03904

O my God! O my God! This is Thy servant who has forsaken the pleasure of comfort, the rest of repose, might, glory and greatness, and has traveled to distant lands in Thy path, traversing valleys, crossing mountains and deserts, wandering through the regions, calling out Thy Name among the righteous, summoning souls to the Kingdom of mysteries, and enduring every hardship and tribulation in Thy path from the wicked ones. O Lord! Assist him with the hosts of the unseen and enable him to achieve the greatest hopes, so that signs may indicate mysteries, appearances reveal inner meanings, and the manifest disclose the hidden.  AB00302
O my God, my God! Verily, this servant of Thine is broken before the Kingdom of Thy mercy and supplicates Thee to assist him in serving Thy Cause, spreading Thy remembrance, and diffusing Thy praise and attributes. Aid him in this, for verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, verily Thou art the Kind, the Compassionate, the Merciful.  AB12840
 
