Aid him to serve his father in such wise as not to depart from his good-pleasure   BH07127

"We have remembered his father and mother with a mention from which wafts the fragrance of gifts and favors."   BH02889

immerse his mother, the handmaiden of God, in the ocean of forgiveness, and place upon her head a radiant crown  AB10713

to enable thy father and mother in whatever conduces to salvation and life until the eternity of the eternities  AB08986

Then forgive me and my parents through Thy grace and bounty. Verily, Thou art the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  BH01543

And I beseech God that He may also awaken him, that he may know that this aware son is a manifestation of the favors of the Lord   AB06622

Therefore, this servant beseeches at the threshold of the Lord that your father and mother may be immersed in the ocean of forgiveness.  AB09318

I beseech God to shower every good upon you and your family and children, and that God's protecting gaze may surround them from all directions.  AB09621

Such a mother deserves such a son, and such a son requires such a mother. Blessed is the breast that suckled him, and happy the bosom that nurtured him.  AB08819

And for your noble father and near mother I likewise beseeched infinite favors from the Divine Threshold, that they may be submerged in the sea of grace and beneficence.  AB06297

O God! O my hope! I supplicate toward the Kingdom of Thy Holiness and Thy Sanctity and entreat toward the realm of Thy Might to bless and accept the father of this Thy servant  AB10303

O my Lord and my Hope! Immerse the parents of this servant in the oceans of Thy forgiveness, perfume their nostrils with the fragrances of Thy pardon, and cause them to dwell near Thy mercy.   AB03362

I beseech and implore Thy forgiveness. I ask Thee, by the sanctity of Thy verses and Thy signs, to forgive me and my father and my mother. Verily, Thou art the Most Merciful of those who show mercy.  BH11652

O Lord! Immerse the father and mother of this servant of Thy threshold in the ocean of forgiveness, and purify them from sin and error. Grant them abundant pardon and bestow forgiveness and remission.  AB07942

O God! Cause them to grow with a goodly growth through Thy grace and bounty, and brighten the eyes of their parents through beholding the faces of their descendants. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Bountiful.  AB11880

We make mention of thy father and beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to draw him nigh unto Him and to send down upon him, at all times, mercy from His presence, grace from His own Self, and a sign from His direction.   BH04598

O God: she educated me from the beginning of my life, reared me. But I did not recompense her for her labor; do thou reward her. Grant her eternal life and make her dear in Thy Kingdom. Verily Thou art the Forgiver, the Pardoner and the Kind.  AB06891

Among other things, he sought assistance and favor for thee, and for his deceased mother he sought pardon and forgiveness. A son should be such a servant to his father, and a cause of felicity for his parents at the Most Great and Glorious Threshold.  AB07664

"O Lord! Answer his prayer, fulfill his hopes, show honor to his mother and father, and ordain for them that which he loveth and is pleased with. Keep them safe beneath the glance of Thine eye of loving-kindness, protected by Thy care and guardianship."  AB08420

O Lord! Have mercy upon the mother of this servant who has believed in Thee and Thy signs. Make her the recipient of the glance of Thy loving-kindness and the achiever of that which Thou lovest. Be pleased with her and ordain for her every good in the hereafter.   AB05255

O Forgiver! Grant his father and mother a place in Your shelter and bestow refuge in Your court. Forgive their sins and teach them gratitude for Your favors. Deliver them from remoteness and separation, and grant them a dwelling and abode in the circle of Your chosen ones.  AB02899

We beseech the Sacred Threshold that, by virtue of your faith and certitude, He may also cause your late father to enter His paradise of good-pleasure - and this is not difficult for God to accomplish. How many a son hath become the cause of his father's forgiveness in this Most Great Cycle!  AB07625

Now the father must show the utmost kindness to him and bestow endless favor, and pray day and night and seek divine confirmation so that the son may become like the trees of paradise - a fruitful tree adorned with leaves, blossoms and fruit, appearing in the streams of the Most Glorious Garden with perfect freshness and verdure.  AB06109

He is God! Praised be Thou O Lord, My God! This is My mother who hath acknowledged Thy oneness, confessed Thy unity, attained the honour of meeting Thy Manifestations in Thy days, reached the station of recognition and entered the tabernacle of Heaven, for she loved Thyself and Thy Servant and held fast to the cord of Thy love through the sanctified Temples of Thy Sovereignty.  BH08904

Glory be unto Thee, O God! Send down upon my father in his station that which will bring solace to his heart. Thou art, verily, the Lord of all the worlds. And send down, O my God, upon her who bore me - Thou art, verily, the Lord of all the worlds - that which befitteth the wonders of Thy mercy, for Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful ones and Thou art the Most Generous of the generous ones.  BB00004

Among the special favors of the Greatest Name - may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones - in this mighty Dispensation is that the son may seek forgiveness for the father, and descendants may intercede for their ancestors. Therefore, this servant beseeches at the threshold of the Lord that your father and mother may be immersed in the ocean of forgiveness.  AB09318
