My God! Make me firm in Thy Covenant   AB06432

O Lord! Make firm his steps in Thy Cause  AB09138

O Lord! Make him steadfast in Thy Covenant  AB10809

make thee firm and steadfast in the Testament  AB10197

Make firm his feet in Thy Covenant and Testament.  AB04954

O Lord! Make firm his steps in Thy Ancient Covenant  AB09774

Make us firm and steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament   AB08091

O Lord! Make us steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament.   AB02086

O Lord! Make his feet firm upon Thy Covenant and Testament  AB12654

keep them firm and steadfast in Thy mighty Covenant and Testament   AB05910

O Lord! Strengthen him to remain firm in Thy Covenant and Testament  AB12727

to assist Thy loved ones to stand firm in Thy Cause and in Thy love   BH08258

O Lord! Through him make hearts steadfast and affairs well-established  AB04155

O Lord! Strengthen them in steadfastness in Thy Cause, firmness in Thy Covenant   AB03847

I beseech Thee...to make firm the feet of this servant upon the path of Thy love   BH10618

I beseech Thee... to aid Thy male and female servants to stand firm in Thy Cause   BH09979

My Lord! Aid Thy servants to be steadfast in Thy Mighty Cause and on Thy Straight Path.  AB12402

O Lord! Make firm the hearts of Thy sanctified handmaidens in Thy Covenant and Testament  AB06979

O Generous One! Grant steadfastness and devotion, and bestow firmness and establishment.   AB04462

We beseech divine grace that He may grant them new strength of assurance at every moment   AB03114

O Lord! Aid this servant to remain firm and steadfast in that which is hotter than burning coals  AB02112

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause, firm in Thy religion, and immovable in Thy love   BH08295

O my Lord! Establish for me a seat of truth with Thee, then make me firm in this mighty Cause.   BH07966

O thou wondrous branch of the Blessed Tree! Place thy trust in thy Lord, cling to the hem of grandeur  AB10692

O my Lord! Make it blessed, auspicious and felicitous for Thy loved ones who are firm in Thy Covenant  AB07760

I beseech God to shelter thee and all the friends beneath the protection of His Covenant and Testament.  AB08149

My God, my God! Aid me to remain firm in Thy love and Thy good-pleasure with the greatest steadfastness   BH07566

I beseech Thee by Thy chosen ones and Thy trusted ones to ordain for me what Thou hath ordained for them   BH07062

I beseech Thee and implore Thee to make firm the footsteps on the most upright path and the greatest course   AB07165

O Lord! Make firm my steps and strengthen my back in service to Thy Cause, and make me one of Thy steadfast servants.  AB04628

O God, make us among those who acknowledge Your unity - there is no God but Him - and who are humble before Your signs   BB00464

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause. Verily Thou art the Almighty over what Thou willest   BH02913

O Lord! Praise be unto Thee for having given them feet firmly fixed upon the Covenant, for having fulfilled for them Thy promise  AB12362

When we are firm and steadfast in Thy Covenant and Faith, we shun all else but Thee. O Lord! Have mercy and grant steadfastness.  AB09272

Now, O Lord, grant me steadfastness, bestow upon me firmness, that I may remain firm in love for the Dawning-Place of Thy Oneness  AB04737

O my Lord! Strengthen my limbs to arise in Thy service and to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy perspicuous Book.   BH08529

and beseeched steadfastness and constancy for the friends, and entreated and yearned for firmness in the Cause of the Manifest Light  AB05374

protect them in the cave of Thy Covenant and Testament from the doubts of the Covenant-breakers and the whispers of the wavering ones  AB04239

Make firm their feet upon the Covenant and strengthen their hearts through a light shining forth from the Dawning Place of effulgence   AB01540

praise be to God, Faran was protected and preserved from severe tests and ever increased in firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant   AB11695

make them a single tongue speaking Thy praise and attributes among the concourse of creation, steadfast in Thy covenants among the people  AB04233

"assist me to be steadfast in such wise that the clamor of the peoples who have denied Thy proof and Thy testimony...shall not hinder me"   BH05802

I beseech Thee by Thy Manifestation, Thy rising up, and Thy call, to make me one of them who have stood firm in this Cause, mighty and great  BH07623

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to assist them through the means of the heavens and the earth, to strengthen them in the Most Great Steadfastness   BH06375

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me unto Thy path... I beseech Thee... to make me steadfast in Thy Faith and firm in Thy Cause.   BH07934

O Lord! Make firm the feet upon Thy straight path, and guide all to the right way, and assist and enable all to remain firm in Thy mighty Covenant.   AB05936

O my Lord! Make this servant of Thine a promoter of Thy Covenant, a proclaimer of Thy Word, a spreader of Thy Cause, one who maketh firm the footsteps  AB12408

O God! Make us firm in Thy true religion and Thy straight path, and establish us in the Covenant and Testament, and make us among the people of unity.  AB04368

that Thou mayest assist Thy servant, the Chief, to exalt Thy Word in every distant region and in all deep valleys, that he may serve the firm Covenant   AB05452

O Lord! I beseech Thee by the stars of the heaven of Thy utterance and the suns of Thy favors to aid me to remain firm in the Most Great Steadfastness.   BH05742

O Lord, O Lord, make us firm in Thy Cause, humble before Thy majesty, acknowledging Thy dominion, arising in Thy service and being engaged in Thy adoration.   ABU2194

I beseech Thee by the Point through which the Books and Scriptures were differentiated, to make me detached from all else save Thee and to hold fast unto Thy cord   BH05161

I beseech Thee, O God of existence and Lord of the seen and unseen, by Thy Name to aid me to be steadfast in this Cause whereby the feet of the mystics have slipped.   BH05506

hoping that Thou would protect him from the arrows of doubts and make his feet firm upon Thy straight path and Thy right way through clear signs and evident glad-tidings   AB03315

O Lord! Make firm their steps in Thy Cause, make weighty their measure in this Day of Thy Manifestation, and make them among the signs of Thy Book in the world of creation.  AB11126

Make this assured handmaiden of Yours, along with her children and descendants, firm and steadfast in Your Covenant and Testament. Make her strong and unwavering in Your Pact.   AB05108

Assist me with the hosts of the Supreme Concourse and make me firm and steadfast in the Covenant and Testament. ABU2688

This is Thy servant and the son of Thy servant... make him steadfast in Thy Covenant, whose mighty pillars shake the highest heavens due to the greatness and difficulty of bearing it  AB09140

O Lord! Aid them to serve at Thy sacred Tree, protected from the imaginings of the falsifiers, and make them firm in Thy manifest religion and steadfast in Thy Cause amidst the worlds   AB05503

I beseech Thee by the Kawthar of Thy utterance and the waves of the ocean of Thy bounty to assist me in all conditions to celebrate Thy praise and glorification and to serve Thy Cause.   BH08569

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance and by Thy Name which none save Thy knowledge hath comprehended, to number me among such as have fulfilled Thy Covenant and Thy Testament  BH06629

O my God! Send Thy blessings upon Thy loved ones who have not broken Thy Covenant and Testament, and whom the Manifestations of Thy power and the Daysprings of Thy might have not prevented.  BH06025

Make them firm upon Thy straight path, and cause them to walk in Thy upright way. Preserve them from wavering in Thy mighty Covenant and from vacillation in Thy firm and unshakeable Testament.  AB10718

O Lord! Make me a herald of the Covenant, and a piercing flame against the people of discord, and an arrow penetrating the breast of the hypocrites, and a light shining throughout all regions.  AB08883

This is Thy servant and the son of Thy servant...make him steadfast in Thy Covenant, whose mighty pillars cause the highest heavens to tremble due to its greatness and the difficulty of bearing it  AB09140

I beseech Thee...to rain down from the heaven of Thy bounty upon the branches of this Tree that which will make them steadfast in Thy love and cause them to drink at all times the wine of Thy mercy  BH05192

O thou who art firm in the Ancient Covenant! Stretch forth thy hands in supplication toward the Kingdom of Glory and the Dawning-Place of Beauty, and say: Praise be unto Thee, O my Exalted Lord...   AB07117

O my Lord! Aid me in Thy Cause in such wise that the veils of the world shall not prevent me from turning to Thy face, nor shall the doubts of the nations hinder me from standing firm in Thy Cause.   BH04792

I beseech Thee to make me of those whom the swords of tyranny deterred not from turning toward the Daystar of Thy justice, nor the spears of oppression from drawing nigh unto the court of Thy grace.   BH06033

O Lord! Aid Thy loved ones to remain firm upon Thy path whereon feet have slipped. Make their hearts steadfast in Thy love and make them as immovable mountains in constancy, firmness and tranquility.  AB12173

O my Lord! Assist Thy servant Ali to establish Thy remembrance, to exalt Thy Word, to proclaim Thy Covenant, to spread Thy verses, to manifest Thy proof, and to make clear Thy arguments and evidences   AB04987

O Lord! Make firm their feet in Thy religion and guard their hearts from the doubts of those heedless of Thy remembrance and make them mountains firm in Thy Covenant and pillars fixed in Thy Testament.   AB04510

O my God! I beseech Thee with all humility, supplication, imploring and contrition to protect this servant from severe tests and trials, and make his feet firm upon Thy extended path, O my Merciful Lord.  AB04616

O God! Make us among those who acknowledge Thy unity - there is no God but Him - and who are humble before Thy signs, who worship the All-Merciful and prostrate themselves before Him as Thou hast commanded.  BB00040

O my God! O my God! Make firm the feet of Thy loved ones in Thy Covenant and Testament, and expand their breasts through the lights of steadfastness in Thy Cause. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.   AB02039

I beseech Thee...to assist me to hold fast unto Thy Most Great Handle in such wise that neither the hosts of Thy earth and heaven nor the might of the oppressors among Thy creatures shall keep me back from Thee.  BH07781

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of the Dawn and Sender of the Winds, by Thy Most Great Name through which the peoples are impelled, to strengthen whomsoever hath turned towards Thee upon the Most Great Steadfastness.   BH07471

O Lord! Assist this maidservant of Thine to remain firm in Thy Cause and to serve those who are steadfast in Thy Covenant, through which the feet of the proud have slipped. Verily Thou art the Generous, the Merciful.  AB04094

make firm the feet of their family and children and those who will be born among their descendants and progeny [upon Thy Covenant and Testament, which no covenant or testament has preceded] in the kingdom of creation  AB04242

O my God, my God! Make firm the steps of Thy loved ones in Thy straight path, Thine ancient Covenant and Thy firm and excellent Testament...Make them signs of firmness and standards of steadfastness in the realm of existence  AB02069

I beseech God by Thee to aid me to follow His commandments, to draw me nigh unto Him, and to make me one of those who help His Cause, who visit Thy presence, who seek shelter beneath Thy protection, and who cling to Thy bounty.  BH05307

"O Lord! O Kind Creator! Thy servants are scattered and dispersed in all regions and directions, wandering without direction or purpose, caught in a different trap with every breath, and wandering in a different land each day."   AB03644

I beseech Thee...to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love, in such wise that the clamor of the heedless may not prevent me, nor the vain imaginings of the aggressive ones, nor the oppression of the tyrannical ones.   BH05563

Do Thou assist him, then, with the hosts of earth and heaven, and help, O my God, whosoever helpeth him, choose whosoever chooseth him, and uphold whosoever advanceth towards him. Abandon whosoever denieth him and seeketh him not.  BH09086

and supplicate day and night at the Threshold of Oneness that He may strengthen this weak servant through the power of His servitude. This is the utmost of my hope and the ultimate of my purpose and my greatest entreaty to my Lord.   AB02975

I beseech Thee by this Day wherein the Event hath come to pass, the Abyss hath appeared, all creation hath been shaken, and the edifice of the ungodly hath been made to tremble, to aid Thy loved ones to remain steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH06575

O Lord! Send down upon all the loved ones a tranquility from Thy presence, and make them so firm in the Covenant that their steadfastness may become as missiles hurled against the people of discord. Verily, Thou art the All-Bestowing.  AB08483

I beseech Thee, O Creator of the world and Educator of the nations, to make me steadfast in Thy love and firm in Thy Cause in such wise that the doubts of them that have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs shall not cause me to slip.   BH02304

I beseech Thee...to aid me to arise to mention Thee and serve Thy Cause in such wise that the imaginings of the learned and the doubts of those who have denied Thy right, broken Thy Covenant, and disputed Thy verses shall not hinder me.  BH06295

O my Lord! I have turned my face toward Thee, detached from all else save Thee, clinging to the hem of the robe of Thy grandeur. Make me steadfast in Thy Cause, establish me in Thy remembrance, make me firm in Thy Covenant and Testament  AB10251

O my God, strengthen my feet in Thy Cause, then make me a helper of Thy Beauty, the Ancient and Resplendent One. Then preserve me within the shelter of Thy protection, and grant me that which Thou hast ordained for Thy sincere servants.   BH05919

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, by Thy Most Great Name, to make me one of those who have turned towards Thee and hastened until they took the Kawthar of eternity from the hand of Thy bounty and drank in Thy name amongst Thy servants.  BH05289

Therefore, strengthen their backs through Thy conquering power, illumine their faces with Thy brilliant lights, exalt their station, spread abroad their words, and make them among the lights of the Dawning-Place of steadfastness in Thy love  AB02643

O God! O Thou Who illuminest the faces of those who are steadfast... preserve him from the arrows of doubts, and the spears of allusions, and the swords of interpretation... Make his heart firm in the Covenant like a building of iron plates   AB05998

Lord! Make firm my steps on the path of agreement, preserve me from the croakers, make for me a way out, and grant me and Your loved ones from Your mercy, and protect me in the cave of Your protection, for we have no guardian other than You.  AB01688

I beseech Thee, O Cleaver of Dawn and Subjugator of Winds, by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued all names, to make this leaf of Thine confirmed by Thy confirmations, uttering Thy praise among Thy handmaidens, and steadfast in Thy service.   BH05621

O Lord! Thou seest that I have turned unto Thee and placed my trust in Thee. I beseech Thee to make me one of them that stand firm in the service of Thy Cause and to enable me to perform such deeds as may be adorned with the glory of Thy acceptance.   BH02506

O Lord! Make firm their feet, unfurl their banners, heal their ailments, illumine their faces, expand their breasts, refresh their souls, and quicken their hearts through the holy fragrances of Thy sanctity and the sweet-scented breezes of Thy wisdom  AB12330

to make me a servant unto Thyself, one who speaks in Thy remembrance, stands firm in Thy Cause...that I may remain steadfast in manifesting Thy Cause in such wise that the turning away of Thy servants and the cawing of Thy creatures shall not deter me  BH09375

"O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy signs and Thy clear tokens, and by the mysteries hidden in Thy knowledge, and by the lights of Thy countenance in Thy prison, to assist Thy servants in that which befitteth Thy days, and to grant them such steadfastness"  BH05835

"Then assist him, O my God, with Thy help, and grant him that which is best for him from the Kingdom of the dominion of the heavens and earth, and make him steadfast in Thy love, and establish him upon Thy path, lest his feet slip from Thy straight way."  BH06219

I beseech Thee...to aid Thy servants to observe what Thou hast commanded them in Thy days--commandments through which the sacredness of Thy Cause will be demonstrated unto Thy servants and the affairs of Thy creatures and of Thy realm will be set aright.  BH01969

O Lord! Make his feet firm in Thy Covenant and Testament, perfume his nostrils with Thy fragrances, quicken his spirit with Thy breezes, expand his breast through Thy remembrance, and strengthen his back with the hosts of Thy confirmation and assistance.   AB01835

O my God, my God! These are Your chosen ones and Your pure ones whom You have chosen for Your love, elected for Your knowledge, and selected for Your remembrance...Strengthen them through Your eternal might and aid them with Your everlasting confirmations.  AB02962

O Lord! Purify their realities with the water pouring forth from the clouds of Thy bounties, and illumine their faces with the lights shining from the dawning-places of Thy favors, and confirm them in service to Thy Covenant throughout all contingent beings  AB09775

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to make me steadfast in Thy love in such wise that neither the veils of them that have been heedless of Thy remembrance in Thy days, nor the onslaught of them that have manifested oppression in Thy realm, shall withhold me.  BH04381

And from the Abha Kingdom thou art beseeched to engage in praise of the Incomparable Lord, for thou hast found repose in the shade of the Tree of the Covenant and hast attained the ultimate hope of the people of God, and hast been accepted in His most holy court.  AB08833

I beseech Thee by Thy Pen which Thou hast made as an ensign for the manifestation of Thy Cause and as a herald of Thy Name amongst Thy servants and as a light unto those who have sought Thy supreme horizon and as darkness and vengeance unto every wicked and vile one.  BH05234

I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy giving, and by those who have not broken Thy Covenant and Testament and have drunk the cups of tribulation and adversity in Thy love, to assist Thy loved ones and chosen ones to act as befitteth Thy days.   BH01862

O matchless God! We offer supplication and prayer that Thou mayest make these servants intimate with Thy mysteries and enable them to hear the call of the Concourse on High. Make them steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament, and companions of the mention of Thy Blessed Beauty.  AB08985

I beseech Thee, O my God, my Beloved, and my Heart's Desire, by the Most Exalted Word whereby Thou hast subdued earth and heaven and caused all things to speak, to strengthen me to stand firm in Thy Cause and in Thy love. Verily Thou art the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Wise.  BH05648

O peerless God! We offer our supplication and prayer that Thou wouldst make these servants intimate with Thy mysteries and cause them to hear the call of the Concourse on High. Make them steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament, and companions to the remembrance of Thy Blessed Beauty.  AB08985

Make them, O my God, steadfast in Thy Covenant and Testament, and firm in Thy Cause and the recognition of Thee, that they may arise to serve Thee. Aid them with Thy triumph, and make them the stars of Thy gifts and missiles against every covenant-breaker and violator in Thy dominion.  AB02461

I beseech Thee...to assist me in all conditions to manifest Thy Cause in such wise that the winds of trials shall not prevent me, nor the opposition of the followers of religions, and that I may be speaking Thy Name in Thy land and making mention of Thy remembrance among Thy creatures.   BH05346

O my God, my Refuge, my Shelter and my Salvation! I beseech the Kingdom of Thy mystery and the Might of Thy Most Holy Being to make our feet firm in Thy manifest Faith and Thy Straight Path, to calm our hearts, illumine our sight, and expand our breasts through the verses of Thy holiness.   AB01874

O my Lord! Thou seest me among Thy servants who have violated Thy Covenant and Testament. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me from the ocean of Thy generosity and the heaven of Thy bounty. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Generous. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH07011

O Lord! O Lord! Illumine the Eyes with the lights of the sun of Reality! Suffer the ears to hear the Voice of the Kingdom of Abha under all circumstances. Make us firm in Thy Cause, submissive before the Throne of Thy Majesty Acknowledging Thy Dominion, arising in Thy Service, engaged in Thy adoration.   ABU2184

My God, my God! By how You have gathered these birds in the garden of Your sanctification and the meadows of Your oneness, make their feet firm upon Your path and make them steadfast in Your ancient Covenant and Testament, O Lord of the Worlds, that they may not be shaken by the winds of tests and trials.   AB01166

Then I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Name, the Self-Subsisting, and by Thy sealed choice Wine, and by Thy manifest Light, and by Thy Call from the Mount whereby the graves were raised up and the darkness was illumined, to aid me in all conditions to make mention of Thee and to praise Thee amidst Thy creation  BH05728

I beseech God to increase thy faith and certitude, to strengthen thy steadfastness and firmness, to immerse thee in the seas of His mercy, to guide thee to the kingdom of His grace and bounty, to make thee a sign of His love and a word of the Manifestation of His Will, and to illumine thy face among the believers.  AB07112

I beg of Thee, O my God, by those who have fasted for love of Thee and have quaffed the living waters of submission from the hands of Thy bounty, to ordain for Thy loved ones, who under the blaze of the orb of Thy trials have clung to the cord of patience, all the good Thou hast reckoned in Thy Books and Thy Tablets.  BH09621

O my Merciful One, O my Beneficent One, O Life of my spirit and soul! Make Your faithful servant Samandar, the fire of love, enduring in the Paran of spirit and fragrances and the Sinai of the Kingdom of knowledge and the fire of the manifestation of the warmth of Your love, and make him the manifestation of endless favors   AB02990

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by the fragrances of the hearts of them that know Thee and by the burning of the livers of the sincere ones in their separation and remoteness from Thee, to assist Thy Afnan in that which Thou lovest and approvest. Then raise them at all times through Thy grace, Thy power and Thy loving-kindness.   BH01909

I beseech Thee by Thy greatest signs and by the Daysprings of Thy Cause and the Manifestations of Thy Self and the Recipients of Thy knowledge and the Mines of Thy wisdom and the Treasuries of Thy utterance and the Sources of Thy commandments and ordinances to aid me in all conditions to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Book.   BH01753

Say: My God, my God! Adorn my heart with the ornament of Thy love, my tongue with Thy remembrance and praise, mine eye with beholding Thy horizon, and my face with turning toward the lights of Thy countenance. O Lord! I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy knowledge and the sun of Thy grace to aid me in all conditions to be steadfast in Thy Cause.   BH08488

O Lord! Illumine his sight with beholding the lights of the Covenant, gladden his heart with the musk-laden breezes wafting from the gardens of the Testament of the Light of the horizons, make fragrant the garden of his heart with the outpourings of the clouds of harmony, and protect him from the evil of discord and the thunderbolt of hypocrisy  AB09053

O Thou Who dost strengthen the sincere ones with hosts from the Most Glorious Kingdom and Who dost confirm those firm in Thy Covenant with legions of angels from the Supreme Concourse!...O Thou Confirmer of those among Thy servants who are firm in Thy Covenant and Testament, which is the most firm handle extended from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB05013

O my Lord! Illumine his sight with the vision of the lights of the Covenant, gladden his heart with the musk-laden breezes wafting from the gardens of the Testament of the Light of the Horizons, make fragrant the garden of his heart with the outpourings of the clouds of harmony, and protect him from the evil of discord and the thunderbolt of hypocrisy.  AB09053

O Lord, Lord! These are a band who supplicate to the Kingdom of Thy mercy, and a group who are humble, submissive and devoted before the presence of Thy oneness. Lord! Illumine their faces with the lights of Thy favors, expand their breasts with the verses of Thy unity, and purify their hearts with the water that descendeth from the heaven of Thy lordship.   AB03803

O Lord! Assist these brothers to serve the Covenant and to be illumined by the lights of the effulgences of the Kingdom throughout all regions, to drink from the cup of Thy favors which overflows with the wine of knowledge amongst the people of concord. Aid them through Thy Word, grant them Thy bounty, shower upon them Thy mercy and assist them in all things.  AB08764

O Lord! Aid these brothers to serve the Covenant and to be illumined by the lights of the emanations of the Kingdom throughout all regions, to drink from the cup of Thy favors which overflows with the wine of recognition among the people of constancy. Assist them through Thy Word, bestow upon them Thy bounty, shower upon them Thy mercy, and help them in all things.  AB08764

Grant, O Thou Loving Lord, that all may stand firm and steadfast, shining with everlasting splendour, so that, at every breath, gentle breezes may blow from the bowers of Thy loving-kindness, that from the ocean of Thy grace a mist may rise, that the kindly showers of Thy love may bestow freshness, and the zephyr waft its perfume from the rose garden of divine unity.   AB00204

I beseech Thee, O Originator of existence, by the ocean of Thy bounty and the heaven of Thy knowledge, to cause Thy chosen ones to hold fast to the cord of Thy bestowal, to hasten unto the ocean of Thy utterance, to speak forth the wonders of Thy remembrance and praise, to remain firm in Thy service, and to act according to what Thou hast revealed in Thy Gracious Book.   BH04370

O my God! O my God! These are the company of truth and the band of those firm in the Covenant, the guardians of the Testament in all regions, who supplicate to Thee at eventide and at dawn, who flee from the croaking ones to aid the Covenant, whose faces shall be radiant on the Day of Meeting. Lord! Make them of goodly character, bearers of Thy Word among the people of concord.  AB12237

My God, my Lord and my Master! I implore Thee and beseech Thee to confirm every steadfast one, to assist every firm one, and to aid those who have turned toward Thy most glorious Kingdom to achieve Thy good-pleasure, to promote Thy Word, to strengthen Thy sovereignty, to establish Thy knowledge, to reinforce the pillars of Thy love and to make firm the foundation of Thy commandments.  AB01142

O Lord! Aid me to be faithful and steadfast in Thy Cause amidst all humanity, and enable me to drink the cup of tribulation and fall into the depths of hardship and adversity, and to drink from the chalices of affliction and be refreshed by the breezes of fidelity in Thy path, O Thou in Whose hand is the kingdom of earth and heaven. Verily Thou art the All-Bountiful, the Most Exalted.  AB00738

I beseech Thee, O God of Names and Creator of heaven, to assist Thy loved ones who have cast behind their backs the manifestations of idle fancies and vain imaginings, and have taken hold of that which Thou didst command them in Thy mighty Book. O Lord! Ordain for them every good thing which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, then adorn them with the ornament of steadfastness in Thy Cause.   BH10403

O Lord! Strengthen Thy servants who are firm in Thy mighty Covenant and manifest Testament through the hosts of Thy Supreme Concourse and a company of Thy near angels. O Lord! As Thou hast illumined their faces in Thy most glorious Kingdom, spread the light of their faces throughout the east and west of the earth and raise their edifice in the nether Paradise. Verily, Thou art the All-Bountiful.  AB02917

O my God and the Helper of the sincere ones and those who are firm in Thy Covenant and are assured by Thy promise! Aid these, Thy servants, to serve at the threshold of Thy holiness, and make them signs of guidance and stars of piety, shining from the supreme horizon and gleaming from the highest zenith. Make firm their feet that they slip not through the doubts of the people of passion and desire.   AB00450

O Lord! Behold Thou Thy lovers in Thy lands, who have trembled at the onslaught of Thine enemies. I beseech Thee, by the light of Thy Countenance and the fire of Thy love, so to attract them by Thine utterance that they may not be affected by Thine enemies, and by the estrangement of the learned amongst Thy creatures who pretend to knowledge without any clear proof from Thee, or testimony on Thy part.   BH05559

O my God, my God! Aid Thy sincere loved ones to follow the manifest light, and assist Thy near servants to spread Thy fragrances throughout the worlds, that they may, through the promotion of Thy radiant Faith and the dissemination of Thy teachings and the spreading of Thy signs and the proclamation of Thy evidences between the east and west, become distracted from the doubts of the Covenant-breakers.   AB00078

O my God, O Thou Who art the Lord of all existence and the Ruler of the kingdoms! I beseech Thee by the movement of Thy Most Exalted Pen, whereby all things were attracted, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the kingdom of names, to make me speak forth Thy remembrance and stand firm in Thy love in such wise that neither the doubts of the doubtful nor the signs of the heedless shall hold me back.   BH02156

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence and Source of bounty, by Thy Name, the Loving, to assist Thy servants to draw nigh unto Thee and to hold fast unto the cord of Thy providence and to cling to the hem of Thy mercy with such steadfastness that neither the doubts of the perverters of truth nor the whispers of the clamorers may keep them back from drawing near unto the ocean of Thy grace and the heaven of Thy bestowals.   BH06588

My God, my God! The fire of Thy love hath enkindled me, and the fire of separation from Thee hath consumed me. I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which the decree of resurrection was manifested and those in the graves arose, and by Him through Whom the breezes of Thy Revelation and the fragrances of Thy Cause were wafted, through which the Ascension was adorned, and by Thy loved ones, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause.  BH09655

My God, my God! With utmost submissiveness and contrition, with complete meekness and lowliness, with supplication and devotion, I turn to Thee in prayer and beseech Thee to continue bestowing upon me the glances of Thy merciful eyes, to strengthen me in firmness and steadfastness in Thy word of oneness, to enable me to spread Thy most great verses, to raise the banners of Thy manifest signs throughout all regions, to diffuse the effects of Thy great bounty, and to kindle the fire of Thy love in all hearts and souls.  AB05018

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Aid this servant of Thine to assist Thy Cause among Thy servants and to establish Thy commandments and ordinances. O my God! Thou art He Who reminded me when I was silent in Thy remembrance. I beseech Thee by the breaths of Thy revelation whereby the cities of justice and fairness were perfumed, and by the light shining forth from the horizon of favor and grace, to make me arise to serve Thy Cause in such wise that the Pharaohs of the days and the tyrants of the peoples will not frighten me.   BH02161

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having guided me in Thy days and enabled me to recognize the Dawning-Place of Thy signs and the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens. I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Book and its words and letters, and by Thy Cause whereby the ocean of knowledge surged before the faces of all religions, to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and firm in Thy love. Verily Thou art powerful over whatsoever Thou willest. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH06725

O Lord of the Covenant! O Luminary of the horizons! The oppressed 'Abdu'l-Baha has fallen into the hands of those who appear as sheep but are in reality ravenous wolves. They perpetrate every injustice and destroy the foundation of the Covenant while claiming to be Baha'is. They strike at the root of the Tree of the Covenant yet count themselves as oppressed, like the Babis who broke the Covenant of the Bab and from six directions shot arrows of accusations and calumnies at Thy blessed Temple, yet with such great tyranny considered themselves oppressed.   AB00024

O my Lord! Make them to be lions in the forests of the Covenant, rain-clouds over the meadows of radiance, fish in the pools of harmony, birds in the garden of holiness, hosts of the Kingdom of the Spirit, delegations to Thy most glorious Paradise, stars in the horizon of Thy supreme favor, waves upon the ocean of Thy mercy amidst all peoples, signs of Thy luminous Scripture, and clear proofs of Thy Book in the kingdom of creation, and words of Thy volumes and tablets of Thy bestowal in this world and the next, that they may voice Thy praise among all the diverse peoples.  AB07792

My God, my God! This is Your servant who has turned to the Dawning-Place of Your first Light, the Primal Point, and responded to Your call at the rising of the Sun of Glory in the latter cycle, and has borne every hardship and difficulty and trial, and has become one of Your ancient servants. Illumine his heart forever and eternally with the light of the Morn of Guidance, and expand his breast through witnessing Your greatest signs, and cause him to speak with the proof of Your Covenant which You have taken from the Kingdom of existence, from the unseen and the visible, O Lord of the Supreme Concourse! Preserve him from the arrows of doubts of the people of veils and ambiguities, make his heart firm in the clear verses, and make him a brilliant lamp in the gathering of the Covenant and Testament.  AB01886
