
We beseech God to assist the oppressors to turn back and repent. Verily He is the Forgiver of sins.  BH09688

We beseech God to aid the oppressors to turn unto Him and to repair to the gate of His pardon and bounty.   BH03131

Lord, forgive them their sins and misdeeds, conceal their faults before all, and punish them not for what their hands have wrought.   AB00230

O Lord! Aid those who deny to turn towards the court of Thy glory and to acknowledge what Thou hast sent down from the heaven of Thy utterance.   BH02953

one of the great teachings of Baha'u'llah not found in previous dispensations, which is the prohibition of cursing enemies and to pray for their forgiveness  ABU3484

I beseech Thee by the Stream which hath flowed from Thy Most Exalted Pen in Thy most glorious horizon, to transform the hatred of Thy servants into mercy from Thy presence and loving-kindness from Thy court.   BH08947

It is incumbent upon us to pray, and God confirmeth whomsoever He willeth in whatsoever He willeth. It is incumbent upon us to raise our hands in supplication to the Kingdom of Mystery and seek forgiveness for all.  AB10883

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to aid the calumniators to pure truthfulness, the deniers to firm acknowledgment, and the opposers to manifest acceptance. Verily He is the Most Merciful of the merciful ones and the Fulfiller of the needs of all who ask.   BH06356

O my God, my Aim, my Object of Worship! Protect Thy sheep from the wolves of the earth, and adorn praiseworthy conduct with its finest ornament, that all may find their station and become aware of its fruits. For if Thou grant awareness, treachery will be transformed into trustworthiness, falsehood into truthfulness, and oppression into justice.   BH01016

O my God, my God! Aid Thy servants to return unto Thee, and transform their treachery into trustworthiness, their pride into submission, their falsehood into truth, and their fire into light. O Lord! Deprive them not of the sun of justice nor of the ocean of equity. Thou art the Dawning-Place of bounty and grace. There is no God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Generous.  BH11676

O Lord! Thou seest those who are heedless of Thy remembrance and are veiled from the effulgent rays of the Sun of Thy Revelation, wandering in the wilderness of allusions and bewildered in the desert of veils. I beseech Thee, by Thy pure power, to manifest in the kingdom that which will draw all unto the court of Thy knowledge and bring them near to the city of Thy wisdom and knowledge.  BH00679

O Lord! Strengthen hearts that have strayed from truth and wandered in the wilderness of doubt and plunged into an ocean of mirage and clung to a rope woven by spiders, and feared not the Day of Punishment. O my Lord! They are among Thy weak servants - deliver them through Thy power and might, and make for them a way out from the deep blind pit, and guide them to the path of faithfulness and the way of God-consciousness   AB00782

O Lord! Thou seest Thy servants who turned away from Thee after having turned towards Thee, and were deceived by their wealth until they denied Thy right and rejected Thy favors and cast aside Thy gifts. O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy sovereignty which hath encompassed all things, seen and unseen, to aid them to return unto Thee and to seek forgiveness before the gate of Thy pardon and to turn in repentance before the throne of Thy bounty.   BH02952

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy Will which hath encompassed all created things, and by Thy Mercy which hath preceded all contingent beings, to aid the heedless to turn toward the ocean of Thy knowledge and the heaven of Thy grace. Then enable them to return unto the Dayspring of Thy signs and the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation, and to repent before the door of Thy bounty which Thou hast opened through the key of Thy Most Great Name before the faces of all nations.  BH11690

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy mercy that encompasseth the righteous and the sinful, and embraceth the obedient and the rebellious, and saveth the perishing and the wayward - forgive their sins, conceal their faults, guide them to Thy straight path, and enable them to walk in Thy right way. Remove the veil from their eyes, lift the covering from their insight, unseal their ears, cleanse the rust from their hearts, soften their hardened hearts, expand their constricted breasts, relieve them of their rage, free them from their hatred  AB01493

O Thou Peerless God! The heedless count the familiar as strangers and consider the friend as foe. They imagine the morn of guidance to be the eve of darkness and regard the water of Paradise as scalding fluid. They oppress Thy loved ones, deem the antidote a deadly poison, and consider life-giving honey more bitter than venom. O God! Set them free and make them aware; awaken them and make them conscious. Deliver them from darkness and guide them to the center of light. Lead them out of darkness into light, guide them to the extended path, admit them to the praiseworthy station, and overshadow them with the banner tied by the fingers of Thy power in this Promised Age. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Loving!  AB07349

Say: O my God, my God! Thou seest Thy chosen ones and trustees in the hands of the calumniators and the treacherous ones who are consumed by the fire of greed, passion, tyranny and wickedness, who devour people's wealth without any proof from Thee or evidence from Thy presence, and who desire naught but harm to Thy trusted servants. I beseech Thee, O Lord, by the Most Great Word through which the Sun of Divine Unity hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy Cause, and by which the hearts of Thy servants and creation have been illumined, to aid the heedless ones and calumniators to be trustworthy, pious, truthful and pure. O Lord! Help them to return to the court of Thy glory and the gate of Thy generosity.   BH01221
