"I beseech Thee by the ocean of Thy verses and the lights of Thy Throne to aid me to perform such deeds as will diffuse the fragrance of Thy good-pleasure."   BH04193

"Our Lord! Ordain for us goodly contentment, patience under decree, fortitude in tribulation, and precedence to the field of sacrifice in the court of grandeur."  AB01153

O Lord! Ordain for me this supreme bounty and grant me this mighty gift, that I may attain unto everlasting and eternal life that hath no end. Verily, Thou art the Gracious, the Merciful, the All-Bountiful.  AB09630

O God, give us to drink from the same cup that thou hast ordained for the Most Great Name and make us inebriated with that wine that we might follow the path of that Beloved of all and ascend unto thy Kingdom.   AB04400

O my God! May my life be sacrificed for Thy lovers! Make the blood of this despondent one to be shed in the way of those who are Thy friends and cause this withered body to become dust on the path trodden by Thy loved ones, O Thou Who art my God!  AB11170

"I beseech Thee to adorn this servant with the ornament of faithfulness amidst the concourse of creation, in such wise that Thou mayest make me one of those who have been martyred in Thy path and who have surrendered their spirits in Thy love and good-pleasure."   BH07121

Ordain for me and him sacrifice in the field of self-surrender, steadfastness in loyalty, independence from all else save Thee, orientation toward Thee, reliance upon Thee, and martyrdom in Thy presence. By Thy glory! This is the ultimate hope and supreme aspiration of my heart, O Thou Lord of glory and perfection! Verily, Thou art the All-Glorious, the Most High.  AB12650

O Divine Providence! Lift to Thy lovers' lips a cup brimful of anguish. To the yearners on Thy pathway, make sweetness but a sting, and poison honey-sweet. Set Thou our heads for ornaments on the points of spears. Make Thou our hearts the targets for pitiless arrows and darts. Raise Thou this withered soul to life on the martyr's field, make his faded heart to drink the draught of tyranny, and thus grow fresh and fair once more.  AB00156
