Praise be to God: The United States has in reality made extraordinary progress... It will lead other nations spiritually, for its illumination is far-reaching  ABU0748

Then know that after Me the breezes of discord shall blow  BH06947

Soon it will be observed that the native government of the Blessed Beauty will become the most respected government in all the earth. Verily in this is a lesson for those who observe. And Iran will become the most prosperous region in the world. This truly is a mighty favor.  AB04277

Great martyrs will arise in this Cause in the years to come.   ABU3369

The day and age promised by the divine Prophets has appeared.  ABU3142

The appointed time hath come and the Promised One hath appeared   BH08355

Soon will the effulgences of the divine Word encompass all lands.  BH06029

the stench of treachery shall soon spread throughout all regions   BH03880

This peace will come about after great upheavals and events take place. He asked whether it would occur in this century. They replied: Yes, in this very age and century in which we now find ourselves.  ABU3463

God shall soon raise them up in the earth and make them powerful.   BH02529

in the coming ages the women shall make signal progress.  AB10778

Ere-long shall she tell out her tidings, when the set time is come.  BH11364

Soon the rustling of that tree will set the East and West in motion.  AB11964

Eventually the light of truth will fully illumine both East and West.  AB09376

"At this very moment the Tablet to the Czar of Russia is being read"   ABU3446

from this steadfastness momentous results shall soon be made manifest.  AB07893

Although Paris is dormant now, it will eventually stir into motion...   ABU1073

"By God! That whereof We informed thee therein shall be made manifest."  BH02858

"The banner of the Cause shall be unfurled over the cities of Hungary."  ABU2357

the world will be so trained that no one will harm even his own enemy  ABU3558

Soon shall the prison door be opened, and whosoever willeth shall enter.   BH03348

as was foretold in the Tablet of Vision spread throughout the dusty earth  AB01660

Ere long will its fruits be made manifest in the world of earthly dominion  BH03624

As for Iran, revolution lies ahead, for the Iranians have not yet awakened  AB12418

Until the sun rises in the West, the door of repentance will remain open.   ABU3591

A most wonderful and thrilling motion will appear in the world of existence  AB11113

I said in America that the Balkan War was the prelude to that general war.   ABU3573

Taqizadeh has gone to America. He shall soon find himself in manifest loss.  AB03398

indicating that the Cause of God will reach the utmost degree of aspiration   AB06682

God has purposed that peace must reign in this age, and it will come to pass.  AB09733

that home is blessed and ere long the kings of the world shall be its guardians  AB09895

Soon will the lights of the Abha Kingdom illumine all the horizons of existence   AB12723

Erelong its signs shall be made manifest, and the fast asleep shall be awakened.  AB11287

Soon shall a third join them both. Verily thy Lord is the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH02630

We informed the people of that which later came to pass and will yet come to pass.   BH03448

I have often said that their progress will be rapid and great when the war is over.  ABU3689

Verily, after a time there shall come to you a Command which ye shall come to know.   BH11432

That which We told you before has come to pass, and that which remains shall appear.  BH06619

Soon shall the signs of God's grace appear and divine lights illumine East and West.   AB02748

Soon shall its climate be changed, and there shall enter it those who will develop it   BH06024

Unforeseen tribulation lies ahead. Blessed is he who knows, and woe unto the heedless!   BH02842

For the prophecies of the Ancient Beauty will all certainly be fulfilled and realized.   AB02459

From the word "'Asq" is meant the years of the manifestation of His Holiness the Qa'im   AB01954

Soon shall the station and rank of every steadfast seeker become manifest in the world.   BH10001

This is a day wherein every one who advanceth gaineth, and every doubting denier loseth.  BH09482

The Promise hath been fulfilled and the Promised One hath come with manifest sovereignty  BH08344

That which was foretold in previous Tablets hath manifestly come to pass from concealment  BH02341

Ere long shall ye behold yourselves in a station wherefrom the horizons will be illumined  BH04552

Iran will be ruined and ultimately it will end in the interference of neighboring powers   ABU1542

predicting what would happen in their kingdoms, and these predictions have come to pass!   ABU1415

This is God's decree and it will come to pass notwithstanding all the present conflicts.   ABU1178

By My life, that which was hidden in the hearts of the mystics shall soon be made manifest  BH10693

And soon that luminous morn will dawn and shine in all the cities and villages of Europe.   AB02780

"in like manner will all the races of the earth be drawn together. Of this, rest assured!"  ABU3248

yet the time shall come when it will appear without any veil and illumine the whole world.   BH05413

Soon will God bring about His Cause and make manifest His command and establish His proof.   BH04940

Soon will the Sun of Justice emerge from behind the clouds and its rays encompass the world.  BH05267

his loss will be known when the lights of guidance shine in England with supreme brilliancy.  ABU3017

Soon shall the horizons be illumined through the Name of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Gracious.   BH04943

The Day hath drawn nigh - the Kingdom is God's, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the All-Wise!  BH01847

The days are near and the point subtle and delicate. Utmost care and vigilance are necessary   AB11783

This Jerusalem has heavenly foundations, and this Jerusalem is the city of the Merciful Lord   AB07540

I say in truth: whatsoever hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen shall assuredly come to pass   BH04115

This is what We foretold you before. Verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Encompassing.   BH07184

Soon, it is hoped that by divine grace you will be successful in achieving a mighty undertaking.  AB07072

I say unto thee that the glad-tidings of God have appeared, all prophecies have become renowned   AB04592

We shall, in time, raise up from you both one who shall call out amongst the servants in My Name.   BH05957

"Verily, thou shalt soon witness the effects of these bestowals whose lights have radiated forth."  AB08952

Though Iran is now in ruins, it will eventually become a palace - meaning after many disturbances   AB01307

Erelong the evidences of this regeneration will be revealed, and the fast asleep will be awakened.  AB11291

That which hath been ordained for thee by God, the Lord of the worlds, shall erelong be sent down.   BH11098

The promises of the Prophets have already been fulfilled, the prophecies of the Messengers realized  AB11263

Therefore it is possible for man to arrive at the station wherein future events are revealed to him.  AB05049

In every old gospel, or sacred book, if it be carefully studied, reference to this Day may be found.  ABU3167

By My life! There shall appear from them that which God, the Lord of the mighty Throne, hath purposed  BH07448

This is the Day when "man shall flee from his mother and his father and his sister and his brother."   AB06086

Earthquakes have seized all the tribes of the earth save whom God, the Lord of all men, has willed.   BH04915

All peoples were awaiting the dawning of the Sun of Truth, each according to some title or designation  AB02115

Soon the blast of the trumpet and the call of the bugle will resurrect the horizons from their graves.   AB05821

The meaning of the dream I dreamt is now clear and evident. Please God this dynamite will not explode.   ABU3606

Ere long shall the saplings that have been planted bring forth wondrous and sublime fruits in the world   BH03604

It will certainly come about but America will not participate in it. This war will be staged in Europe.   ABU1171

The days shall pass, and ye shall behold your Lord ascendant over all who are in the heavens and on earth  BH06539

God will soon raise up from among the kings one who will help His Cause, for He is potent over all things.  BH05461

Verily your Lord has built for you a mighty Babylon and a great Jerusalem wherein you shall dwell forever.  AB11868

"Soon will they vanish through the sovereignty of thy Lord. He, verily, is the Almighty, the All-Powerful."  BH05316

Today the power of the Hour has encompassed all, and trembling has seized all tribes save whom God willeth.  BH04672

Soon shalt thou witness its effects, and its lights shall shine forth, and its fragrances shall be diffused  AB11005

This dust shall not endure - surely this dense cloud will disperse and the luminous morn shall bring light.  AB11749

By God, He hath ordained for thee and for him that which no one knoweth. It shall soon be revealed in truth   BH03919

About 50 years longer. Now no one is religious save the (real) Baha'is...Bol... will infect America as well.  ABU1004

Soon shalt thou see the people laid low, and dominion shall be God's, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  BH07017

Then, and only then, will the Divine Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.  BH04607

The One who is to come is he who was promised in the books of God and his epistles; that is, the Manifestation  AB11574

"Ere long God will manifest, in truth, a matter from His presence" and "Soon shall they know what they missed"   BH05515

The day is approaching when the victory of thy Lord, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful, will be proclaimed.  BH01924

Soon the radiance of the divine Sun of the world will fall upon you and illuminate your face in the realm above.  AB07470

Despite thy destitution, God willing, it shall be transformed into gladness, and dispersion shall lead to unity.  AB10843

Soon thou shalt behold the Sun of My Cause from the Most Exalted Horizon. Thus doth the All-Knowing inform thee.   BH11169

We had informed them of it beforehand so that they might not be agitated but rather be among the steadfast ones.   BH05097

Soon shall appear in the world the signs and fruits of whatsoever ye have witnessed and heard in the path of God.   BH06015

During these days, the promises of the bygone Prophets are being fulfilled and Isaiah's prophecy stands manifest.   ABU2319

"The Youth shall soon emerge, and the denizens of the highest paradise and the angels drawn nigh shall welcome Him"  BH10343

Soon shall the monotheists behold the banners of victory, and the polytheists be in severe distress and agitation.   BH07859

Soon shall the generality of mankind lament and bewail that which hath escaped them in this supreme Manifestation.   BH02856

and you shall soon hear, due to his connection with the Blessed Threshold, a resonant voice throughout all regions.  AB05706

The time will come when its light will appear, when its evidences will be made manifest, and its secrets unraveled.  AB11327

But the upheaval of the factions will not endure, and the agitation will pass away, though only after many hardships  AB10917

Ere long Iran shall become the envy of the world and the Iranians shall become the object of the world's admiration.  AB08336

Soon shall the banners of victory be upraised, and sovereignty shall remain with God, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.   BH11423

Now the value and greatness of this station is hidden and invisible but ere long it will become evident and manifest.  AB10768

When that land is revived through the breezes of the Self-Subsistent Lord, it will become the most glorious paradise.  AB02935

They should not be deceived before the completion of a thousand years, as hath been expressly revealed in the Tablets   BH01919

Soon shall the hidden divine favors be made manifest in the earth and become evident unto all the peoples of the world.  BH11155

The Beloved of divine confirmation shall remove the veil, and the truth shall cause the market of unreality to decline.  AB09970

What art thou reading? A lecture on the coming world teacher, by Mrs. Besant. The great world teacher has already come.   ABU3629

That which hath been concealed from sight shall soon be made manifest. He, verily, is the True Informer, the Trustworthy.  BH09614

"These numbered days shall pass away, and We shall behold the sincere ones in pavilions of glory with might and majesty."  BH04863

"Then know that in this land a fire lies concealed - We do not wish to mention it. Soon its flames will become manifest."  BH03431

"By the life of God! Soon there shall appear that which will cause the lips of both the seen and unseen realms to smile."  BH02501

Although they squandered Iran's independence, Iran is progressing day by day. In any case, Iran's future is very bright.   ABU3158

"Thinkest thou that He would have commanded thee to pray for that which would never come? That prayer is also a prophecy."  ABU3207

Future events in a city are foretold: "Affairs in that city must needs undergo change, and the promise shall be fulfilled."  BH02562

Soon will this sanctified radiance shine so brightly that East and West will become the dawning-places of the Sun of Truth.  AB05090

Soon you shall see that country become the envy of flower gardens and that territory become a sign of the eternal paradise.  AB05177

Soon the signs of acceptance will become manifest and evident. Heavenly bounty will arrive, divine insight will be attained  AB05873

Today the worth of such souls is unknown, but in the future it shall become evident and manifest like the light of the sun.   AB03333

In brief, the promise that God gave to Abraham's lineage in all the books of the Prophets - that promise He will now fulfill.  AB02495

All have been reminded of the remembrance of five, and afterwards until the year 92 have been reminded and will become aware.   BB00621

Soon will the croaking be heard throughout the lands. We have sent down in the Book aforetime that which shall appear hereafter.   BH09231

All shall perish in less than the twinkling of an eye, and sovereignty and dominion shall remain with God, the Mighty, the Great   BH04300

"Ere long the Word of God will display a wonderful influence and finally that region (America) will become the paradise of ABHA."  AB04003

Soon shalt thou see the banners of the verses raised aloft, the sails of clear proofs unfurled, the stars of guidance shining...   AB03059

Although the importance of this divine Institute is not very evident now, yet in the future it will be clear and plain as the sun.  AB07840

It is not known as yet what a vast measure of celestial grace hath been bestowed upon Stuttgart. Later it shall be made manifest.   ABU2049

Soon shalt thou behold the effects of that which We have bestowed upon thee. Verily, thy Lord is the Rememberer, the All-Informed.   BH10770

Soon shall the prison doors be opened and those around the Youth shall go forth. Thus hath it been inscribed in a preserved Tablet.  BH04324

my hope is that that family may attain eternal life and that household may become manifestations of the favors of the All-Merciful   AB06897

Soon there shall appear in the city that which was sent down in the Tablets. Your Lord is verily the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH08494

I swear by the Sun in the heaven of divine power that erelong the friends shall behold their stations in the most exalted of places.  BH07280

and giveth you glad tidings of Him Who shall come after and of Him Whom God shall make manifest, that ye may attain unto every grace   BH04386

Soon shall the cawing be raised in most regions. The divine promise hath been fulfilled and the cawers are stirring in all directions.  BH11487

We have encompassed the world through Our Most Exalted Word. God shall, through it, soon conquer the hearts of all who dwell on earth.   BH02443

The future of Germany is very bright. The Star of the religion of Baha'u'llah will arise resplendent from the horizon of that country.   ABU2570

Soon shall come a day wherein God will manifest what He has willed as a bounty from His presence, and He is the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH06342

Now there is certainly utmost difficulty and hardship, but it will become easy. News of visitation to the Holy Land will be given later.  AB02949

The day will soon come when the light of Divine unity will have so permeated the East and the West that no man dare any longer ignore it  AB11414

Wait a little while, and from this iron and stone such a blazing fire shall appear that the universe will become a temple of divine love.  AB09148

"Soon the banner of the Ancient Beauty will be raised throughout all regions and the holy fragrances will perfume the East and the West."  AB02314

Soon you will see that in this new age and wondrous century, the gleaming light of the morn of guidance will illuminate distant horizons.  AB11719

God shall soon make manifest your station among His servants and shall exalt your names through His Name, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.  BH10725

Soon shall ye behold the Cause shining forth from the Supreme Horizon, despite those who have seized and plundered God's sincere servants   BH07944

This plain will be built and will become inhabited by a happy people. It will not take a long time this prediction will become fulfilled!   ABU1001

Erelong the tongues of all who are on earth shall be loosened in their praise. They are assuredly among those who have preceded all others.   BH04975

Soon will God seize them with a compelling force from His presence, and the banners of victory shall be raised upon the mountains and hills.  BH03902

Soon will the banners of tribulation be raised in this land and the sun of trials appear in this heaven, and the people will then be tested   BH01546

The lights of the divine pavilion shall reach the highest horizon, and the rays of the Sun of Truth shall pierce the veils of East and West   AB06169

Now they refer to the time of Daniel [Dan. 12: 12] and hold out a promise that the Promised One will appear in the year 1335 [AH, i.e. 1963].  ABU1915

Wait thou a little while, and from this iron and stone such a blazing fire shall appear that the universe will become a temple of divine love.  AB09148

The text includes the prediction "that all the Persians of that country become the lords of the universe and the stars of the eternal heaven"   AB07302

"President Wilson left his work unfinished in Europe... The only result of the war that has appeared is that this place (Palestine) is freed."  ABU0913

Erelong shall all the deniers and the idolaters be brought to naught, and the Cause of God and His sovereignty shall encompass the whole earth   BH06973

At all times We remember those on earth and give them glad tidings of that which they were promised in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH06963

Be patient until the promise cometh to pass. Then shalt thou see the people turning towards the horizon of My luminous and radiant countenance.  BH11843

Soon you will hear the peal of this trumpet from the Supreme Concourse and will hear the blast of this trumpet from the horizons of the world.   AB07585

And this will soon be achieved through the assistance and favor of the All-Merciful and this beloved one will become manifest in the gathering.  AB05875

Soon shall appear in the contingent world that which hath been ordained by the Pen of the All-Merciful. He, verily, is the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH04875

Whatever we proclaimed loudly and clearly in gatherings and churches in America that soon such and such would happen, now all has come to pass.   AB01754

whatever has flowed from the Pen of the Covenant has become manifest and evident, and whatever has not yet appeared will appear. This is certain  AB11767

Soon will the radiance of this reality shine upon the world and become the light of both worlds. Soon will you see the sincere ones in great joy.  AB04376

Soon this honor and glory will become manifest throughout all worlds, even unto the very dust itself. At that time its worth shall be recognized.  AB10344

Ere long thou shalt witness what a victory Jinab-i-Fath-i-A'zam achieved, what realm he conquered, and what spiritual sovereignty he established.  AB09912

Erelong thou shalt hear from various lands the croaking of the ravens. This is what We foretold unto the servants aforetime when We were in Iraq.   BH03867

The fragrance from the rose garden of mysteries has perfumed the horizons of all lands, and soon you will observe how the lights have shone forth.  AB06762

Unquestionably, in the future, feasts will be held uninterruptedly and such a wonderful melody shall arise from Paris as to astonish other countries.  AB08459

God shall soon exalt thy name in preserved Tablets of glory. Thus have We given thee glad tidings in truth, that thou mayest be of those who rejoice.   BH07510

Soon you shall see that no trace of this group will remain on the page of time, and the soil of Iran will be cleansed and purified of their existence.  BHU0016

It will take long before Iran becomes Iran. Until it comes under the divine breaths of God, it is impossible. Whatever reforms are made are temporary.  ABU2744

I shall, instead, direct your steps to that city which enshrines a Mystery of such transcendent holiness as neither Hijaz nor Shiraz can hope to rival.  BBU0005

Ere long will the standard of the Covenant wave from the highest horizons. At that time the worth of your counsels and exhortations will become known.   AB02841

At a time when the Europeans did not yet enjoy this ascendancy and influence, I had written to Abdul-Hamíd, indicating to him what would come to pass.  ABU3725

Soon the victory of the Kingdom will appear beyond all expectation, and "thou shalt see men enter into the religion of God in troops" will be fulfilled.  AB09671

His Holiness Christ said: 'The Children of the Kingdom will go out from it, but from the uttermost parts of the earth many will come and enter into it.'  ABU1510

It was explicitly written that the world is in great danger, and surely you have observed that what is happening today was clearly stated in that letter   AB00944

Soon shall We make it as scattered dust and leave their wealth to another people. Soon shall ye hear a cry from the lands, even as We foretold aforetime.   BH00468

Ere long ye shall see and hear how the land of Iran and the clime of the Persians shall become brilliant and illumined with the light of the sun and moon.  AB06770

The day will come when the books that have been written in this day on the Baha'i Cause will be eagerly passed from hand to hand like unto leaves of gold.  AB01006

Look not upon their present state. In future, the world of womankind will shine with lustrous brilliance, for such is the will and purpose of Baha'u'llah.  AB00799

I have set a conflagration throughout America. Its results will become known later. Wait for two years and you will behold the appearance of many traces.   ABU2595

Soon the divine light will illumine East and West, and nothing will remain for them except regret and remorse for why they did not take preventive action.   AB07518

In those letters it was foretold that Tabriz would become bloodstained and the party of Mirza Hasan the mujtahid would be defeated, reversed and disgraced.  AB12134

The Truth has informed all in wondrous and sublime Tablets of the great tribulation, that perchance the people might not be perturbed when it comes to pass   BH10570

this century is a luminous century and this age is the age of the All-Merciful. The dawn of guidance has risen. The Sun of Truth has shone with utmost heat.  AB10513

These dear people are near to the threshold of the Lord and will progress day by day until they make up for the thousand years of humiliation and hardship.   AB05353

Ere long He shall send down upon His loved ones that which shall make them victorious over all things, and after they have been overcome they shall triumph.   BH08480

Of the span of your earthly life there remain only three months and nine days, after which you shall, with faith and certitude, hasten to your eternal abode.  BBU0008

I swear by the Most Great Name that soon this association will become the desire of the world's sovereigns and the source of pride for the kings of nations.   AB05575

It was written repeatedly before that the upheaval in Iran would intensify and the severity and disturbance would increase. Now it is exactly as was written.  AB02816

Thou didst promise me in these days that Thou wouldst extinguish the fire of corruption and wickedness and manifest the light of righteousness and godliness.   BH05776

We previously informed all of hidden and concealed matters. No event hath occurred on earth except that We mentioned it beforehand from Our Most Exalted Pen.   BH01416

All, except those who ride in the Ship of God. Those will be saved. That Ship is the Ship of the Kingdom, it is heavenly. Whoever boards it will never drown.   ABU2433

Regarding the recent events and incidents in Tehran - read what was revealed by the Supreme Pen forty years ago in the Kitab-i-Aqdas and give the glad-tidings.  AB09763

Soon shall they who have committed iniquity, infamy, rancor and hatred become aware of their own loss and the triumph of the Party of God, and shall witness it.  BH04702

In the divine Tablets there is an indication which proves that that land and territory will ultimately be illumined by the brilliant lights of the Sun of Truth.  AB02375

May the trumpet blast sound so that country receives new life from the life-giving breeze and the fame and renown of the new Cause sets East and West in motion.   AB11680

Ere long shall We, with the fingers of might, rend asunder the veil that hath come between Us and the servants, that His lights may shine forth amongst the worlds  BH11002

Soon will the breezes of glory waft, and the nightingale of gladness will warble in the hearts of the loved ones of thy Lord, the All-Forgiving, the All-Merciful.  BH05461

The text mentions Baha'u'llah's predictions about "the loss of the Land of Mystery (Adrianople) from the Ottoman Sultan's control" and "the revolution of Tehran"   ABU1550

Soon shall appear that which hath been inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in a Tablet which God hath preserved in the pavilion of grandeur through power and might.   BH05203

These treatises will become, in the passage of centuries and ages, a sign of human virtues and a banner of firmness and steadfastness raised to the highest heaven.   AB05284

I gave you the glad tiding that this indifference will be changed into deep interest and in the very center of Paris the Standard of Baha'u'llah shall be upraised.   ABU2927

Soon shall the world be seen purified and sanctified from whatsoever is therein. Shall that which it containeth endure for its people? Nay, by the life of thy Lord!   BH07081

Ere long significant and scientific discussions concerning this matter will arise among the people of discernment and insight and it will produce the desired result.  AB07144

Therefore I await that village to become, through the radiance of the favors of the Lord of creation, the mother of villages and the niche of the lights of guidance   AB05971

If Germany is victorious, then the Ottoman Empire will be triumphant as well. Otherwise if the Ottoman army advances into Egyptian territory, it would not be lasting.   ABU2714

Verily He is with His Afnan, and soon shall their stations be made manifest in the realm, despite those who have disbelieved in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.  BH10499

We cherish the hope that through the light of the Manifestation of Him Who conversed with Moses and through the fire of the Blessed Tree, the world will be set ablaze.   BH03475

"I proclaimed seven years ago that Europe was an arsenal that needed but a spark to turn it into a volcano. The world leaders, I urged, must prevent this catastrophe."   ABU0612

Thus were they increased in their bewilderment and swooning, save those whom thy Lord did show mercy - these attained unto wakefulness and grew in vigilance and insight.  AB09057

"Yes. New arts and other inventions that will perfect the existing ones. Everything will be renewed, in every department. This generation cannot be compared to the past."  ABU0720

In the future, a form of electricity shall be discovered whereby, within the stone itself and without connection to any power plant, electric lights shall be illuminated.  ABU2847

Ere long the regions of the West will become the dawning-place of the East, and the Sun of Truth will shine in such wise that the darkness of ignorance will be dispelled.   AB04995

"Ere long thou shalt hear the thunderous peals of this bell and the resonant sound of this Bugle from the Supreme Concourse, glorifying and praising My Lord the El Abha!"   ABU2149

We previously announced that the cawing of the crows would be raised and fiery leaves would be spread abroad. In these days this hath appeared and shall continue to appear.   BH02475

Although today its worth is not known, ere long God, glorified and exalted be He, will make manifest its value and demonstrate its station unto all the peoples of the world.   BH10644

The children of Israel will gather in Jerusalem according to the texts of the Prophets...Israel shall gather in the Holy Land, and this is a promise that shall not prove false.  AB03845

He shall appear with truth and shall raise up Our Cause through a power from Us and a might from Our presence and He shall fear no one and the perverters shall not prevent Him.   BH10884

Soon strangers and relatives will become familiar and will regret, and will take pride and glory in your faith and certitude as one intoxicated with the wine of the love of God.  AB05352

Soon shalt thou witness the glorious results of this service. Thou hast sown pure seeds that shall yield many harvests. Thou hast planted a sapling that shall bear endless fruit   AB07565

This Cause must needs have a focal point, and every announcement has its fixed time, but it is not permissible to specify by name. You shall surely know its tidings after a time.  AB04613

states that although this bounty is currently hidden due to limited capacity of the time, it will become manifest in future when "this enchanting beauty will cast aside the veil"  AB05948

The day is approaching, when ye shall witness how, through the splendor of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, the West will have replaced the East, radiating the light of Divine Guidance.  AB11552

There shall appear in this land the manifestation of the letter D, who shall call the people unto Satan, and this is a matter that hath been irrevocably decreed in the Mother Book   BH02741

By God! The blessed supreme verse "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets" hath been fulfilled by the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.   BH03292

Soon that which is hidden shall appear in the realm of manifestation, and the deniers, polytheists and heedless ones shall cry out "Alas for us, for what we neglected towards God!"   BH02719

These are the first days of turmoil in this land, as We foretold in the Land of Mystery. Although outwardly nothing is apparent, soon that which is hidden therein shall be revealed.  BH01782

Iran will become good in any case - Iran's success and prosperity is assured... Iran will become a paradise and achieve complete progress, but only when the majority are believers.   ABU0688

The divine friends shall witness the misleading Isfahani and his followers in eternal degradation like the degradation of the Jews. And this is a promise that shall not prove false.  AB04989

shall rise up and encompass the whole world, its branches and leaves shall reach the summit of glory, and it shall bear such fruits as will perfume all the world with their fragrance  AB10319

Though the value of this bounty and favor remains hidden now, in the future this gift shall shine forth in such splendor that the kings of the world will yearn for but a moment of it.  AB09500

Praise be to God, whatever was revealed in the Sacred Tablets fifty years ago has fully come to pass, and even the opposers inserted those verses in their own book and published them.  AB00491

In a short (time) the Persians also will raise their head to the summit of honor and from the attainment of this great favor they will say "happiness be upon us, happiness be upon us."  AB02228

you observed in London that what flowed from the Supreme Pen fifty years ago - which all deemed impossible and unattainable, and which the ignorant even ridiculed - has now come to pass  AB03131

"The Blessed Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - would always mention Khurasan, saying that it would become the source of divine traces and the center of lights."  AB01513

Three thousand years ago, through the tongue of the Prophets, He gave glad tidings to the Holy Land... so that the Holy Land would be illumined and the promise of the Prophets fulfilled  AB00427

just as Christ said: "Perhaps I will come and you will not know it" and "The coming of the Son of Man is like when a thief is in the house and the owner of the house does not know it."   AB06732

Ere long these grievous days and severe times shall pass away and the beauty of assurance will unveil itself from the manifest horizon, and thou shalt see the wrongdoers in manifest loss.  AB06294

Though the measure of this bounty and favor remains hidden now, in the future this gift shall shine forth in such splendor that the kings of the world will yearn for a single moment of it.  AB09500

And this will undoubtedly come to pass, for the promises that God made through the tongue of the Prophets to this scattered and dispersed people will be fulfilled in this Most Great Cycle.  AB04664

All this was foretold by the Prophets of old from God, the Lord of Justice and Sovereign of Grace. Blessed is the soul that perceiveth these matters, pondereth them, and is awakened thereby.  BH00241

"Although at present, while this bounty exists, its value remains hidden from the people of the world, yet ere long the loftiness of this station and its exalted nature shall become manifest."  BH06901

There will be a general war between the European powers and Germany of course will take a prominent part. Baha'u'llah has predicted a war between Germany and France and this will be fulfilled!  ABU3286

Among these is the departure of this Servant from this land, did ye but know it. Say: In this departure are signs that none shall comprehend save God, the Mighty, the Powerful, the All-Praised   BH05546

Then will all the peoples of the world witness that this community is spiritually illumined and divinely guided. Then will the whole earth resound with the praises of its majesty and greatness.  AB10797

"three or four years ago a detailed prayer was sent to Dahaj. Request a copy of that prayer from Dahaj for you and the friends to review. The details of the entire incident were foretold in it"  AB03389

Soon shall the wrongdoers know what fate awaits them. Before long these dark clouds shall pass and this murky dust shall settle, and the burden shall remain upon the necks of the corrupt ones.   AB01388

The world and its condition will change to such a degree and the Baha'i Cause will prevail to such an extent that nothing but a remnant - like these pillars - will remain of the previous order.   ABU3468

Then they mentioned that it is well known among people that there is a hadith which states that on the Day of the Manifestation of the Qa'im, seven mills shall turn with the blood of the clergy.  ABU1621

The Cause of God will make great progress in Germany. It will surpass all other regions. Although London and its surroundings are better than Paris, Germany will progress more than anywhere else.  ABU2315

Likewise will the heedless souls soon awaken and become conscious, and utter words of praise for the friends and handmaidens of the All-Merciful, and envy their servitude and yearn to serve them   AB03177

So await the day when the sky shall come with crimson light, and the Maiden of Infallibility shall appear from the horizon of eternity, and the believers shall then rejoice in the gladness of God   BH05439

Although the radiance of that Light is now concealed from view and hidden from the wicked, yet ere long that world-illumining light will shine forth and its warming rays will set the world ablaze.  AB08046

Their turn shall come; perhaps an effort will be made to unite their various peoples. We are now in Britain and will depart for Haifa in a few months; let us see what the Will of God has in store.  ABU3728

Although the hosts of the Kingdom of the Beloved Beauty are attacking these stubborn people, and soon "thou shalt not hear from them any sound or whisper" and "ye shall see them in manifest loss."   AB04730

Soon you will observe that the banner of sanctification will be raised, and the standard of the unity and love of mankind will wave at the pole of the horizons, universal peace will be established   AB01970

'Abdu'l-Baha so desires that that region and territory may become the pride of all countries and that souls may arise who will be signs of guidance and the object of praise of the Concourse on High.   AB12078

"Soon you will witness how the divine lights of oneness will encompass the kingdom of existence and how the banners of divine words will be raised upon the lofty mountains of the realities of beings."  AB02482

God willing the days of expansion will come and the hidden things will be revealed and the concealed stations will raise their banners in the realm of knowledge. This is truth, there is no doubt in it.  BH06139

Await ye the Day which ye were promised in the Tablets, when the sun shall be darkened and the moon shall not give her light and the stars shall fall upon the face of the earth. Say: The Day hath come   BH02486

The American continent gives signs and evidences of very great advancement. Its future is even more promising, for its influence and illumination are far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually.  AB10300

God shall soon inform them in the far-off land, by the leave of God, the Praiseworthy, with the truth, by the truth. Soon shall the All-Merciful call you to prostrate before Him, but you will be unable.  BB00002

The American continent giveth signs and evidences of very great advancement. Its future is even more promising, for its influence and illumination are far reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually.  ABU1241

"In the future, proportionately about three-quarters of the profits will go to the workmen and one-quarter to the owner. This condition will prevail in about one century. It will certainly come to pass."  ABU3026

Praise be to God; whatever has been explicitly recorded in the Divine Tablets has been fully realised and all the warnings and appeals 'Abdu'l-Baha in Temples and gatherings of America have come to pass.  AB01489

"Soon shall the idolaters lament over their own selves, while the sincere shall find themselves in a station that nothing on earth can equal and which all the pens of the earth are powerless to describe."  BH07746

That which will cause the lamp to shine hath been ordained for you in the Tablets. Soon shall the unitarians behold that which hath been ordained for you from God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH03606

These lights shall shine forth and these signs shall appear, and it shall be proven that servitude at the Sublime Threshold is a glorious crown whose most resplendent jewels shall gleam upon the horizons   AB06386

Three years ago a letter and prayer were written to Dahj, and within it, without explicit statement but through allusion, the current events regarding Siyyid Mahdi were foretold in the language of prayer.  AB04316

I shall illustrate for you the future of Iran through an example...Infer then what Iran, which is green and verdant, which has beautiful flowers, a temperate climate, and soft-flowing waters, will become!  ABU0550

Now too, while the value of that village is unknown to eyes, soon it will become clear and evident, and the divine edifice will be raised high, and the lights of eternal glory will shine upon that village.   AB03767

The Promise hath come, and the Promised One calleth out before the faces of the unseen and the seen, and commandeth them with that which draweth them near and acquainteth them with what was hidden from them.  BH10695

I swear by the Sun of Revelation that the mention of this shall never be erased from the Tablet of creation, and its effects shall appear and become manifest even as the sun from the horizon of divine grace   BH08786

Whatever has issued from the Supreme Pen will definitely come to pass, but we servants must strive and surge and cry out until we become successful in this service and become the manifestation of this bounty.  AB03939

Soon will the dense clouds disperse from the horizon of the world, and the brilliant morn will shine forth with brilliant rays. The divine fragrances will be diffused and the Word of God will become renowned.  AB06772

As for the future of Iran, it will be one of joy and delight, and through the diffusion of divine fragrances and the chanting of evident verses it will cause the people of the world to turn towards [the Faith].   AB05441

Soon shall the might of the oppressors and the calumnies of the infidels be erased by God's prevailing Will, and there shall remain for you that which hath been ordained by the Supreme Pen in this exalted station.  BH10126

Ere long the manifest signs of this divine bounty shall become apparent from the dawning-place of hopes, and the brilliant tokens of this infinite grace shall be recited in the manifest book of horizons and souls.  AB06899

Soon will this divine trumpet blast render the world and its peoples senseless, and the fragrance of this spiritual rose-garden will perfume the nostrils of the spiritually-minded, despite the enemies' opposition.   AB01662

Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation before the completion of a full thousand years, such a one is assuredly a lying impostor. And whoso interpreteth this verse differently, verily he is of those who have gone astray.   BH05822

Yet these gifts and bounties are still like pure seeds hidden and preserved in the depths of the earth, but will soon become evident and known, and like brilliant lights and gleaming stars become manifest and renowned  AB04465

Iran is destined to advance greatly and to become even as a delightsome paradise. Nay, I cherish the hope that it may become the envy of the world and that its musk-laden fragrances may perfume the East and the West!   AB02170

I foretell things before they happen and I write about them before they occur. The destruction of two or three houses is of no importance, but the importance lies in what is coming, which is the destruction of America.  ABU2309

Soon that which is hidden from the eyes of men shall be unveiled, and those nigh unto God shall behold through their Lord's bounty that which the pens of the world and every discerning scholar are powerless to describe   BH04236

Soon you will observe that plain and wilderness will become the envy of highest paradise, and the Most Glorious Garden will raise its tent in the East and West of the world, and the Kingdom of existence will be adorned.  AB03162

Soon there shall be revealed to you what lies hidden in an inscribed Book... I swear by the Sun of the heaven of inner meanings that ere long whatsoever hath flowed from the Divine Pen shall become manifest and evident.   BH03654

Soon the breezes of divine confirmation will waft and the lights of unity will shine forth and the divine candle will be ignited and hearts will become lanterns of light and souls will become dawning-places of mysteries.  AB04929

Soon you shall witness how the sun of the East, Iran, will illumine the Daylamites and Tajiks, nay even the Americans and Africans, and all that was the heart's desire and soul's repose of the ancients shall come to pass.  AB08070

That Most Great Sea will soon send forth a wave that will cast all these foam-flecks to the shore. Before this inevitable event, souls must become aware and take shelter in the sheltering shade of the Tree of Divine Unity.   AB01676

Soon you shall see the banners of guidance waving on the highest mountain peaks, the signs of truth encompassing the earth's globe, and the traces of your Lord's gifts appearing in all directions like the sun at high noon.   AB00554

After this, extraordinary things will come to pass. The kings of the earth, bearing earthen vessels upon their heads, shall make their way from the Most Exalted Station to the Holy Shrine, uttering prayers of supplication.   ABU1685

soon thou shalt hear its resounding voice in the East and West of the earth. Then thou shalt see necks bowed before its sovereignty, heads bent before its proof, and faces humbled before the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting   AB06507

so that through the power of the Greatest Name, the foundation of ignorance may be demolished and Iran may become the mine of divine guidance, the paradise of the All-Merciful, and the dawning-place of the lights of the Lord  AB03483

Soon the whole world, as in springtime, will change its garb. The turning and falling of the autumn leaves is past; the bleakness of the wintertime is over. The new year hath appeared and the spiritual springtime is at hand.  AB02755

O 'Ali! That which We foretold thee hath come to pass. With thy Lord is the knowledge of all things preserved in a guarding tablet. God shall soon manifest in the earth that which shall gladden the hearts of the sincere ones.   BH04150

Who knoweth, it could be that the gates of all things will not all attain His presence, and yet He may ordain the return of the creation of the Bayan, and to wrap up, in His grasp, all the heavens that are raised in the Bayan.  BB00001

Look not at the present moment only, like those who lack insight. Ere long ye shall behold the sanctified banner of God's loved ones waving above the horizon of the world, and their radiance illuminating the east and the west.  AB04650

The earth hath borne the burden of this greatest terror, and soon shall it give birth to its load. Then shall ye flee to the right and find no friend for yourselves, and run to the left and find no helper for your beings.   BH03399

It is hoped through the grace and bounty of the Sun of Providence that that region may become the envy of the highest paradise and that country may become, through divine assistance and favor, a mirror of the most luminous sun.   AB06128

The continent of America is in the eyes of the one true God the land wherein the splendors of His light shall be revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith shall be unveiled, where the righteous will abide and the free assemble.  AB00242

Convey my greetings to thy revered husband and say to him: There shall appear in that great continent, a sign. Turn thy attention to it, so that thereby thy luminous heart may attain confidence. Verily, thy Lord is All-Powerful.   AB03826

Soon you will observe that the radiance of the Persians' light will illuminate East and West like the shining moon. The fame of Persia will become world-embracing, and the renown of that captive group will encompass East and West.   AB06579

Erelong shalt thou witness East and West embracing each other as two lovers, and Eastern and Western nations being intoxicated with the same cup. Iran shall become the focal centre of the world and the sanctuary of all its peoples.  AB02626

The people of Stuttgart and Esslingen are very warm-hearted, sincere and genuinely attracted to the Cause. They will surpass all other Europeans and will cause great excitement throughout Europe; they will stir the whole continent.  ABU2317

What he revealed in tablets about fifty years ago is accomplished today. Amongst his prophecies are those about the Turks in Kitab-i-Aqdas, Surat-ul-Hykl and in the Tablet to Ra'is. Whatever was revealed has now been accomplished.   ABU0402

These stories of the prophets recorded in the Koran are not for the sake of writing history. They are a warning to the future generations after Mohamad, so that they may know what was done by former people to the Messengers of God.  ABU1889

Soon they shall witness its exaltation and ascendancy and the appearance of that which hath been ordained by the Pen of God, the Lord of all worlds. Say: O people! By God's life, that which never appeared in the world hath appeared.   BH04250

all the events of these years of commotion have been set forth fifty years ago by the Supreme Pen and all, one by one, have come to pass. From among them is the prediction about Universal Peace which shall be eventually established.   AB02641

And assuredly it will soon create such a spirit and fragrance in Kermanshah that even the enemies will cry out in lamentation... And soon thou shalt see the greatest signs appear to all from this martyrdom in the field of sacrifice.   AB01565

After two thousand years of wandering, the Jewish people will return to the Holy Land and embrace the Cause of God. From here divine civilization will be propagated unto the whole of the world and provide it with serenity and comfort.  ABU2213

The Hour hath come, yet ye turn away from it. The Awakening hath appeared, yet ye remain heedless of it. The earthquake hath seized all who are on earth save those who have come unto the All-Merciful after drinking the cup of assurance.   BH03975

Although it is not apparent now, yet ere long this true Beloved will unveil His countenance and appear manifest in the assemblage of the world. At that moment the blessed leaves will utter these words: "This is that for which I yearned!"  AB07663

"By God, the True One, Verily the Prophecies of the Books and the predictions of the Tablets have come to pass and become manifest, like unto the manifestation of the lights of the Sun and are shining upon all the countries and regions."  AB04218

Although this condition is not now evident and clear but rather concealed and hidden, yet ere long it shall become manifest and apparent. When this tree puts forth its blossoms and leaves, reveals its true nature and brings forth its fruit  AB09569

"After Me shall come the Paraclete (or Advocate)." ... When Mohammed put forth His claim, a great multitude of the disciples of Christ believed in Him as the man who put forward the claim of being the Comforter mentioned in St. John 16:13.  ABU2884

Be not sad owing to the present ruin of the House. The time of its building shall come very soon. We must destroy and build it again, but its first form shall not undergo any change. Rest ye assured that it will be constructed most solidly.  ABU2752

"Again I wrote to Persia that so long as the nation and the government do not combine like milk and honey, prosperity and happiness are impossible. Persia will become desolate and the end result will be intervention by neighboring powers."   ABU2208

"This date is reckoned according to solar time. From the declaration of Muhammad thirteen hundred thirty-five years will pass according to solar reckoning. There will be a very blessed Cause at that time, this is reckoning from the Hijrah."   ABU0071

There will come a day when you will see how the nightingales of Persia will sing their songs of God in these gardens. Likewise, the quails of America in the mountains of Persia shall cause such a "quailing" as to cause the mountains to dance.  ABU2090

The Blessed Beauty always said - even during the height of our tribulations in the prison - that this captivity would not last very long and gave hope and promise for victory that soon both our sufferings and the glory of the foes would end.   ABU1970

Soon will the fruits of the mention of the Peerless Beloved appear unto His servants in the kingdom. Then will the idolaters say: "Oh, woe unto us for what we neglected in the days of God and for what we were heedless of that which appeared."   BH05007

Since this is so, ere long Nahavand shall become a sublime paradise and its foundations shall become the highest heaven. That plain and desert and that mountain and wilderness shall be perfumed with the fragrance of the Most Glorious Paradise.   AB02127

Ere long ye will, with your own eyes, witness how brilliantly every one of you, even as a shining star, will radiate in the firmament of your country the light of Divine Guidance and will bestow upon its people the glory of an everlasting life.  AB11305

Soon shall We seize them as We seized the generations of old. Verily thy Lord is the All-Compelling, and when His promise cometh, severe in His chastisement. Soon shall the sun of glory rise from the horizon of My Cause and illumine all regions.   BH04155

The gifts of this promised age will soon become manifest and the means for achieving the goal will appear. The friends will become joyous through the grace of the All-Merciful, while the heedless will be afflicted with eternal loss and detriment.  AB12331

Praise be to God, whatever was revealed in the Tablets of Baha'u'llah fifty years ago - and those Tablets have been printed and published - all of it has been exactly fulfilled and realized like the sun manifest, and no doubt remains for anyone.   AB02376

May the world become another world, and may the realm of creation seek new beauty and adornment. May the Most Glorious Paradise pitch its tent on the dusty earth, and may the Lote Tree of the Furthermost Boundary cast its shadow upon all horizons.  AB00422

No day hath been ordained in the Book save the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, for on that Day whosoever accepteth the Command of God from Him - He verily is the Source of the effulgence of those lights and the Treasury of those mysteries.  BB00003

The Bab - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - stated that people should provide means for swift communication so that news of Him Whom God shall make manifest could spread to all regions with maximum speed. In a short time the telegraph appeared.  AB05932

The Ancient Beauty once resided at the foot of Mount Carmel in Haifa, where He mentioned several stories of the Prophets about that land and some glad-tidings that were given concerning it, all of which prophecies and references have been fulfilled.  AB01516

Soon will that which was closed be opened, and that which was joined be separated, and he who was barred will enter, and that which was united will be divided, and that which was difficult will become easy, and that which was hidden will be revealed.  BH11507

Were it not for the Resurrection, this Book would not have been raised up. Verily the Day of Resurrection is like unto that Day wherein God will manifest the Primal Tree. On that Day God will abrogate what He willeth and confirm what He desireth.  BB00004

Regarding the current situation, fifteen months ago a detailed account was written to Tehran, which was published there and distributed throughout Iran, stating that a great danger would soon encompass all and war and conflict would become worldwide.   AB12102

The Youth shall soon appear with the adornment of the All-Merciful amidst all existence. He shall be recognized by those who knew Him not, and shall be seen by those who saw Him not. On that day the heedless shall lament while the sincere shall rejoice.  BH08362

The poetries which are composed in these days will be mentioned by the poets and thinkers throughout the ages and after a thousand years they will be chanted and sung in the great meetings, vast congregations and wonderful Temples throughout the world.   AB07233

Awaken, O people! The Herald hath cried out in the wilderness of the Bayan, and this is the Day of the great calling. How long will ye slumber on the couch of heedlessness and desire? Arise and turn unto God, and follow not every doubting idolater.   BH00739

Soon the results and fruits of steadfastness and firmness will become manifest and apparent. Then shall the believers rejoice and the sincere ones be gladdened, and the Covenant-breakers shall be in loss and the pillars of the violators shall be shaken.   AB06715

Ere long the Lamp of the Covenant of the Supreme Concourse will shine so brightly in the assemblage of the world that the darkness will be utterly dispelled and these foam-like doubts will be completely effaced from the face of the ocean of evident signs  AB03686

be of good cheer and let thy heart rejoice, for the standard of the Covenant shall wave at the center of all horizons and the sun of the Covenant shall shine with the most intense radiance upon the East and West of the earth. This is an inevitable truth.   AB03571

Know thou that the horizons of the Orient are illumined with the Lights of the Kingdom and ere long these Lights shall shine from the dawning-places of the occident far more than from the Orient, regenerating souls with divine instructions in those parts.   AB02473

If the Turkish government is so anxious to preserve her integrity, would it not be better to protect her domains from the aggressions of Russia, England and France and leave these poor Jews and their Messianic dream of a concrete Sovereignty to themselves?   ABU0953

Today the station of deeds and their fruit is hidden from sight. The All-Knowing One declareth: Erelong shall the deeds, actions and remembrances of the servants and handmaidens become manifest in the assemblage of the world and be proclaimed from the pulpits.   BH07531

When turning away and gazing out of the window as though into the future. Each sentence is a prophecy soon in vision: that all religion become one that all differences may be removed. And this is that, I hope, all people be of one creed and all nations as one.   ABU2353

If you wish to know about the conditions of this land, it is in upheaval as was revealed in previous Tablets... The Tablet of Mallahu'l-Quds which was revealed in Iraq - if you can obtain a correct copy, study it. That which was revealed therein has come to pass.  BH04167

Now consider what shall come to pass for thee. Erelong shalt thou see a great transformation occurring in thy family. Every one of thy relations will claim precedence in his belief and every stranger will take pride in knowing thee and say he is thy kith and kin.  AB02222

Certainly the time will come, and it is near, when the nations of the world will cry out and will no longer be able to bear the overwhelming expenses of war, and souls will be compelled to peace, for any matter that reaches its ultimate degree must then decline.   ABU2129

Therefore it is hoped that you will show a radiant face in the Abha Kingdom and become a flower in the Abha Paradise, an ornament of the gathering, and an adornment of the rose garden and meadow, and be the cause of comfort and tranquility for government and nation   AB04761

Two or three years ago He wrote to some of the Believers in America and also to Dr. Kheiralla, stating those events (His imprisonment and persecutions), which have now taken place. He also wrote the same things to other countries, and they are now exactly fulfilled.   ABU1180


Soon will the lights of the Cause encompass the world, although now faces are turned toward the direction of infidelity. However, an appointed time hath been fixed for it. When it is fulfilled, that which is recorded in God's Books, the Lord of the worlds, shall appear.  BH03751

Nevertheless, its appearance hath been made one of the signs of the coming of age of the human race, and the time when this shall happen hath been fixed. As yet it hath not come, but when it cometh it shall be manifested through the power of Him Who is the Sovereign Truth.  BH02383

When that melody and song reaches the ears of the people of mystery in the monasteries of the Kingdom, that clime will be stirred into motion and the morn of guidance will shine so brightly that the darkness of error will be utterly dispersed and matters will be set right   AB05401

Although its radiance is not now manifest and evident, yet this praiseworthy light shall have its manifestation and appearance throughout ages and cycles, and this bounty shall have such brilliance and effulgence that the eyes of the heedless shall be dazzled and blinded.   AB04085

Now Consider this Tablet - all that befell him was explicitly foretold therein without any ambiguity. Blessed are they who read! Blessed are they who ponder! Blessed are they who are sincere! Likewise, reflect upon its wondrous creation and dispatch with power and majesty.  BH00937

You shall soon witness heavenly bounty and the bestowals of the All-Merciful Lord. You shall soon observe how the rays of the lights of holiness have illumined the East and West, and how the call of the angel of the Most Glorious Kingdom has awakened both Orient and Occident  AB04392

Soon he shall find the gates of divine confirmation opened and his illumined breast expanded. He shall witness the hosts of the highest heaven attacking like the waves of the Abha Kingdom's sea, and shall behold the armies of divine assistance with their successive banners.   AB02474

Once again a time will come as sweet as sugar. The time will come when the procession of pilgrims of all lands will be densely extended from the gate of Akka to the Holy Tomb without any interruption. Thus men of all nations and districts will come to visit this Sacred Spot.  ABU3188

Soon he shall see that these dark clouds have vanished and the Sun of Truth is shining with utmost brilliance. On that day the believers shall rejoice and the losers shall regret and say "Woe unto us for what we neglected in regard to God and we were an evil, losing people."  AB11703

In the future, however, a hundred thousand Mashriqu'l-Adhkars shall be reared with the utmost glory, dignity, and majesty. This Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of 'Ishqabad hath the station of the mother, and the other Mashriqu'l-Adhkars are like unto children that shall be born from it.   AB11810

This question of the union of the white and the black is very important, for if it is not realized, erelong great difficulties will arise, and harmful results will follow ... enmity will be increased day by day, and the final result will be hardship and may end in bloodshed.  AB10765

Although this bounty is now like a seed, hidden and concealed, yet ere long it shall sprout forth, put forth branches and leaves, bring forth blossoms and yield fresh and tender fruit. Then will it become clear and evident what a supreme paradise it is and what a mighty gift.  AB11206

The star of the ancient ones' existence had vanished in the west of nothingness, but has now risen again from the east of being and become bright and radiant. The banner of the forebears has been raised high, and the glad tidings of the prophets have become clear and evident.   AB02898

Regarding what you wrote about the war between the two powers, all that was revealed in the Tablet to Ra'is has come to pass...However, concerning the victor, certain statements have been revealed from the heaven of knowledge indicating that he too will not maintain this power.  BH01950

O people! Set not a time for the Hour, for ye know not, neither set ye a term for it nor speak of what ye imagine, for none knoweth it save God. And when God willeth to manifest it, then will He manifest Me even as He hath manifested Me from whence ye reckoned not and knew not.  BB00004

Ere long will the standard of the Cause of God be unfurled in the midmost heart of the world in such wise as to astonish all the nations... ere long will ye witness the power of the Word of God, and the supremacy of the Law of God and the pervading potency of the verses of God   AB00611

When Napoleon III was at the height of power Baha'u'llah wrote him that God will destroy the foundation of his Kingdom. Likewise, His addresses to Sultan Abdul-Aziz, Sultan Abdul Hamid, the Shah of Persia, Nasser-ed-din etc are famous for the speedy fulfillment of their prophecies.  ABU0159

Those who have provided the means for transporting arms and ammunition and the instruments of wars and massacres on earth will do so in the air. There will come to exist such instruments as to cause all the means of destruction in the past to be looked upon as children's playthings.  ABU3287


Soon these reproachful souls will boast of their connection to you and will claim secret belief, saying "We were concealing our faith and practicing dissimulation." Not much time will pass before all people will say to the friends of God: "By God, truly God has preferred you above us."  AB07543

It is hoped that wonderful effects will be displayed in the future, that the friends of God may live and act in accord with the heavenly teachings, in order that the region of America may become the Paradise of ABHA, that desert and wilderness become the rose-garden of human perfections  AB05645

A smoldering volcano, fiery and volatile, lieth hid beneath the soil of Europe. The least spark will cause it to burst forth into a violent conflagration which shall abase the exalted and spread to the other continents of the world. Then will the fire of hell have seized the whole earth.  AB00344

Therefore we hope that this autumn of pain and tribulation will pass and the life-giving spring will come, and that from sweet fragrances and holy breezes nostrils will be perfumed. This lamp of the love of God will flame forth and the song of mystic knowledge will reach to heaven's zenith.  AB11663

As for the gathering of the Jews in Jerusalem and Palestine, this was previously revealed by the Supreme Pen, and in 'Abdu'l-Baha's letters thirty years ago, this glad tiding was given in detail to the Jews. Have no doubt that all will eventually enter under the shadow of the Lord of Hosts.  AB04721

Know there shall appear wonderful traces; the breath of God shall pass by; the fragrance of God shall spread and the Spirit of God shall run in the body of the contingent world both before and after my departure; but I supplicate God that He may grant the greatest spirituality in these days.  AB01355

Consider the former centuries and those who committed oppression - their tongues were stilled, their traces were erased, and the breezes of chastisement overtook them from all directions...Soon these who have waxed proud and committed that which causeth the near ones to lament shall join them.   BH03865

Erelong thou shalt behold the celestial blessing of this prayer, and the radiance of the light of God's mighty Cause. Thou shalt witness the widespread diffusion of this light to the highest heaven, and thou shalt see how from this new spirit a mighty power is released over the entire creation.  AB09102

Through the favors of the Lord of Hosts, the Promised One, my hope is that this journey of thine may become like the journey of Paul and like the journey of Peter when he went to Antioch - see what mighty results it had! Now the results of thy journey will be even greater, be thou assured of this.  AB06361

In the Most Holy Book, forty years ago, the events of this year in Tehran were explicitly recorded, that in the land of Ta there would be popular movement, but afterwards the throne of sovereignty would be adorned by an important personage and every difficulty that arose would gradually pass away.  AB02684

Surely a day will come when all thy desires will be attained and God will answer all that which thou hast prayed for in thine heart, and I beg of Him to make all that which thou hast longed for long ago very attainable. Then thine heart will be overflowed with joy on account of such a great bounty.  AB09628

Though the physical eye cannot yet see it, soon it will sprout and become verdant and flourishing. Eyes will be brightened and hearts and souls will rejoice. Iran will become the Garden of Paradise and East and West will become mirrors of the celestial realm through the bounty of the Sun of Truth.   AB02056

The Blessed Beauty made mention of Khorasan, saying that this blessed Cause would be spread there. Everyone thought that the Blessed One's intention was Khorasan itself, but later when the grace of the Blessed Beauty was directed entirely toward 'Ishqabad, they realized that was the intended place.  ABU2989

after the complete weakening of the Ottoman state, other powers shall intervene and establish peace, and after some time the government of the earth shall completely change, tyranny shall encompass the world, then after a universal revolution the Sun of Justice shall dawn from the horizon of the unseen  BH10673

I can see now that the entire Mount Carmel is filled with light and a thousand ships are anchored in the Port of Haifa. I can see the kings of the earth, carrying wreaths of flowers, prayerfully, with great humility, and with utmost consecration, walking on foot to the Shrines of Baha'u'llah and the Bab.  ABU1689

"The wise man sees that another army with no cannons or rifles but with quite other armaments shall defeat this Army. The day is coming when all these armies and regiments are vanquished by the ever-victorious army of the Kingdom of Abha and theirs shall be the glorious triumphs of Peace and brotherhood."   ABU2890

The future of Iran is of the utmost greatness, majesty and glory, for it is the native land of the Blessed Beauty. All the nations of the earth will regard that land with the highest esteem. Be assured that it will evince such progress as to dazzle the eyes of the mighty and the learned throughout the world.  AB01562

However, afterwards all shall be transformed by the command of the True Ordainer: tyranny into justice, agitation into tranquility, remoteness into nearness, denial into acceptance, aversion into attraction, poverty into wealth, and want into abundance. All this was decreed by thy Lord as an irrevocable fate.  BH00603

Gradually racial prejudices will be dispelled. There will come a day when the German will say to the Frenchman, 'I am a Frenchman'; and the Frenchman will say, 'I am a German'. If the governments should like to wage war the people will not agree to it. If anyone is in any place he will say, 'This is my home'.   ABU3258

In the divine Holy Books there are unmistakable prophecies giving the glad tidings of a certain Day in which the Promised One of all the Books would appear, a radiant dispensation be established, the banner of the Most Great Peace and conciliation be hoisted and the oneness of the world of humanity proclaimed.  ABU0037

A friend enquired concerning Baha'u'llah's prophecy in the Words of Paradise, that a universal language would be formed, and desired to know if Esperanto would be the language chosen. "The love and effort put into Esperanto will not be lost," he answered, "but no one person can construct a Universal Language."   ABU2871

After this war everything will be at peace. The city which was cut in three pieces means that kingdom of Babylonia, which is under three kings, those of England, Persia and Turkey. The islands and mountains mean people of influence, and also small kingdoms, which will be destroyed and annihilated at that time.   ABU0360

This is evidence that soon the fire of the love of God will blaze forth with intense flame in that land, and the light of the knowledge of God will shine in that territory with the brilliance of the sun and moon. This is certain and decreed, for it is the Will and Decree of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting.   AB04380

Previously, all events whether in Isfahan or Yazd or the surrounding areas were, through the confirmation of the Abha Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones, revealed from the pen of 'Abdu'l-Baha. And still the carpet of tests has not been rolled up - again in various corners agitation will occur.  AB05093

And although the reality of this divine gift is now hidden and concealed, yet ere long its brilliant lights shall shine forth from the dawning-place of possibility and the dayspring of existence. At that time tongues shall speak in praise of this service, and the reality of matters shall become evident and manifest.  AB08868

I hope that the star of the Iranian crown will shine and radiate at the zenith of eternal glory, and this is a promise that shall not prove false, such that the sublimity, justice, greatness and might of future kings will cause the renown of greatness and world-conquering fame of past monarchs to be wholly forgotten.   AB12158

We foretold what hath appeared in the Scriptures and Tablets, and from the horizon of tribulation do We summon the servants unto the Lord of the Day of Judgment. Through tribulation have We nurtured the Cause in bygone ages. Soon wilt thou find the Cause shining forth from the horizon of glory with power and dominion.   BH04089

The secret of the Day that is to come is now concealed. It can neither be divulged nor estimated. The newly born babe of that Day excels the wisest and most venerable men of this time, and the lowliest and most unlearned of that period shall surpass in understanding the most erudite and accomplished divines of this age.  BBU0001

Soon the remaining tyrannical souls will likewise turn to their dwellings. According to the Command, all friends must hold fast to patience and perseverance and keep their gaze fixed upon the horizons of divine ordinances. God, exalted be His glory, alone will grant victory and suffice against the evil of the oppressors.  BH00114

The radiance of these lights from the bounty of the Sovereign of existence will ere long shine forth upon the world of dominion from the center of the realm of the Kingdom, and its brilliant effects will become manifest from the dawning-place of contingent being. Be thou assured of this, for it is an irrevocable promise.  AB12479

In the tradition it is stated: "All wonder, complete wonder, between Jumadi and Rajab!" Thou art Rajab, and God willing, a First Jumadi, which is the First Spring, shall also appear. At that time "All wonder, complete wonder" - which is the witness of the delicate mystery of oneness and singleness - shall be made manifest  AB10912

I will call your attention more especially to the aspects of this war which Baha'u'llah prophesied forty years ago fully and completely. During His exile and while under surveillance in the prison of Akka He addressed a letter to the Sultan of Turkey. He, likewise, sent Epistles to Napoleon III and to the Shah of Persia.   ABU0336

Then His holiness Baha'u'llah promised him that the moral and material conditions of his people will undergo an entire transformation, assured him that the gates of God's rich treasures will be opened before them and they will rise in the scale of progress and civilization and their shame will be changed into great glory.   ABU0515

Thus did God's grace and favor encompass the Persians of an age long gone, in order that their ruined capital should be rebuilt and flourish once again. To this end, with the help of God, events were brought about which led to the Afnan's being buried here; and there is no doubt that a proud city will rise up on this site.  AB00002

"and the sun of hopes shall shine forth from the dawning-place of glory with a beauty brilliant, manifest and radiant - thou shalt find it a luminous moon. For every setting there is a rising, and for every descent an ascent. And thou shalt see beneath the shade of the Tree that which shall dispel the darkness of obscurity"  AB05424

Praise be to God that whatever (which) was written in the Tablets of His Holiness Bahaullah fifty years ago and was published and spread in those days all have come to pass. Whatever (that) is written in Ketab-el-Aqdas (the Book of Laws) and (whatever written) in Ketab-el-Haykal (the Book of the Temple) have been fulfilled.   AB00565

And although the reality of this divine gift is now hidden and concealed, yet ere long its brilliant lights shall shine forth from the dawning-place of possibility and the dayspring of all worlds. At that time, tongues shall speak forth in praise of this service, and the reality of all things shall become evident and manifest.  AB08868

Ere long will the sun of joy dawn from the horizon of divine victory, and the breezes of might shall pass, and the pavilion of glory shall be raised up, and the sign of God's triumph shall encompass all creation, and the point of tyranny shall be erased from the tablet of existence. This is a promise that shall not prove false.  BH08746

The science of aviation will make great progress in the immediate future and people will travel at ease from one city to another city without any danger. It will become as popular as automobiles. Although for the present it is not yet perfected but ere long it will be within the reach of every one to have a ride through the air.  ABU2998

Ere long shall the standards of the divine Cause be seen raised throughout all regions. On that day the tongues of all who dwell on earth shall speak forth in praise and glorification of those accepted souls who have today turned toward the court of the divine oneness, and with utmost remorse shall they make mention of these days  BH07796

He quotes in the pages of his book certain prophesies uttered by the Blessed Perfection concerning the downfall of despotism in Turkey and the deposition of the Sultan. His book was published many years before the declaration of constitution in 1908 so that no one can refute the validity of their authenticities as quoted therein.  ABU2515

"Yes, the nations will be forced to come to peace and to agree to the abolition of war. The awful burdens of taxation for war purposes will get beyond human endurance. Practically the whole of the substance of the peoples, all the fruit of their labor, is now taken away from them to be devoted to the forging of armaments everywhere."  ABU0315

The Sun of Reality will shine, and all the earth shall put on its beautiful green carpet. Among the results of the manifestation of spiritual forces will be that the human world will adapt itself to a new social form, the justice of God will become manifest throughout human affairs, and human equality will be universally established.   ABU0152

As for the events that were foretold, praise be to God they all came to pass, and whatever was in the decisive texts of Baha'u'llah and likewise in 'Abdu'l-Baha's talks in America and Europe, all occurred word for word. These texts of Baha'u'llah were revealed from the Supreme Pen fifty years ago and have now manifestly come to pass.   AB00796

My light shall shine forth, My fragrances shall waft abroad, My breezes shall pass by, and My life-giving spirit shall influence the horizons. The queens of the earth shall all come to the seat of My Kingdom that they may hear My consummate wisdom and My perfect mysteries and the realities and meanings deposited in the Tablets of God.  AB03018

The book containing these Epistles to the kings was published in India about thirty years ago and is known as the Suratu'l-Haykal ("Discourse of the Temple"). Whatever is recorded in these Epistles has happened. Some of the prophecies contained in them came to pass after two years; others were fulfilled after five, ten and twenty years.   ABU0038

For instance, in reference to the Promised One that must come after Christ, it is said in John 16:12: "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak."   AB01290

Last year, when the banner of the clergy was raised high, it was clearly written to Tehran that this agitation would not be the cause of the clergy's glory, but rather the foundation of their abasement. Do not look to their current prosperity in these days - later it will become different and their utter humiliation will be made manifest.  AB01237

The time will come when her whole family will be proud of Mrs Krug and her faith. Her husband is still distant and heedless; the time will come when he will feel himself exalted on account of Mrs Krug's faith. I see what they do not see. Ere long the whole of her family will consider the faith of that lady as the crown of honor on their heads.  ABU2978


my hope in the divine confirmations from the unseen realm is that day by day you will engage in greater service and move forward with perfect steadfastness until the Caucasus becomes the nest of the mystic Phoenix, Baku becomes musk-scented, Tiflis becomes a precious jewel, Ganja finds flowing treasure, and Shisha becomes pure, gleaming crystal.   AB03670

This year, calamities and blows of stagnation and corruption have encompassed all horizons... Surely this heedlessness, ingratitude for divine bounties, and lack of awareness will lead to regret, hardship, war and strife, and bring about loss and calamity. And if the people of the world do not turn to the Most Great Name, great danger lies ahead.  AB02074

What is being conveyed has been understood from the revealed verses - God forbid! He is indeed the Perceiver, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. That which has flowed from the Supreme Pen in God's Book has appeared and will appear, and in the Most Holy Book there are also certain allusions. Soon will appear what He has foretold in His Mighty Book.  BH00094

Daniel Chapter 4 spoke of 2520 years reduced to solar time is 2444 years, that is, from Daniel to Christ 403 years, from Christ to Baha'o'llah 1817 years, from Baha'o'llah to the end of the old religion is 144 years, altogether 2444. From 1917 there are only 44 years more to the end of old religion, consequently we can look for some terrible times.  ABU0252

Today all the women and maidens of the earth dwell beneath the tree of Zaqqum and walk in the shadow of darkness. Although this condition is not now apparent and clear but rather concealed and hidden, yet ere long it shall become evident and manifest. When this tree puts forth its blossoms and leaves, reveals its true nature and brings forth its fruit  AB09569

Therefore, 'Abdu'l-Baha awaits the time when that perfect family will shine forth in the gathering of the world with complete gifts, and the lights of eternal glory will encompass them from every direction, so that they may become known throughout the world as signs of the Blessed Beauty and standards of Baha'u'llah. And it is certain that it shall be so.  AB06620

But Israel received glad tidings from the tongue of the Prophets and intimations from divine inspiration that in the latter days divine bounties would again appear and heavenly favors would manifest, and this people would progress so much as to surpass their previous advancements, attaining eternal glory more than before and achieving complete power and might  AB01333

Soon the lights will glisten and the Sun of Truth will shine with a burning ray in that country. At that time the maid-servants who are firm and constant will rejoice; while every doubtful soul who wavers will regret. Woe unto him, woe unto him, in that day wherein the beloved will attain joy by the surrounding Kingdom of thy Lord, the Precious, the Beneficent!  AB05895

Before the war, numerous letters were sent to America stating explicitly that a great upheaval lay ahead, severe turmoil was approaching, the people of the world would fall into danger and painful torment, severe tests would arise, and through these trials the foundations of comfort would be shaken, while holy souls would shine like stars in the highest horizon.  AB00794

But Christ added to what was told by the prophets "that god who will come He will sit on His right hand all will be entrusted into His hands." After this came Mohammed who said "That the hour is near. I will go then the hour will come." And Mohammed also said "That Jesus will come as it was foretold by Jesus Himself and the power will be in the hands of Christ."   ABU0718

God willing, you will be assisted and confirmed in all these counsels, and you will find the doors of victory opened from every direction. And in this world assembly you will light a candle whose brilliant rays will shine upon centuries and ages, and you will render such service that its fame and renown will endure forever in both the earthly and heavenly kingdoms.  AB02806

And when thou hearest that the Lamp of Hijaz hath left the Niche of Iraq, grieve not, for therein lie mighty secrets. It will shine resplendently within another globe, as predestined by Him who is the Omnipotent, the Ancient of Days. Erelong will ye behold this Divine Youth riding upon the steed of victory. Then will the hearts of the envious be seized with trembling.   BH03471

Indeed, with such clarity was this proclaimed in great assemblies and prominent churches, and the counsel began thus: O respected audience, this great danger lies ahead. Arise with determination and nobility that this world-consuming fire may not be kindled, this tempest of tribulation may not appear, and this great earthquake may not overturn the nations of the earth.  AB00183

By God! This is the day the like of which the eyes of the unseen have not witnessed; how much less the eyes of those who have shut themselves out as by a veil. And He who shall be manifest after the thousand years will speak in My Name. And He who shall come in the time of the Mustaghath will bear witness unto Me, and proclaim that I am God, the Lord of heaven and earth.  BH03560

In most of the Tablets mention hath been made by the Most Exalted Pen of the cawing of the crows. Some were bewildered as to its meaning, while others waited to see what would come to pass. The Most High, the Most Great God hath spoken the truth: that which was foretold in all the Tablets hath come to pass, and the cawing hath been raised from the abode of the sinful one.  BH07043

The Prophets of God were informed through divine revelation that certain events would come to pass. For instance, through divine revelation they came to know that Christ would be martyred, which they in turn proclaimed. Now, did their knowledge and awareness cause the martyrdom of Christ? No: This knowledge is a sign of their perfection and not the cause of His martyrdom.   AB03274

The horizon of Persia hath been illumined with the light of the heavenly Orb. Erelong will the Daystar of the supernal realm shine so brightly as to raise that land even unto the ethereal heights and to cause it to shed its radiance over the whole earth. The imperishable glory of bygone generations shall once more be manifest in such wise as to dazzle and bewilder the eyes.  AB04281

Even though this manifest light has not yet been reflected fully in the palpable world and its virtue is as yet unknown in the visible realm erelong shall everything both high and low alike receive a portion from it and it will soon be evident that the Mystery of existence has revealed this bounty and each of the friends has become a shining luminary in the horizon of glory.  AB02600

So watch for what the witnesses of God have informed you beforehand, for when the month of Mim first rises, peace will be completed in the matter of calculation that you outwardly reckon, while inwardly it has been fulfilled, and in the inmost inward it has been fulfilled around, then the number of the name Muhammad. So watch your days and be victorious through God, your Lord  BB00456

Erelong shall that dust-heap become a rose-garden and its darkness turn into light. Erelong will that venerable land become the focal centre of divine grace and be renowned in the East and West for its greatness and majesty. It shall become the centre of divine outpourings and the source of heavenly bestowals. Its ancient glory will be restored and its gates will be flung open.  AB01603

His Holiness Moses kindled the luminous flame in the Valley of the All-Merciful and lit the light's radiance on Mount Sinai. And His Holiness David established the kingdom of existence, and His Holiness Solomon laid the foundation of endless glory. And His Holiness the Spirit perfumed the world with His Messianic breath, and His Holiness the Messenger illumined Yathrib and Batha.  AB01124

O God, Thou knowest that he has been asked in his Book about the pure soul who was slain in the land of Kufa, and about he who shall come forth from Khurasan and Taliqan, and about the rule of the noble descendant of Hasan. O God, Thou knowest that I know nothing except what Thou hast taught me, and with Thee is the knowledge of all things in a Book that erreth not nor forgetteth.   BB00100

Praise to be God, whatever was recorded fifty years ago in the Tablets and Epistles, has in these days been fully realized. Undoubtedly the standard of universal peace shall be unfurled, its legions shall conquer, its call shall be raised, its rays shall beam forth upon all lands. At present it is only the dawn of its morn, for its sun shall shine in full splendor upon all regions.  AB02291

In all His Tablets and epistles, He explicitly foretold these present events, warning that humanity was in grave danger and that a universal war was impending and inevitable, for the inflammable materials stored in the infernal arsenals of Europe would be ignited by a single spark. Among other things, He stated that the Balkans would become volcanic, and the map of Europe would change.  AB00172

And after He caused all things to recognize that the praise of aught else but Him befitteth not His holy court, and that the tribute of all save Him is unworthy of His sacred source, incomparable praise be unto Him from the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end, and matchless thanks be unto Him from the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end.  BB00005

The radiant Mehr Hushidar of the divine world was the sun of the bright sphere that gave adornment to the garden of existence. And after him Bahram will illuminate his countenance and reveal his face, and will bring the world of spirit and heart under his signet ring, and will place the crown of divine kingship of the world, and will put on his head the blessed diadem of heavenly glory.  AB05845

But when Jesus said "the Spirit of Truth shall come and teach all things," He meant that He was to come in the flesh. Let us consider the prophecies announcing the coming of God or the Blessed Perfection. The coming of the Kingdom of God is foretold in all the heavenly books and these sayings are not confined to a small number, but the books are full of them - especially Daniel and Isaiah.   ABU0650

The Balkans will remain discontented. Its restlessness will increase. The vanquished Powers will continue to agitate. They will resort to every measure that may rekindle the flame of war. Movements, newly-born and world-wide in their range, will exert their utmost effort for the advancement of their designs. The Movement of the Left will acquire great importance. Its influence will spread.   AB00197

In this new age and glorious century, when the Sun of Truth has dawned from Iran's horizon, another movement will arise in the country and people of that blessed realm, and great progress will unfold - especially since today the royal throne is adorned by the presence of a just and generous king. Through the novel grace of the Glorious Lord, it is hoped that his star will shine like the sun.  AB02714

His Holiness Baha'u'llah fifty years ago mentioned the evils of this war and said these things would happen, and that the cure is Universal Peace and the establishment of Universal Arbitration and that all nations should be included to solve these disputes. If the letters which His Holiness Baha'u'llah sent to the rulers of the world had been put into action, this war would not have occurred.  ABU0155

Study the letters of 'Abdu'l-Baha which were written in detail from the beginning of the revolution and sent to Tehran. All current events were foretold in previous times. Among these is this passage: "Until government and people blend together like honey and milk, prosperity and salvation are impossible. Iran will be laid waste and ultimately it will end in the interference of neighboring powers."  AB03672

"Ye shall surely see the lights rising in those parts, as ye have already seen them. Ye shall surely behold a Pillar of Fire extending upward to the Supreme Apex and it will call unto you with the most wonderful expression and will address you, saying: 'I am the Ancient Light! I am the Lord of the Exalted Kingdom! I am the Star shining forth unto the horizon of the hearts of the people of Oneness!'"  AB00439

Soon you will hear the beating of this drum and the melodies of this trumpet from the Supreme Horizon - Glory be to my Most Glorious Lord! At that time necks will be humbled and heads will bow down and faces will submit before the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting. The clouds will disperse and the stars will darken and the most glorious jewel of God's religion will shine upon the crown of God's Covenant.   AB05447

Regarding the Land of Ta, whatever glad-tidings have been given shall be realized later. As to the River Rhine, although that was an event which occurred in the days of Napoleon III when much blood was shed upon its banks, yet more remains to come. And as to the question of the Point between the Two Seas, that which occurred was the shattering of the throne of tyranny, but it has not yet found stability.  AB09305

Although it seems to them they have exhausted the subtle, chromatic resources of music yet they are on the threshold of the revelation of celestial, universal music, which shall revolutionize the present system and usher in a new era of musical progress. The musical consciousness of future generations will become so rarified and trained that today's masterpieces will be as dissonant noises in their ears.   ABU1217

Await thou the Day when God shall come with a sovereignty from the realm of His command, and around Him shall circle the angels of the Spirit. Then shalt thou find the people struck down, and trembling shall seize the dwellers of the heavens and earth, and all names shall be overturned and fall upon limited dust - save those who have detached themselves unto God and entered beneath the shadow of their Lord.   BH01132

A day shall come when innumerable meetings in the utmost grandeur shall be established in that city. The Cause of God shall be raised and the breath of the Holy Spirit impart eternal life. Be thou not sad. This indifference is temporary. Ere long the fires of the love of God shall raise a flame in that city, and the splendors of the Sun of Truth cast intense rays and the melody of the Kingdom shall be heard.  AB08187

The Beauty of the Pre-existent One hath promised this servant that souls would be raised up who would be signs of guidance and standards of the Concourse on High, who would become candles of unity and stars of detachment in the heaven of oneness, who would make the blind to see and the deaf to hear and the dead to live, who would withstand all who are on earth and present proofs from the Lord of the seven heavens.  AB05805

And as for the glad tidings given by various souls concerning the appearance of the Blessed Beauty and the Exalted One [the Bab], those souls were in truth among the men of the unseen realm, but outwardly they were known by different names and numerous sects, however in reality they were firm upon the straight path and the mighty course and were steadfast in the religion of God and followed the way of the pure Imams.   AB02537

'Abdu'l-Baha showed further how Baha'u'llah had exactly described in one of his books what has since been carried out in the International Council of Arbitration, describing its various functions, some of which have not yet been realized and he (Abdu'l-Baha) would describe them to us now, so that when they were fulfilled, as they would be in the near future, we might know that they had been prophesied by Baha'u'llah.   ABU0769

Erelong shall ye bear witness that the lights are streaming forth, the banners of the realm above are waving, the sweet scents of the All-Merciful are wafted abroad, the hosts of the Kingdom are marching down, the angels of heaven are rushing forward, and the Holy Spirit is breathing upon all those regions. On that day thou shalt behold the waverers, men and women alike, frustrated of their hopes and in manifest loss.  AB00872

"Surely you have read in the books of the Prophets that a day will come which is the King of Days, when the Lord of Hosts will come from heaven - a day when all the world will come under the shadow of the Divine Word, a day when the true Ruler is the Lord, a day when East and West will be connected to each other, a day when war and strife will cease and all nations will achieve peace and reconciliation with each other."  ABU2130

During my stay in America I cried out in every meeting and summoned the people to the propagation of the ideals of universal peace. I said plainly that the continent of Europe had become like unto an arsenal and its conflagration was dependent upon one spark, and that in the coming years, or within two years, all that which is recorded in the Revelation of John and the Book of Daniel would become fulfilled and come to pass.  AB00936

Soon the Sun of Reality will shine forth from the invisible realm, the Dawning-Place of the mysteries of existence, in such splendor that the sacred blood will surge forth and roses, hyacinths and tulips will spring up in the field of sacrifice. At that time will appear the descendants of the martyrs: "We desired to show favor unto those who were brought low in the land and to make them leaders and to make them inheritors."   AB05711

I hope that Simnan too will be filled with spirit and fragrance, that a soul-stirring breeze will blow and the world will be filled with musk and ambergris, that in Simnan the banner of the love of the All-Merciful will be raised high and the light of the knowledge of God will shine forth, that that city will become renowned throughout the horizons and that land will receive abundant portion from the Luminary of effulgence.   AB02237

We are on the eve of the Battle of Armageddon, referred to in the 16th chapter of Revelation, when only a spark will set aflame the whole of Europe. The social unrest in all countries, the growing religious scepticism prophesied as antecedent to the millennium, will set aflame the whole of Europe, as is prophesied in the 1st of Daniel and in the Book of John. Before 1917 kingdoms will fall and cataclysms will rock the earth.  ABU3492

I see clearly the day when monarchs and emperors and rulers will come with their yachts to the harbor of Acca and after their landing, with flower pots on their heads, while walking a foot and in the utmost state of attraction and enkindlement they will proceed slowly toward the Holy Tomb of the Blessed Perfection - there to offer at the spiritual Shrine their floral offerings and worship in the spirit of contrition and meekness...  ABU0837

His all-consuming wish was that I should reveal to him his future, for he was intent on wielding a controlling influence in Iran. Although he did not use the word "kingship," he wished to be the most influential figure in Iran. Finally one day he put the matter into words, and said: "I wish to hear my future from thy tongue: what doth it hold in store?" I told him: "We are no soothsayer: none but God hath knowledge of the unseen."   ABU0664

As for what you asked about the verse found in the Book of Daniel - "Blessed is he who waits and comes to the thousand three hundred and thirty-five days" - these are solar years, not lunar years, because by that date a century will have elapsed from the rising of the Sun of Truth, and God's teachings will be firmly established in the earth, and light will fill the east and west of the earth. On that day the believers will rejoice.   AB03835

Concern not yourself with the glory and majesty which those divines now enjoy; this glory will soon be turned into the most abject abasement. 'Vileness and poverty were stamped upon them, and they returned with wrath from God.' These divines will uproot their foundations by their own hand, even as it has been said: 'They demolish their homes with their own hands.' These divines have seen the stable, but not the end which awaits them.  ABU3703

The Lord of the Messengers and the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - hath said: "A time shall come when no one's faith shall remain secure except for those who flee from peak to peak and from stone to stone." Likewise, Isaiah the Prophet hath spoken concerning the severity of these days: "Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the Lord, and for the glory of His majesty."  BH01152

As long as this continues, Iran will remain restless and unsettled. This agitation is increasing, but the ultimate destiny of Iran is tranquility, stability, and establishment. The divine fragrances will encompass it and the teachings of God will achieve complete penetration. Pure seeds will sprout in that field through the bounty of the cloud of grace. Iran will become a paradise of contentment and find perfect peace, joy and repose.   AB02685

Know then that the two kings have united to harm Us, though We were not corrupt in the land and called them to the Kingdom of their Lord, the Most Merciful, the Compassionate. God will soon transform their peace into enmity, and the fire of war shall be kindled between them. Verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. This is of the tidings of the unseen which We reveal unto thee that thou mayest be of those who are firmly established.  BH11807

In any case, give the true friends the glad tidings of the Ancient Beauty's confirmation, for soon the hosts of the Abha Kingdom will surge forward, the legions of the Supreme Concourse will descend, "The Cause of God has come" will manifest, the lights of bounty will shine forth, the darkest night will become bright, the Most Exalted Word of God will raise high its banner, and the standard of the Covenant will wave its flag across the horizons.   AB02733

Verily, that child is born and is alive and from him will appear wondrous things that thou wilt hear of in the future. Thou shalt behold him endowed with the most perfect appearance, supreme capacity, absolute perfection, consummate power and unsurpassed might. His face will shine with a radiance that illumines all the horizons of the world; therefore forget this not as long as thou dost live inasmuch as ages and centuries will bear traces of him.  AB10248

Erelong will thy Lord enable thee to attain such a state of bliss as will be the envy of the queens of the world throughout the ages, inasmuch as the love of God is a glorious crown upon thy head, the brilliant jewels of which shall shine forth upon all lands. Its lustre, radiance and effulgence shall appear in future centuries when the signs of God will be spread abroad and the Word of God will encompass the hearts of all the peoples of the earth.   AB05887

Let this century be the sun of previous centuries, the effulgences of which shall last forever, so that in times to come they shall glorify the twentieth century, saying the twentieth century was the century of lights, the twentieth century was the century of life, the twentieth century was the century of international peace, the twentieth century was the century of divine bestowals, and the twentieth century has left traces which shall last forever.  ABU0186

Every people awaits the dawning of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of hope, every sect watches for the appearance of brilliant lights from a most luminous dayspring, and every people is promised the manifestation of the Lord of existence - the One promised to the Jews, the One awaited by the people of the Gospel through the grace of the Loving Lord, the One whose appearance in the visible realm was foretold in the tongue of the Praised One Muhammad   AB03561

it is certain that in that land the light of the Manifest Light will appear and it will become the gathering place of the believers...there is no doubt that the region of Nur will become illumined and the outpourings of the Forgiving Lord will encompass it. The rocky terrain of Taker will become a flower garden and rose garden. From Mount Urang the melody of glorification and sanctification will reach the Supreme Concourse. This is decreed and ordained.  AB04662

Before long your brethren will come to Persia from Europe and America. They will organize new industries; found the traces of civilization, various factories, the spread of commerce, increase of agriculture, and the universalization of learning. As soon as security and tranquility are reached to the limit of perfection by the endeavors of the government, they will come, and will make the territory of Persia the envy of the world and of the other provinces.  AB09117

In the days of the former Manifestations of God no addresses were given for the kings and no clear warnings were given. If you read the whole of the Gospel you will be unable to find a single warning to a crowned head. No prophetic statements were made. No prophecies of the future were given except in a general way, as, for example, the prophecies you will find in Isaiah concerning the destruction of Babylon and the abomination of desolation in Jerusalem.   ABU0247

Surely you have learned of the European newspapers. This servant proclaimed in all gatherings, assemblies, temples and churches, crying out: "O attendees! O listeners! The continent of Europe is like hell, filled with inflammable materials underground, having become nothing but arsenals and ammunition depots. It depends on but a single spark, and immediately the flames will reach to the heights of heaven and the fire of war will encompass all horizons..."   AB00161

Likewise convey my greetings to his honor N.S. and say that this is a day wherein the breaths of steadfastness and certitude must waft from pure hearts, for these are the days about which they have foretold that soon a pack of wolves will emerge from the thickets of hypocrisy. They have also foretold that Satan will appear in different forms in every land - to some in the form of written sheets, to some in the form of messengers, and to some in the form of letters.   BH00357

It does not say it is in the earth, but there is a power which is very strong which will become apparent in future, such as the power of dynamite. That is what he said and it has come to pass. For instance, he said, 'There will be discovered a thing which is poisonous. Whenever it is discovered, if it reaches the nostrils of persons it will kill them. This became apparent in the late war. The Blessed Perfection said this fifty years ago, but now it has come to pass.  ABU0379

Know with certainty that it must come to pass, and its signs which are inevitable and irrevocable, as revealed in the tradition, are the Yamani and the Sufyani and the Call and the slaying of the Pure Soul and the sinking of the earth at Bayda and the red death which is the sword and the white death which is the plague and the lunar eclipses on the appointed days and the solar eclipses on the fifteenth, the like of which has not occurred since Adam descended to earth.   BB00045

Soon shalt thou find thyself in manifest loss. Thou didst conspire with the Persian Ambassador against Me, though I had come to you from the Source of majesty and grandeur with a Cause that hath solaced the eyes of those near unto God. By what thou hast done its flame hath been intensified and its burning increased. Soon will it encompass the earth and all that dwell therein. Thus hath the matter been decreed, and none can withstand His judgment in all the heavens and earth.  BH00008

They want a promised one who, with shaft and spear and a sharp sword, would create a flood from the blood of the downtrodden. Who, day and night, would busy himself with severing the necks of people (and cutting necks) and adorning towers with severed heads. One who would be the king of death and plight of souls shedding blood and causing mischief. One who would destroy human foundation, and throw to the wind cities and villages. One who makes children orphans, and women, widows.   AB01675

It is the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit that causes words such as these to stream from the tongue of poets, the significance of which they themselves are oftentimes unable to apprehend. The following verse is also divinely inspired: 'Shiraz will be thrown into a tumult; a Youth of sugar-tongue will appear. I fear lest the breath of His mouth should agitate and upset Baghdad.' The mystery enshrined within this verse is now concealed; it will be revealed in the year after Hin.  BBU0011

During the night the great City will be lighted by electricity. The whole of harbor from Acca to Haifa will be one path of illumination. Powerful searchlights will be placed on both sides of Mount Carmel to guide the oncoming steamers. Mount Carmel itself, from top to bottom will be submerged in a sea of lights. A person standing on the summit of Mount Carmel and the passengers on the steamers coming toward it will look upon the most sublime and majestic spectacle of the whole world!   ABU1109

"The Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah has repeatedly prophesied that upheavals and wars will afflict and winnow mankind which is hard of hearing and blind." "Has not the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah prophesied (1890) that the age of the machine, of technological materialism will conquer the Old World from America, and that the spiritual fruits of love, peace and unity will spread from the East, from the shores of the Mediterranean ('Akka) and from the Indian Ocean (Gandhi from India)?"   ABU0529

Although during Our travels through the countries of Europe and America, We raised Our voice in all churches, gatherings and assemblies, warning: "O respected people! Open your ears, for a great danger lieth ahead and a severe calamity shall soon appear. The whole region of Europe hath become an arsenal and powder magazine, with inflammable materials stored and concealed, awaiting but a single spark to instantly send flames reaching to the heavens, and from one spark be utterly overturned."  AB00177

You are not a protector of your own distressed and oppressed people. You are devoted to your own interests; and this pride of yours, which is supported by your commands, must be overthrown. Because of this arrogance of yours, therefore, in a short time God will destroy your sovereignty. France will fall away from you, and will be vanquished by a great conquest. [On] the banks of its rivers will be places of lamentation and mourning. The women of France will weep and bemoan the loss of their sons.   ABU0198

The second Dispensation referred to in this prophecy is the one inaugurated by the Bab Himself, which began in the year 1260 A.H. and was brought to a close in the year 1280 A.H. As to the third Dispensation -- the Revelation proclaimed by Baha'u'llah -- inasmuch as the Sun of Truth when attaining that station shineth in the plenitude of its meridian splendor its duration hath been fixed for a period of one whole month, which is the maximum time taken by the sun to pass through a sign of the Zodiac.  AB01330

And yet, in the epistles of Baha'u'llah, this momentous event was explicitly foretold forty years before it occurred. He addressed all the kings of the world and all peoples, telling them to prevent this flood, but none accepted. 'Abdu'l-Baha also repeatedly cried out in America and Europe: "O wise ones! The continent of Europe has become an arsenal. Below its surface are all manner of explosive materials. Soon it will be ignited by a single spark. Strive that you may be able to extinguish this fire."   AB01063

And in the traditions, in the eleventh chapter of the Revelation of John, the Messenger of God states: And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True (the faithful and true one being His name and title), and in righteousness He doth judge and make war. And He was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and His name is called The Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed Him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.  AB00038


Consider how I now behold the whole of this mountain basking in brilliant lights and the Haifa harbor as the anchor point of thousands of steam ships. I see the monarchs of earth, having removed their crowns, reverently, submissively and humbly, with tears flowing, carrying baskets of colorful flowers on their heads, approaching the Shrines of Baha'u'llah and the Bab. Likewise verily I see and behold the future effulgence of hospitals, schools and sanatoriums and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar established on this mountain.  ABU1913

certain persons shall in this divine dispensation produce heavenly children and such children shall promulgate the teachings of the Beauty of ABHA and serve His great Cause. Through a heavenly power and spiritual confirmation they shall be enabled to promote the Word of God and to diffuse the fragrances of God. These children are neither Oriental nor Occidental, neither Asiatic nor American, neither European nor African, but they are of the Kingdom; their native home is heaven and their resort is the Kingdom of ABHA  AB00908

The mention of two great kings appeared in the Tablets with utmost clarity concerning what would befall them, to such extent that some of the assured souls, upon hearing that kingdom would be taken from them and their dominion, sovereignty, glory, and power would be lost, were observed in utter amazement. For they had not imagined that a kingdom like that of Paris would be lost from its king's grasp, and another king would pass in such abasement, and the lamentations of trees and stones would rise from the mountains.  BH01133

In letters written previously, all subsequent events were embedded and included therein, and it was clear to people of insight that such things would happen. At the time of the ascendancy of the clergy and their return to Tehran with pomp and ceremony and illuminations, it was written that endless humiliation would follow this glory, and sighs and lamentations would reach to the heavens. In a letter written to Rasht it was explicitly and clearly mentioned, and likewise in a letter written to Tehran - this is what came to pass.  AB11683

Read the prophecies of Isaiah and Hezekiah concerning the return of the Jews to Jerusalem in the last days. Also that the water of the Nile would come to Jerusalem in the last days. When the British came they brought the water of the Nile in pipes to Palestine, and we drank that water here. The philosophers were always astonished at that prophecy saying that this was one of the exaggerations of the Bible; that this was impossible, the water could not cross the desert and how could that water be brought from the Nile to Palestine.  ABU0539

Yes, since they have disobeyed the blessed instructions [of Baha'u'llah]. Only a few countries have representatives in the League of Nations, whereas the representatives must be appointed and ratified by the nation, the government, the monarch and the Senate. They do not even consult. On the other hand, some governments are deprived of membership, and this has precipitated their fury and prompted their feeling of revenge. Governments have secret alliances with each other of which no one is aware, but these schemes will reach nowhere.  ABU3656

KNOW THOU that by this decree did the Sheikh (may God's mercy be upon him) give tidings in his words when asked about this matter, saying: Ye shall know of it after a time. And among the signs which must needs occur and which cannot be stayed, as revealed in the tradition, are the Yamani and the Sufyani and the Call and the slaying of the Pure Soul and the sinking of the earth at Bayda and the red death which is the sword and the white death which is the plague and the lunar eclipse for five [days] and the solar eclipse for fifteen [days]  BB00045

O Lord! Through the Prophets in the Books and Scriptures, Thou hast foretold and given glad-tidings to Israel, promising that a day would come when the hopeless Israel would become hopeful, and those in the greatest abasement would attain eternal glory. That scattered people would find order and arrangement under the shadow of the Lord of Hosts in the Holy Land, and from distant regions they would turn towards Zion. The abased would become mighty, the poor would become wealthy, the unknown would gain fame, and those who were despised would become beloved by all.   AB01477

When I was in Europe and America, I called out in all churches and gatherings, and it was printed and published in newspapers: "O hearers! A great danger lies ahead. All of Europe is like a powder magazine waiting for a single spark. The flames of war will reach the highest heaven and Europe will be turned upside down. This Balkan war will end in universal war. The foundation of the human world will be shaken. Cities will be destroyed and villages razed to the ground. Fathers will be left without sons and sons without fathers. Mothers will weep and children will wail and lament."   AB01671

"He has prophesied all the recent happenings. He wrote to Napoleon (the Third) twice, at a time when he was in the utmost power and glory; to William also, addressing him clearly He said that 'Thou wilt fall from your station. Do not boast. Hast thou not seen what has become of Napoleon? The same will befall thee. I hear the lamentation from Berlin. Although Berlin is at present in the utmost glory, I hear her cries. I hear her crying and lamenting.' He addressed Tihran, when the Shah, Nasiri'd-Din, was in the utmost glory. He said: 'O land of Tihran, agitation will befall thee and affairs will be upset.'"   ABU0071

All that has been explicitly recorded and embedded in the Tablets of His Highness Baha'u'llah more than 50 years ago are in these days revealed and unfolded. Read those Tablets, especially the Epistle of the Temple [Suri-Haykal] and the Tablets to the Kings and Rulers of the earth! Consider ye! What greater miracle is there than this! Not a single individual could conceive that Baha'u'llah addressed on that day, Kings and Emperors whose fame had filled all the regions and who had raised themselves to the utmost height of autocracy, predicting in an unmistakable and clear tone the events and happenings of these times.   AB03155

Soon you will observe that the horizons of the world will become the unfurled banner of the Most Great Name, and the character of nations will be attracted to that honored light. The melody of sanctification in the gatherings of unity will reach the ethereal sphere, and the chanting of the verses of the Glorious Lord - its song will bring delight to the people of the Supreme Concourse. The world will become another world, and the universe will become the dawning-place of that life-giving spirit. The fame of the Glorious Lord will conquer the world, and "Glorified be my Lord, the Most Glorious!" will be raised from all horizons.'  AB04505

As for the blessed verse "Whoso layeth claim to a Cause before the completion of a full thousand years," this refers not to a relative amount but to a thousand years - that is, the well-known thousand years which is established and determined in the convention of mathematicians and verified and customary among people. The warnings regarding ?a have not yet been fulfilled, and likewise the first prophecy of Daniel is calculated from the beginning of the mission of the Prophet, which is approximately 1280 by the Hijra calendar. The second prophecy is by the Hijra calendar, meaning from the beginning of the Hijra, so 1335 has not yet come.   AB00324

At that time, 'Abdu'l-Baha wrote explicitly and without interpretation to important centers, including to the Shah's confidant and intimate, and likewise wrote confidentially to the Spiritual Assembly of Tehran, and also wrote in clear terms to other important persons - and now those documents exist in Tehran under 'Abdu'l-Baha's signature and seal - stating that the government must rise to seek justice for the martyred Aqa Siyyid Yahya and stone the oppressors of Sangsar, and punish the bloodthirsty mujtahid and give him his due recompense, so that no other mujtahid would dare such boldness in the future. And if the government takes action on these matters, well and good; otherwise God will do what He wishes and wills.  AB00113

After Me there shall be turmoil. God hath arranged matters that I may be both present and absent, lest the friends in diverse regions grow dispirited. After Me there shall come a period of quietude, then a mighty flame shall burst forth, especially if the friends of God remain firm and steadfast in the Covenant. None knoweth what shall occur after Me. I know it shall reach such a point that people shall carry earthen water jugs on their heads as they walk from the Most Exalted Spot to the Holy Shrine. Ships laden with souls shall arrive at the port. They shall even search for and seek to find a child of the friends who may have died somewhere. Akka and Haifa will become one in the future. All of it will become gardens and palaces and buildings and a place of pilgrimage for all who dwell on earth.   ABU0463

In the future, a highway will be arranged from the foot of Mount Carmel to the Most Exalted Shrine, in the utmost freshness and purity, and a garden will be built with seven terraces. From large reservoirs, rainwater from the peak of Mount Carmel will flow through iron pipes, circulating through each of these terraced gardens, watering the trees and flowers until it reaches the lower terrace. A very large Mashriqu'l-Adhkar will be built on the summit of Mount Carmel where the recitation of verses and the chanting of prayers will bring the spirits of the listeners to delight and the souls of the yearning ones to excitement. Houses for the infirm will be formed, hospitals will be established, universities will be built, schools will be founded, orphanages will be constructed, and lofty palaces and noble buildings will be raised around the Most Exalted Shrine.  ABU0288

I send you the glad tidings that the light from the Sun of Truth is already dawning on the horizon of the East. I send you the glad tidings that the heavenly powers are already set in motion. I send you the glad tidings that the powers of this world are already faltering. I send you the glad tidings that the time has now come in which the sun of prejudice and the moon of superstition will be darkened. I send you the glad tidings that the divine Spirit and the hosts of the Kingdom are at work. I send you the glad tidings that the stars of worldly honors are in the process of falling. I send you the glad tidings that the angels of heaven are sent forth over all regions. I send you the glad tidings that the fragrances of the Holy Spirit surround you. I send you the glad tidings that the morning of clarity has dawned. I send you the glad tidings that the Sun of Truth now shines.  AB12281

I have seen many places, but none has the vivifying air and the beauty of the Shrine of the Bab. Ere long this mountain will be developed. Many fine buildings will be raised upon it. The Shrine of the Bab will be constructed in the best possible way and most majestically. It will be surrounded with many gardens, displaying multitudes of flowers. Nine terraces will be constructed from the bottom of the mountain to the Shrine of the Bab, and nine more will be above it to the summit of the mountain. A boulevard will connect the seafront to the foot of the mountain, and it too will have gardens filled with flowers. Pilgrims who arrive by vessels will be able to see the dome of the Shrine of the Bab from afar. The kings of earth, bareheaded, and the queens, will walk up the boulevard of the Shrine of the Bab carrying bouquets of flowers. They will prostrate themselves, kiss that Sacred Threshold and place their crowns on that ennobled earth.  ABU2167

"The day will come when this mountain will be resplendent with light,--lights from top to bottom. On one side of it there will be a hotel, a universal hotel. Its door will be open to all the people of the world. Whoever comes will be a guest. On the other side of the mountain there will be a university in which all the higher sciences will be taught. On another part of it there will be a Mashreq'ul Azkar. On another part of it there will be a home for the incurables. In still another part there will be a home for the poor. In still another part there will be a home for orphans. All these will be administered with love. I foresee that this harbor (Haifa) will be full of vessels. And from here to the Blessed Shrine (Bahje) there will be wide avenues, on both sides of which there will be trees and gardens. On the surrounding land at Bahje similar institutions to those at Mount Carmel will be established. And from all these places the songs of praise and exaltation will be raised to the Supreme Concourse."  ABU1954

There is a story from before that is fitting to mention here: When the Manifestation was in the Land of Mystery, known as Adrianople, a special Tablet was revealed from the Supreme Pen addressed to the sovereign of Paris. In that Tablet proper etiquette was observed, and it was then sent to one of his ministers who had expressed loyalty. After some time, a petition arrived from that minister at the Most Holy Court stating that they had taken the blessed Tablet to the Foreign Minister and delivered it to the Emperor, but no response was received from him. Thereafter, another Tablet which forms part of the blessed Surih of Haykal was revealed from the heaven of God's Will, wherein news was given of his abasement, the loss of his entire kingdom, the ruin of that land, turmoil and revolution, and what you have heard. After the revelation of these blessed verses, most were observed to be in utmost bewilderment and astonishment. Indeed, someone mentioned to this servant that the sovereign of Paris was the foremost person in the world, that he ruled over all the earth, held the reins of all kings in his hands, and controlled the management of all the world's affairs - how could such a person be overcome or brought low? Even some of the loved ones were perplexed, for in no way could human minds comprehend it and were incapable of imagining it, until there came to pass exactly what was revealed in the divine verses.  BH00292

In one instance it was revealed from the Supreme Pen that the time will be recognized as the manifestation of maturity and wisdom when independent personal sovereignty remains and no one accepts its burden to bear it. This is the purport of what flowed from the Supreme Pen.  BH00292
