
We act in accordance with the Gospel. But we must also act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. They are--the oneness of the world of humanity, independent investigation of truth, abandonment of prejudice, universal peace, etc. ABU3267

refrain from prejudices, which are based on ignorance  AB12532

The Blessed Beauty removed religious and sectarian prejudice.  ABU1427

My message is the oneness of humanity and universal peace; the harmony of true science and religion; the equality of rights; the elimination of religious, racial and political prejudices; the truth of all the divine religions; the removal of religious imitations and superstitions... ABU2221

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religious prejudice, racial prejudice, national prejudice, and political prejudice are destructive to human foundations. Until mankind becomes free of these vain imaginings, the world will find no rest or tranquility.  AB00088

Dr. Allen asked: "How will the unity of mankind be established?" Abdul Baha's answer was: When you remove the causes thereof. These causes are racial, patriotic and religious bias or prejudice. This bias will be removed and when it is removed, people will live in friendliness, kindness and love which will bring forth unity. ABU3401

Fix your eyes on the Sun of Truth for his light floods the whole earth. Let the sun give you of his strength then the clouds of prejudice will not hide his light from your eyes, then will the sun be without clouds for you.  ABU2529

I pray that God may assist them in all affairs and enable them to exalt the Word of God and promote the divine teachings, so that they may become the cause of human unity and the spread of the divine breaths, until no prejudice remains between religions, denominations and races, and all may hold fast together to the cord of God, and misunderstandings between all parties may vanish, and the human world may become a mirror of the Kingdom of God upon which spiritual lights shine.  AB04957

How long, how long, these prejudices? How long this dogmatic superiority?   ABU2352

Question: "What do the Baha'is believe?"  Answer: "They believe that mankind must love mankind; that universal amity must be practiced; that dead dogmas must be thrown away. That we are at the Threshold of the era of interdependence, that we must forget prejudices and that Universal Love must become the dominant note of the music of the 20th century."  ABU3229

may extinguish the fire of religious, racial, political and national prejudice   AB03610

are free from the ignorant prejudices that are ingrained in nations and peoples   AB03130

It has always been the practice of the heedless to hold back the sincere ones from the Cause of God. As for a trap, praise be to God that we have been trapped happily for sixty years and we have no desire to escape. It is a trap that frees people from the shackles of prejudice and superstitions and delivers them from the prison of self and desire. It makes them the captives of the love of God and of service to the Cause of the oneness of humanity. ABU2861

They hold aloof from one another merely because of unfounded prejudices and dogmas.   ABU1796

destroy the religious, national and social prejudices from the individuals of humanity  AB09104

the dispellers of the clouds of religious, national, patriotic and political prejudices   ABU1561

religious fanaticism, sectarian bias, racial prejudice and political prejudice may be removed  AB11086

Strive that religion may be cleansed from ignorant prejudices. Strive that bias may be removed  ABU1561

We must abandon all forms of prejudices - religious, racial, sectarian, patriotic and nationalistic.   ABU2098

Although they are prejudiced and constantly teach prayers to the children, this is due to ignorance.   ABU2041

The minds of men must become purified from these foolish ideas [about ritual purity between religions].  ABU1045

They abrogate and nullify religious, racial, political, patriotic and economic prejudices and the like.   AB02574

that the world of humanity may be illumined and the darkness of prejudice and ignorance may be dispelled  ABU2710

The divine power alone is potent enough to triumph over these religious, racial and patriotic prejudices.   ABU2416

"the foundation of religious, racial, gender, political and even national prejudices to be entirely demolished"  AB00369

conflict and warfare may be abolished, and patriotic, racial, religious and political prejudices become unknown  AB04999

that you may help to make the darkness of superstition and prejudice disappear and unite all creeds and all nations  ABU1590

"Hatred is not so much the cause of separation now as it used to be; the cause of disunion now is mostly prejudice."  ABU1638

so that these prejudices - religious, sectarian, racial, political, economic and even patriotic - may be eliminated from among men   AB02976

I hope they will be free from religious prejudices, racial prejudices, natural prejudices, economic prejudices and political prejudices  AB12211

"We must not allow our love for any one religion or any one personality to so blind our eyes that we become fettered by superstition!"   ABU0282

It freeth the souls from religious, racial and worldly prejudices and gathereth them under the shade of the one-coloured pavilion of God.  AB03459

Today all the inhabitants of the world are submerged in the darkness of dogmas and religions, sectarian, racial and political prejudices   AB04604

It is strange that man hath made colour a means of strife. Between the white and the black there is the utmost estrangement and discord.   AB02243

differences that arise from oppression and transgression, and from prejudice and ignorance, are eliminated through good education and wisdom   ABU2988

Among them is the abandonment of religious prejudices, sectarian prejudices, racial prejudices, patriotic prejudices and political prejudices.  AB01534

"that no religious fanaticism, racial or patriotic bias shall exist, for all are the creatures of God, and all are the signs of the Power of God."  ABU0803

Take prejudice how it grows. First a few people say something hateful about a person and generally there is a fragment of truth in what they say. The story grows, is spread, the circle widens, discussions are indulged in inharmony, schism takes place - what a waste of precious time that could and should be used for constructive work.  ABU3199

If we harbor prejudice, it will be the cause of deprivation and ignorance. The strife between religions, nations and races arises from misunderstanding.   ABU0149

your church is free and unlike other churches does not have prejudice. In Europe I saw pure prejudice, but in your church I spoke and all were delighted   ABU1246

During the time I was in America, I strove mightily that great affection and unity be established between white and black. Human beings, like doves that are white and black and yellow and ruby-colored, should associate with one another in perfect harmony and intimacy, and I hope it will be so. Observe that birds make no distinction between colors and difference of hue does not prevent affection and love. Similarly other animals give no importance to color, rather they consider the species as important. Despite this, how can man, who is the lord of all creation, occupy himself with unimportant matters and let differences of color cause aversion and enmity? Therefore strive that intense love may be produced between black and white. These differences of color are in truth an adornment. If all flowers in a garden were of one color, what fragrance would it have? But if you see a garden where flowers of different colors have bloomed, it appears supremely delicate and beautiful to behold. Likewise if the human world were of one color what distinction would it possess? But differences of color are the cause of the manifestation of the power of the All-Merciful. AB02583

The darkness of contention, strife and warfare between the religions, the nations and peoples has beclouded the horizon of Reality and hidden the heaven of Truth  AB11235

Praise be to God that in the Baha'i Cause there are no ignorant prejudices - the Baha'i knows neither racial prejudice, political prejudice, nor religious prejudice.  AB08659

Fifth is that religious prejudice, racial prejudice, national prejudice, political prejudice destroy the foundation of humanity and cause the wrath and anger of God   AB01118

Tell them a Baha'i is a person who is free from all prejudices--racial prejudices, religious prejudices, political prejudices, social prejudices, economic prejudices.   ABU3501

He speaks with rational proofs and arguments about the falsity of religious prejudice, the censure of national and racial prejudice, the reproach of political prejudice   AB00966

We serve the world of morals and we consider religious prejudice, racial prejudice, political prejudice, and even patriotic prejudice as destructive to the human world.   AB04422

The Blessed Beauty has provided the means for the unification of the world of humanity and has removed religious and social conflicts. No longer is a person to be defined by such labels as Jewish or Christian. All are embraced by the effulgence of the Faith, and all dwell beneath the tabernacle of unity.  ABU3293

Racial prejudices and commercial rivalries have assumed such a monstrous aspect that the peoples of the world goaded by their superiors have taken arms against each other.   ABU1626

The wise ones among the nations gather to investigate the cause, and become aware that the cause of bloodshed is prejudices, the most severe of which is religious prejudice.  BHU0024

It is due to prejudice that homes are destroyed. It is due to prejudice that blood is shed. It is due to prejudice that the parties and nations of the world detest each other.  ABU1158

God did not make these divisions. These divisions have had their origin in man himself. Therefore, as they are against the plan and purpose of God they are false and imaginary.  ABU0052

Praise be to God, that your churches are free from prejudices. They are not so creed-bound as not to be able to breathe. Many Christian churches in Europe are yet extremely dogmatic.  ABU1353

Germany will become radiant and illumined as soon as it is freed from racial and patriotic prejudices and as soon as it lives under the shadow of the Pavilion of the unity of mankind.  AB12230

Is there anyone who will abandon prejudice and look with the eye of fairness? Nay, by My life! None shall attain thereunto save honored servants who have rent asunder the veils in the name of God  BH01262

All differences, wars, conflicts and bloodshed are caused by this prejudice. Every war you see is either caused by religious prejudice, racial prejudice, national prejudice or political prejudice.  ABU0285

The causes of disputes among different nations are always due to one of the following classes of prejudices: (a) Racial, language. (b) Theological. (c) Personal. (d) "Beliefs," customs, traditions.  ABU2075

For two thousand years this enmity and religious prejudice have continued. Blood has been shed, ordeals have been suffered. These few words will remedy the difficulty and unite two great religions.  ABU0002

fifth that religious prejudice, sectarian prejudice, racial prejudice and national prejudice destroy the foundation of humanity - all people are God's sheep and of one race and the earth is one homeland  AB07457

The basic reason for this slaughter is the division between religions - each sect considering the religion of others as barbarous and each deeming it a most sacred trust to shed the blood of the infidels.   ABU1199

Prejudices of all kinds -- whether religious, racial, patriotic or political -- are destructive of divine foundations in man. All the warfare and bloodshed in human history have been the outcome of prejudice.  ABU0024

"For the darkness of ignorance and religious prejudices and racial prejudices and ideological prejudices have encompassed the world and thrown the human world into disarray and separated mankind from one another."  AB03990

A single point of distinction exists -- that of racial color. God is not pleased with -- neither should any reasonable or intelligent man be willing to recognize -- inequality in the races because of this distinction.  ABU0627

its principles are the abandonment of racial, religious, denominational, national and political prejudices, for all these prejudices are delusions. These prejudices are bloodthirsty and destroy the edifice of humanity   AB00737

As Baha'u'llah has stated in numerous Tablets this utterance and awakened all Baha'is that they should have no religious, sectarian, racial or national prejudices, but gather beneath the banner of the unity of humankind.   AB01180

Remove from your midst all prejudices - racial, national, religious, sectarian, political, commercial, industrial and agricultural - so that you may be free from all limitations and lay the foundation for the unity of mankind.   AB00861

ye must serve the world of humanity, and deliver mankind from religious, racial, political, and national prejudices, so that all may be gathered together beneath the shelter of the one-coloured tabernacle of the unity of mankind.  AB02247

All the divisions in the world, hatred, war and bloodshed, are caused by one or other of these prejudices. The whole world must be looked upon as one single country, all the nations as one nation, all men as belonging to one race.  ABU0091

The followers of religions, nations, and races - all peoples of the world - must abandon vain prejudices and imaginary distinctions, even to the point of entering each other's temples and synagogues across all nations and peoples.   ABU1075

What does it matter if the skin of a man is black, white, yellow, pink, or green? In this respect the animals show more intelligence than man. Black sheep and white sheep, white doves and blue do not quarrel because of difference of colour.  ABU3379

Differences which are only those of blood also cause them to destroy and kill one another. Alas! that this should still be so. Let us look rather at the beauty in diversity, the beauty of harmony, and learn a lesson from the vegetable creation.  ABU0491

The obstacle to human happiness is racial or religious prejudice, the competitive struggle for existence and inhumanity toward each other. You must be free from prejudice and fanaticism, beholding no differences between the races and religions.   ABU0270

The sphere of their thoughts is very contracted, and although there are some acute thinkers and practical reformers in their midst, the mass of the community frowns on any suggestions or rules which change in the slightest degree their mode of living.  ABU2359

They harbor no prejudices--no religious prejudice, no racial prejudice, no national prejudice, no political prejudice, no linguistic prejudice--they are free from all these prejudices. They regard the earth as one homeland and all humanity as one nation.  ABU0082

The hatred between nations was such that they considered each other unclean. If a Jew entered a Muslim's house, they would make him sit on the ground considering him unclean, and if he drank from a cup, they would either break it or wash it repeatedly.  AB01148

He pronounced prejudice -- whether religious, racial, patriotic, political -- the destroyer of the body politic. He said that man must recognize the oneness of humanity, for all in origin belong to the same household, and all are servants of the same God.  ABU0186

The great causes of separation among the people are: (a) Racial. (b) Political. (c) Religious. (d) Traditional. (e) Personal. (f) Commercial prejudices. Baha'o'llah has abolished these. None can say that this is not good. Anyone who denies this is ignorant.   ABU1651

We must not entertain prejudice, for prejudice is an obstacle to realization. Inasmuch as the effulgence is one effulgence, the human realities must all become recipients of the same light, recognizing in it the compelling force that unites them in its illumination.  ABU0196

Certain religious teachers, however, think only of their creeds. They believe a holy war can conquer the world. They reason thus: "All the other religious teachers are in error and I am obliged to chastise them and show them their mistakes for their own salvation."   ABU1348

"Religious prejudices from one side, the darkness of racial fanaticism from another, political prejudices from another side, ignorant prejudices from another side, self-attachment and personal interests and motives-all these have made the horizons of the East darker than night."  ABU2255

Why should dissension exist among them? The surface of the earth is one native land, and that native land was provided for all. God has not set these boundaries and race limitations. Why should imaginary barriers which God has not originally destined be made a cause of contention?   ABU0137

Avoid the smell of ignorant prejudices, the blind enmity and hatred and the racial, patriotic and religious superstitions which are in toto inconsistent with the Divine Religion, opposed to the good-pleasure of God and conducive to the deprivation of man from the Bestowals of the Merciful.  AB02849

Baha'u'llah also taught that prejudices -- whether religious, racial, patriotic or political -- are destructive to the foundations of human development. Prejudices of any kind are the destroyers of human happiness and welfare. Until they are dispelled, the advancement of the world of humanity is not possible.  ABU0007

Baha'u'llah delivered us from all prejudices. It is prejudice that destroys the world. Every enmity, war, misunderstanding and suffering that has ever occurred in this world has been from either religious, patriotic, racial or political prejudice. Prejudice is contemptible and injurious in whatever form it may be.  ABU0319

Be wholly free from the odour of ignorant prejudice, the enmity and hatred common among the masses, and the idle fancies relating to race, nationality and religion. These are utterly contrary to the religion of God and divine good-pleasure and are the cause of humanity's deprivation from the bounties of the Merciful.  AB01437

Again from among His Teachings is that religious, racial, worldly and political fanaticisms destroy the foundation of Humanity. As long these superstitions exist, the world of Humanity although outwardly civilized yet in reality will be savagery incarnate and strife and war, dispute and wrangling will be interminable.   AB00374

Consider this: if those prejudices and vain imaginings still existed in our midst, would it have been possible for such intimate fellowship to have been fostered among the various peoples gathered here -- who belong to foreign religions and hail from distant lands -- and for us to have shown such love and kindness to one another?  ABU3680

From these wartime upheavals, a wonderful capacity has been created among people. The divine teachings are the spirit of this age, and ears are ready to hear, so that, God willing, the unity of the human world will pitch its tent at the pole of the horizons, and these religious, sectarian, racial and even national prejudices will be eliminated.  AB01042

Misinterpreting the divine commands, men have acquired prejudices and on these prejudices they have waged religious wars and caused bloodshed. Behold what is happening to-day! Men are killing their brothers, believing this to be the cause of salvation, believing that such work is approved by God, believing that those whom they kill will be sent to hell.  ABU1723

There was a colored pugilist, Jack Johnson who defeated in an athletic fight a white man. This created much resentment against the colored race. In reality we are all the servants of God. We are all his children, whether white or black. These color lines are mere superstitions. They are the phantasmal shadows of a prejudiced mind. They have no foundation.   ABU2091

Religious prejudice, racial prejudice, political prejudice and national prejudice are destructive to the world of humanity. Justice is to be praised and cherished, whether it comes from a native of the country or from a stranger. A well-wishing stranger is better than an ignorant acquaintance. The world of humanity must be wholly delivered from the delusions of prejudice.  AB12107

Today the nations of the world are on the verge of war, influenced and impelled by prejudices of ignorance and racial fanaticism. One of the forms of prejudice which afflict the world of mankind is religious bigotry and fanaticism. When this hatred burns in human hearts, it becomes the cause of revolution, destruction, abasement of humankind and deprivation of the mercy of God.   ABU0057

The chief cause is the misrepresentation of religion by the religious leaders and teachers. They teach their followers to believe that their own form of religion is the only one pleasing to God, and that followers of any other persuasion are condemned by the All-Loving Father and deprived of His Mercy and Grace. Hence arise among the peoples, disapproval, contempt, disputes and hatred.  ABU0072

Darkness brooded over the horizon of the Orient; foul clouds of ignorance hid the sky; religious prejudice prevailed. The peoples of the Orient were as though submerged in a sea of blind dogma and tradition. The votaries of the different religions hated each other; they never associated with each other in the same building. Had they done so, they would have considered themselves contaminated.  ABU2365

Wars between peoples have always, from the beginning of history until now, sprung either from religious prejudice, racial prejudice, patriotic prejudice or political prejudice - while all these prejudices are mere illusion, for religion is the foundation of fellowship and love, humanity is one species and one family, and the earth is one homeland. Therefore all these wars and bloodsheds arise entirely from prejudice.  ABU0028

At a time when the East was enveloped and thickly beset by the gloom and darkness of such prejudices, Baha'u'llah appeared like the sun upon the horizon... so that people may be freed from the bonds of ancient prejudices and harmful imitations, cleansed of religious, national, racial, political and patriotic prejudices. As long as these prejudices remain, felicity and ease will not be fully revealed in the world of man.   ABU1661

For instance, racial differences are imaginary, yet see how influential they are. Though all are human beings, some are called Slavs, some German, some Chinese, some French, some English. Now these racial differences are purely imaginary, yet how powerful their influence! While the reality is that all are one and all are human - this is truth - yet this truth has no effect. But racial differences, which are imaginary and unreal, hold sway.  ABU0359

And the breeding-ground of all these tragedies is prejudice: prejudice of race and nation, of religion, of political opinion; and the root cause of prejudice is blind imitation of the past -- imitation in religion, in racial attitudes, in national bias, in politics. So long as this aping of the past persisteth, just so long will the foundations of the social order be blown to the four winds, just so long will humanity be continually exposed to direst peril.   AB00197

And soon these prejudices and rotten traditions will pass away for these traditions and superstitions are the cause of difference and strife. They have no connection to divine religion - they are human inventions, not the foundation of the divine Manifestations. The foundation of divine religions is sanctified and free from these superstitions, especially in this luminous age when most have realized that these superstitions are fruitless and harmful to the comfort and ease of humanity.  ABU0704

Humankind is one and the human race is one, but ignorance has brought about differences and opposition. Consider how ignorant man is to be captive to these prejudices. For instance, one prejudice is racial prejudice: What kind of people are the Germans? What kind of people are the English? What race are the French? and so forth. Yet all are descendants of Adam and of one family - there is no doubt they are of one race and children of one Adam. Therefore this notion of racial differences is pure fantasy.  ABU0032

Therefore, I greatly desired to speak among them so that, God willing, the peoples of the East and West might unite with one another, and that these prejudices--religious, national, sectarian, political, and racial--might vanish from among humanity. Every form of prejudice is destructive to the edifice of humanity. When we look at history, we observe that from the beginning of the world until this day, thousands of wars and conflicts have occurred, and every bloodshed that has taken place has stemmed from prejudice.  ABU0039

Religion must remove prejudice; if it does not eliminate prejudice, it is not religion, for religion is the following of truth. God loves all creation, is at peace with all creation, is kind to all creation. We must follow God, love all creation, be kind to all. Therefore we must abandon racial, national, political and religious prejudices and investigate truth, for these prejudices cause differences among humanity. This prejudice causes blood to be shed. This prejudice causes helpless mothers to cry and wail over the death of their children. This prejudice causes fathers to become sonless. This prejudice causes the countries of the world to be laid waste. This prejudice has caused and continues to cause the world's turmoil.  ABU0031

