
After a time all the governments on earth will change. Oppression will envelop the world. And following a universal convulsion, the sun of justice will rise from the horizon of the unseen realm. BH11454


Remind the people in these days wherein the fire of sedition hath been kindled and its darkness hath encompassed the servants.   BH08532

Until now, despite severe storms and mighty waves, the Ship of the Cause has been preserved - let us see what God wills thereafter.  AB11849

The contrary winds of the world, and its colors, have provoked a cold, and deprived men's nostrils of the sweet savors of Revelation.  BH11365

A great war and commotion shall inevitably take place in the world. Things will come to such a pass that the generality of mankind will rise against the statesmen of the world and say, 'You sit in your palaces in perfect comfort; you eat and drink sumptuously; you sleep blissfully; you eat delicious food and relax in gardens with beautiful views. But for the sake of your name and worldly fame, you throw us, your subjects, into war, shed our blood and tear our bodies to pieces. But no thorn ever pricks your hands and not for a moment do you leave your rest and comfort.'  ABU1830

after the complete weakening of the Ottoman state, other powers shall intervene and establish peace, and after some time the government of the earth shall completely change, tyranny shall encompass the world, then after a universal revolution the Sun of Justice shall dawn from the horizon of the unseen  BH10673

Through Thy power Thou hast brought forth a new creation and fashioned and ordained a mighty [severe] age.  AB11573

future events in Europe are fraught with tribulations  AB04178

This peace will come about after great upheavals and events take place.  ABU3463

In the future the general character of the people will become much corrupted.  AB10738

There is suffering everywhere. The world is a huge hospital, and souls are crying in the dark. The world is a huge battlefield, and the Holy Spirit is flooding every spot; but the souls are dead or dying. The Bahais should be nurses and doctors. ABU1192

The banks of the Rhine River were stained with blood and will be again in the future.  AB01239

One of the wisdoms of this universal war is no other than the writing of these Epistles  ABU0817

Most of the friends have been seized with agitation due to the tribulation of these grievous days   BH05097

No human mind can conceive the startling changes which God has in store for His chastened children.   ABU2497

For in the future, an even more severe war will certainly occur - there is absolutely no doubt about this.   AB00563

Tremendous changes will take place in Europe. The great centralized powers will break up into smaller independent states.   ABU1171

if travel and movement in the ports of the Persian Gulf is dangerous due to sedition, corruption and control by highway robbers   AB07398

The corrupt world needed such a purification. The war was not an act of God, but rather the results of the accumulation of our own evil deeds.   ABU2686

He shall cleanse the earth from the defilement of their corruption, and shall give it for an heritage unto such of His servants as are nigh unto Him.  BH10140

There will come a period of disturbance and chaos, the prevailing state of the world is one of irreligion which must result in anarchy and confusion.   ABU1145

What has spread among people's tongues that strange calamities like earthquakes and such will prevail after this war is mere imagination with no basis   AB05171

the years of upheaval and intense anxiety, whatever they were, have passed...for through this sudden war humankind has developed an intense receptivity  AB01924

Come, they were told, let us extinguish this fire while we can, that perchance this war might be averted. But they would not listen. This is the result.  ABU0359

The day is approaching when the wrathful anger of the Almighty will have taken hold of them. He shall cleanse the earth from the defilement of their corruption  BH10747

Mention has been made of the grievous days in the Tablet of Steadfastness. The Truth has informed all in wondrous and sublime Tablets of the great tribulation   BH10570

for the most great convulsion has appeared and the greatest resurrection has arisen. In such a mighty tempest one cannot imagine a shore of rest and deliverance  AB04039

In a similar manner each one of the present overwhelming disasters contains a deep wisdom, which will become unveiled when this world-wide deluge is subsided.  ABU0621

For many years afflictions have not ceased from the earth but rather pour forth like torrential rain. If they subside in one direction, they flame forth from another.   BH03084

O ye that are bereft of understanding! A severe trial pursueth you, and will suddenly overtake you. Bestir yourselves, that haply it may pass and inflict no harm upon you.  BH02747

How many wealthy ones in these years of war became impoverished, and how many honored ones became humbled, even kings became subjects and emperors became extinct and ruined.   AB07257

Now that the world is in turmoil, let us see what will happen after this tempest; God willing, it will turn out well. We have cast both the world and ourselves into calamity.   ABU1831

The hour approaches when the most great convulsion will appear. I swear by Him Who is the Truth! It shall cause separation to afflict everyone, even those who circle around Me.   BH02504

East and West the affairs of the people are in utter confusion and the markets of the world are afflicted with lethargy. The wheels of international transactions are at a stand-still.  ABU1256

'O Banks of the River Rhine, blood shall flow in thee, because thou didst become negligent of God. Another war will come and blood will flow and there shall be lamentations in Berlin.'   ABU0402

This recent terrible war was a catastrophe for the human world. It was like a flood that flows with utmost force from mountain peaks and uproots the foundations of all cities and villages.   AB01063

God willing, all that was lost shall be regained, and the foundation of calamities shall be demolished. The world shall become another world, and the realm shall become illumined and radiant.  AB06865

There will be a general war between the European powers and Germany of course will take a prominent part. Baha'u'llah has predicted a war between Germany and France and this will be fulfilled!  ABU3286

and thou seest the people reeling from the great quaking that hath caused all the powers of the earth to tremble, and which shall be followed by a mightier convulsion, more bitter and terrible  AB09057


The affairs of men have been thrown in confusion in both the East and the West. That is the time when calamities surround them, that perchance they may become repentant. That is the last remedy.  ABU1126

These nations think they are hardening their moral and physical fibres by going to war; how inadvertent they are! They are inflicting on themselves such deep wounds which will take centuries to heal!   ABU0868

If these teachings are not promoted and followed, a devastating calamity lies ahead and all European countries are like an ammunition depot full of inflammable materials that will ignite with a single spark   AB00944

Soon shall clamor spread through cities and regions by reason of that which the hands of the misguided have wrought. This is what We foretold unto Our servants when We were in Zawra and in the Land of Mystery  BH08017

The world is in upheaval while the people remain heedless. The dust of the deeds and words of the veiled ones hath obscured the luminous morn. Today every firm and mighty foundation is shaken, and every steadfast and upright foot hath faltered, save those whom thy Lord hath willed. The world's convulsions increase daily, yet its people perceive not the cause and reason, and remain veiled from what is with God by what is with themselves. The Sun of Truth is shining, the ocean is surging, the shrill voice of the Pen is raised, the Tree is speaking, and the Nightingale is warbling - yet all that is seen are deaf ears and blind eyes. Most of what was revealed by the Supreme Pen in sacred texts and tablets hath come to pass, as thou hast witnessed, and what remaineth suspended in the heaven of God's Will shall assuredly be made manifest. Woe unto the heedless when the Great Terror comes!  BH00960

The globe is encircled with the fire of God's wrath and the nations are being swallowed by the Mollock of iniquity. The sword of retribution is drawn against every man, yet few souls are made aware and thoughtful.  ABU0159

You had written about the turmoil in that region. This upheaval was promised and mentioned in the divine Tablets, and will certainly reach its utmost intensity, but afterward there will be tranquility and stability.  AB08976

Truly I say this is the most prodigious catastrophe and the most ill-boding calamity which has ever taken place on this globe. According to a number of reports already more than two million souls are killed and wounded.  ABU0646

The first and second verses mean that an unheard of gen[eral] revolution and struggle shall occur in the world which will be a manifest calamity to all mankind. This catastrophe will bring in its train mu[ch] sufferings and trials.   ABU0805

Although the upheavals of the world are without limit or count, yet my hope is that they will come to an end and these dark clouds will disperse from the horizon of the world and the sun of peace and tranquility will shine upon all regions.  AB05196

Cities were overturned, villages were destroyed, properties were plundered, millions of souls were killed, households collapsed, millions of fathers lost their sons, millions of children became fatherless, and millions of women became destitute.   AB01063

These abominable deeds have been and will be the cause of tribulation and hardship for all on earth. For many years afflictions have not ceased from the earth, but flow like torrential rain. If they subside in one place, they flare up in another.   BH04192

It is as though the individual members of the world of humanity are in war with each other. Not the governments as it was customary in olden times but the nations in their totality are fighting each other with unexampled desperation and ferocity.   ABU1626

Soon you will observe that the ignorance of the heedless ones has become the cause of remorse, and the blindness of the ignorant ones the cause of misfortune, and from every direction will rise the cry "Oh, woe unto us for what we neglected towards God!"   AB02986

Nearly twenty million souls perished, and in most regions of those parts blood flowed like rivers. Do not consider the world to be limited to one tract of land. Observe what hath befallen the servants in the vast renowned lands mentioned in the Books of God   BH01758

In this year divine tests have encompassed all. East and West are in turmoil and upheaval like leaves of a tree in the storms of trials and tribulations... Consider and note that this upheaval will not fully subside as it should until three hundred and thirty-five.  AB00983

Universal War with its stupendous complications will ere long become an actuality and afflict the blind and heedless world with its awful consequences. This I say because Europe has become an arsenal filled with explosive materials and one of these days will set it aflame.  ABU0265

Those who have provided the means for transporting arms and ammunition and the instruments of wars and massacres on earth will do so in the air. There will come to exist such instruments as to cause all the means of destruction in the past to be looked upon as children's playthings.  ABU3287

This is a day wherein swords have been drawn and the rumbling of cannons hath been raised through what the hands of the heedless have wrought. It behooveth thee and every believer to turn to the Most Exalted Horizon and to beseech God, the Lord of Names, to protect His party from the parties.  BH00263

As for the current disorder in affairs, today the masses are in utmost upheaval and turmoil. As the poet says: "There is not a thorn's point that is not red with martyrs' blood." And the Turkish poet says: "In this azure dome there is not a shield; All atoms are targets for the arrows of fate."  AB01795

O wise ones of the world! O philosophers of the West! O learned ones of the earth! A dark cloud approaches that shall envelop the horizon of humanity; a fierce tempest lurks behind, which shall shatter the ships of human life; and a mighty deluge shall soon overtake the cities and habitations of Europe.  AB00172

Events like these happen because of the connection between the parts of the universe, for every small part has connection with every great part, and what affects one affects the other or all others. On account of this connection, the actions of man have effect. Whenever a promise is broken, it causes a commotion.  ABU2116

In this day it is incumbent upon all to seek protection from God, exalted be His glory, for His loved ones and chosen ones, inasmuch as commotions and upheavals have encompassed all. Each day a fresh calamity descendeth upon the world and a new sedition ariseth, yet none hath discovered the cause and reason thereof.  BH01574

The world is pregnant with oppression; each day is born from it that which thou dost witness. The earth's agitation and the severe trials befalling it from all directions shall not be removed nor find tranquility. This is the truth in which there is no doubt. Then it shall spread to all its members and parts. Verily thy Lord is the Informed, the All-Knowing.  BH03705

Historians of each country, no doubt, will marshal the salient events of this tremendous struggle for the benefit of the reading public, but the public as a mass of men are indifferent, heedless, whimsical and forgetful. Theirs is not the royal minds of the few to grasp the general bearings of these world-shaking earthquakes.   ABU2104

The globe is encircled with a girdle of destroying conflagration. It has become like unto a wide-mouthed furnace wherein the red fire of suppressed hatred and enmity is burning and from the cavernous stacks which leap forth the flaming tongues and dark smoke of millions human sacrifices offered by tyrannous Kings and blinded emperors.  ABU0615

The Blessed Beauty has written that there will be revolutions and disturbances. There are three classes. High-or educated-- middle and low classes, this (lower) class are dominating. The common classes will dominate and that will be revolution. Irreligion will prevail and at the end the whole civilization of the world will be destroyed.  ABU1004

However, due to the war that has occurred, the people of these regions are in distress and afflicted with utmost hardship. All ears are heedless of the call of the muezzin, and hearts are empty of the knowledge and love of Truth. In brief, a great calamity hath encompassed the people. This is what the All-Merciful promised in the Tablets.   BH01161

It is the effects of these oppressions that have encompassed the world, with new calamities arriving each day. Soon will be witnessed the manifestation of all that remains of what was recorded by the Supreme Pen in God's Book - not a letter shall remain except that it will be visibly manifested in the world of creation, as indeed has occurred.  BH03705

The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by day. Its face is turned towards waywardness and unbelief. Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now would not be meet and seemly. Its perversity will long continue. And when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly appear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind to quake. Then, and only then, will the Divine Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.  BH04607

Today the world is full of strife and war and conflict, and nations are in struggle and fighting. The powers, like sharp-taloned eagles, lie in wait for battle in every land and region, and peoples like serpents each lie in ambush for others. Most humans are bestial rather than life-giving, predatory rather than noble, bloodthirsty rather than conscious   AB06837

Ye had recounted how famine and distress have seized the nation; and how fear, insecurity and dismay have spread throughout. That is true and right. I also feel infinitely saddened by the devastation of Persia and the distress of her people, and have tearfully beseeched His Holy Threshold, and have supplicated peace, tranquillity, and composure for that land.  AB02286

O attendees! The human world faces great danger ahead and severe peril. The European continent is like an arsenal and powder magazine, and beneath that entire continent are explosive materials of utmost power, therefore it depends on just one spark that will suddenly ignite and explode. Soon the European continent will be turned upside down by the fire of war.  AB00609

How many the cities wherein the exalted were reduced to naught! How numerous the children that were orphaned and the women that were bereaved! How many a time hath a mother cried out with a bitter cry, rending her garment from the raging of her heart and the flood of her tears! How oft hath a father grieved for a mother's loss, weeping from morning till night!  AB00344

The Most Great Tribulation - none can bear it: not the heavens of glory, nor the thrones of grandeur, nor the manifestations of power. Neither realities, nor essences, nor the most resplendent lights can contain it. Therein shall slip the Foot of Eternity by virtue of that which is inscribed in this hidden yet manifest Path - how much more so the feet of the world!  BH06507

In this huge tempest and violent revolution, in which all nations of the world were caught and were involved in dire calamity, cities were destroyed, people were slaughtered, properties were pillaged and taken as booty, the cries and lamentations of the helpless ones were raised from every prominent spot and the tears falling from the eyes of the orphans like a flowing torrent in all the low countries  AB02017

The turmoil and disturbance is not confined to Iran. In brief, the entire world is in disarray and all nations are in distress. Surely you have heard what is happening in Europe. Therefore, pray to God that these hardships, pains and calamities of all may be the pangs of childbirth, meaning labor pains, and that the true child which represents the comfort and ease of the world of creation may be born.   AB01390

If the races do not come to an agreement, there can be no question or doubt of bloodshed. When I was in America, I told the white and colored people that it was incumbent upon them to be united or else there would be the shedding of blood. I did not say more than this so that they might not be saddened. But, indeed, there is a greater danger than only the shedding of blood. It is the destruction of America.  ABU2309

Await ye the day wherein God shall come in the clouds of glory even as He came in truth, when the eyes of the sincere shall be gladdened and the faces of the idolaters shall be changed, when the heaven shall be cleft asunder and the mountains shall crumble. Then shall ye find the hypocrites in the abyss of wrath, and those who have recognized divine unity in the paradise of God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Trustworthy.  BH11415

We hope that hereafter eyes shall become seeing and ears hearing, and the standard of human unity shall wave at the pole of the horizons, and the pavilion of universal peace shall cast its shade upon East and West. The Blessed Tree shall grow and develop, and the counsels and admonitions of the Blessed Beauty shall spread. It is certain that after this war, these teachings shall raise their banner in every clime, and this life-giving breeze shall set the world in motion.  AB00177

Thou canst not realize what a resurrection is set up! Trade has become entirely non-existent and all the inhabitants are enlisted as soldiers. For example there are many merchants who have suffered complete ruin and to cap their misery they are compelled to enter the army and are sent to the frontier. Their wives and children are left behind without any helper, homeless and shelterless. Consider what a catastrophe is this! On every side the cries and lamentations reach to the vault of heaven!  AB05479

Miss. B.: Daniel prophesized that two-thirds of the people would be destroyed.  Abdul Baha: This is not the time for the fulfillment of this. The object is that severe things will happen. Two-thirds of the people will perish. Great things will happen. Souls will perish. In this war many places were destroyed. This is what I said. It will become more severe than this. In this war one-tenth of the earth was destroyed. One-fourth of the people of the world were destroyed. Houses were destroyed. It will be worse than this in the future, because of war and other things - war, cholera, plague, etc. ABU0379

Reflect ye, how disastrous are the consequences of war, while contrariwise when the period of peace and reconciliation is prolonged, every suckling babe attains maturity and establishes a family; devastated countries are repaired, the banner of tranquility and comfort is unfurled, wealth increases day by day, great enterprises are undertaken, every wandering and distressed person secures a shelter and every afflicted soul a remedy; and the virtues of mankind and the Bounty of God will be made resplendent.  AB01247

The friends of God must observe that in this mighty tempest and severe turmoil that has afflicted all peoples of the world with utmost trials and tribulations - millions from noble houses and honored families became targets of bullets and swords, lives were lost, mighty edifices fell, young men rolled in dust and blood while loving fathers wept and dear mothers rent their garments and innocent children became helpless orphans, villages were leveled flat, cries and laments arose from all directions, losses and damages brought down the wealthy  AB00867

In these days, both in the East and in the West, flames rise to the heavens. Millions of souls lie mingled with dust and blood on the battlefield. What wealth is plundered and pillaged! How many precious souls are subjected to the greatest abasement! How many cities have been utterly destroyed from their foundations! How many homes have been and continue to be completely obliterated! Humanity has risen in bloodthirst; all, like wolves and leopards, tear one another apart, giving not the slightest thought to what the consequence of this bloodthirst will be.  ABU0328

In any case, in these days the fire of war in East and West sends its flames to the heavens. Millions of souls on the battlefield are mingled with dust and blood. How much wealth is plundered and pillaged! Millions of precious souls are afflicted with utter abasement. How many cities have been utterly destroyed from their foundations! How many homes have been and are being completely effaced and ruined! The human world has risen in bloodthirst; all, like wolves and leopards, tear each other apart and give no thought whatsoever to what the outcome of this bloodthirst will be.  ABU0229

In these years of interruption, when the world was full of turmoil and war, and humanity was engaged in bloodshed, the flames of war reached to the heavens. Regions were set ablaze like hell itself, countries were trampled under invading armies, and the prosperity of the world was transformed into utter ruin. Until now, war was confined to land and sea, but in this age it extended to the heights of the sky and depths of the ocean. It became the great resurrection, and a supreme calamity occurred. Young children were left fatherless, and aged fathers lost their sons. Oppressed mothers wept blood, and loving sisters raised their voices in lamentation.   AB00178

Therefore, it is our duty in this radiant century to investigate the essentials of divine religion, seek the realities underlying the oneness of the world of humanity and discover the source of fellowship and agreement which will unite mankind in the heavenly bond of love. This unity is the radiance of eternity, the divine spirituality, the effulgence of God and the bounty of the Kingdom. We must investigate the divine source of these heavenly bestowals and adhere unto them steadfastly. For if we remain fettered and restricted by human inventions and dogmas, day by day the world of mankind will be degraded, day by day warfare and strife will increase and satanic forces converge toward the destruction of the human race.  ABU0188

Soon the cry of the tribes of Africa and America, the clamor of Europe and Tajik, and the lamentations of India and the Chinese nation will be raised from far and near, and all will arise with their full strength in resistance. But the horsemen of the divine field, through a confirmation from the Abha Kingdom, will clearly prove through the power of certitude, the hosts of recognition and the army of the Covenant that "their troops, all combined, will there be routed."   AB01197


Agitation among the nations and disturbance amidst the peoples is inevitable and predestined in the Day of the Appearance of the Most Great Name  AB05372

Thy letter dated December 2, 1918 was received. Although the representatives of governments have assembled in Paris to establish the foundation of universal peace and bestow comfort and tranquility upon the human world, yet misunderstanding still prevails and self-interest remains. Therefore, universal peace will not easily manifest and new difficulties will arise, for intentions are not in harmony - rather, desires are different.  AB04819

O ye who are gathered here, the entire continent of Europe has become an arsenal for arms and munitions waiting for a spark to start the blaze of war and tremble the planet earth.   AB00805

It has been some time now that the battle-cry of war has been raised and East and West have become combat zones for military valour. From every direction the wild beasts agitate violently and in every land the bloodthirsty examine the sharpness of their teeth. The world of humanity, which is the arena for displaying heavenly virtues, has become the playhouse of ravenous wolves.   AB01575

Tribulation hath encompassed the world. If perchance some good be observed therein, a great calamity is seen to follow, the cause and reason for which none among the dwellers of earth hath comprehended. The Lord of the Messengers and the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - hath said: "A time shall come when no one's faith shall remain secure except for those who flee from peak to peak and from stone to stone." Likewise, Isaiah the Prophet hath spoken concerning the severity of these days: "Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the Lord, and for the glory of His majesty." This blessed verse he hath mentioned thrice, and this is the greatest proof and mightiest evidence of the severity of these days and the greatness of God's Cause. In another passage he saith: "And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the Lord, and for the glory of His majesty." And further he saith: "To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the ragged rocks, for fear of the Lord, and for the glory of His majesty."  Were this evanescent one to undertake mentioning the references from divine books and scriptures that have been sent down from the Kingdom of Will upon the Prophets and chosen ones, it would surely result in a book larger than all existing books. In truth, these are momentous days, for the fire of sedition is ablaze in the world, and cities and lands are besieged under the might of great cannons and in upheaval. Such means have been assembled in the world that the mighty ones of the age do whatever they are capable of doing. The intoxication of pride in these fleeting days hath so seized them that they hear not the cry of the oppressed. They show no mercy to young or old. God shall requite them for what they do.  BH01152

Because of material civilization, industry has progressed and sciences and arts have burgeoned but at the same time weapons of war and bloodshed designed for the destruction of the edifice of humanity have multiplied and political problems have vastly increased. Hence, this material civilization cannot become the means of comfort and ease for all until it acquires spiritual power and the attributes of a divine civilization. Rather, the difficulties will increase and the troubles will multiply.  ABU3014

Soon will the land of Secret (Baghdad) be changed, and that which is outside it, and it shall pass out of the hands of the King, and commotions shall appear, and the voice of lamentation shall be raised, and corruption shall become manifest on all sides, and affairs shall be disrupted by reason of that which hath befallen these captives at the hands of the hosts of oppression. The established order shall be changed, and conditions shall wax so grievous that the very sands on the desolate hills will moan, and the trees on the mountain will weep, and blood will flow out of all things, and thou shalt behold the people in sore distress.  BH00292

The time as prophesied from all time is short -- very short. How is the Holy Spirit to be recognised by the world? A great mass of people all over the world who have united as brothers in sorrow, suffering and affliction, will be persecuted until their cries reach the very gates of heaven. Then Angels of Light will arise and these people will receive the Message I came to bring and have held so long, waiting for more sorrow and suffering. When these souls are awakened -- watch the results. Turkey was freed in one night; the world will also change in the same way, not from a BAHAI MOVEMENT, but from a WORLD MOVEMENT. Many of the Bahais in name will steal away disappointed, but be ye firm and never let go. ABU1192


The face of the world hath altered. The way of God and the religion of God have ceased to be of any worth in the eyes of men. BH11458

In this day the tastes of men have changed, and their power of perception hath altered. The contrary winds of the world, and its colors, have provoked a cold, and deprived men's nostrils of the sweet savors of Revelation.  BH11365

Among the nations of the world there is darkness of religions. Darkness due to hostility and animosity is intense.  ABU2078


All peoples and nations are frozen and lifeless, and all tribes and peoples are caught in despair and hopelessness.   AB02432



The whole world is sick--this is a very bad illness to cure.  ABU2075

Trust in God and think about educating humanity, sacrifice yourselves, and through good character and illumined nature make this dark world luminous. For the world is very dark and human society is like hell and the inferno. AB00755

Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead.  BH03716

The world is in turmoil and existence is in utmost hardship and endless tribulation   AB07419


Ye observe to what a degree the world is in continual turmoil and conflict, and to what a pass its nations have now come.  AB03158

I have always said that the peace proposals following the Great War were only a glimmer of the dawn and not the sunrise.   ABU1145

The world is in upheaval. The darkness of the vain imaginings of the peoples hath seized them with the grasp of a tyrannical avenger.  BH11811

The way of humankind today is oppression and tyranny, savagery and ferocity, bloodthirstiness and estrangement, corruption and injury  AB04017

'That is only the merest beginning. It is not representative of all. It palliates the disease, the disease of discord. It is no remedy.'  ABU2096


Because mankind has shut its ears to the Voice of God and has neglected His teachings, wars and tumults, unrest and misery have fallen upon them.  ABU1203


The world is seen to be in turmoil through the tyranny of the nations. Each day it is afflicted with a new ordeal and from every corner a tribulation arises.   BH01088

the fire of war has been ignited in the West and public opinion throughout the world has been aroused and all attention has turned to war. There is no news except war news  AB02578

Very dark clouds have surrounded the horizon of the world. This is why you observe that all is war and strife, conflict and bloodshed. Humanity is in endless tribulation.   AB02100

"The world has become a battlefield, thrown into chaos, with everyone ready to attack each other."   ABU0348

The weak body of the world is afflicted with a hundred thousand chronic, fatal diseases, and the ailing existence of humanity is exposed to great dangers, restless and suffering  AB06250

This world is like unto a theatre on the stage of which all kinds of dramas, plays, tragedies, comics and operas are presented and the actors are no other than humanity at large.   ABU2630

In the body of the world there exist a hundred thousand festering wounds, and in the vitals of the peoples and nations there are visible concealed wounds from soul-piercing daggers.  AB09841

The world is even as a human being who is diseased and impotent, whose eyes can see no longer, whose ears have gone deaf, all of whose powers are corroded and used up.  AB00027

today the body of the world is ill with a chronic and severe malady - a skilled physician must necessarily treat it...In former times the illness was of one kind, now it is of another kind   AB00521

Thou art clearly observing how dismal and dark has grown the world of humanity, how the gloom of nature has surrounded all things and how the light of the kingdom has been utterly concealed.   AB12153


At present the world is still very dark. From one side there threatens the darkness of ignorance; from another side black enmity is visible; from the other side we hear of war and rumors of war.  ABU1152


The face of the world is turning toward irreligiosity, and this condition shall persist thus for some time, increasing day by day until its appointed time which hath been set down in the Book of God   BH00408

The world is in turmoil, and no soul hath comprehended its cause and reason. They have prevented the true Physician from healing these ailments, while they themselves know neither the malady nor its cure.   BH00736

There is suffering everywhere. The world is a huge hospital, and souls are crying in the dark. The world is a huge battlefield, and the Holy Spirit is flooding every spot; but the souls are dead or dying.   ABU1192






This is why night and day they have no peace and are engaged in war and killing. Every day there is bloodshed and ruin, suffering and distress, preparation for a universal war and the destruction of mankind.   ABU1982

In this radiant century neither the old customs nor the old sciences, crafts, laws and regulations have remained. The old political principles are undergoing change, and a new body politic is in process of formation.  ABU0079

The inhabitants of the whole world are thrown into the melting pot of tribulations and afflictions. This adversity is so overwhelmingly huge that it has cast a spell of torpor and stupefaction over all the senses of people.  ABU0646

Consider the civilization of the West, how it has agitated and alarmed the peoples of the world. An infernal engine has been devised, and has proven so cruel a weapon of destruction that its like none has ever witnessed or heard.  ABU2063


behold how man disregards this Light. He still goes on his way of darkness, and disunity, and quarrels and fierce war are still rife. He uses material progress to gratify his lust for war, and he makes destructive implements and appliances to destroy his brother man.  ABU0419

The people of the veil remain heedless and veiled from Him. The mention of this blessed Day hath been recorded in most of the divine Books, and all were expectant; yet when the morn appeared and the breezes of God wafted, He found all wrapped in slumber, save whom God willeth.   BH01671

Successive calamities have seized the earth and its people, yet no one has attempted to understand the cause or arise to remove it. We leave mention of the world and what is therein to remember My loved ones there and give them glad tidings of God's favor, grace, mercy and kindness.  BH00807

How remarkable it is that these political foundations and public affairs, no matter how firm and solid they may appear, are still unstable and always subject to calamities. Iran and Ottoman Turkey were unstable, though outwardly they appeared established - this is why they were overturned.  ABU1264

Yea, the face of the world is turned toward irreligion. In all years, nay in all months, nay in all days, it is far from faith, knowledge and certitude, clinging to doubts and vain imaginings. And for a time it shall continue thus, even as its duration hath been revealed and recorded in God's Book.  BH01602

This year, calamities and blows of stagnation and corruption have encompassed all horizons... People are still caught in the sleep of negligence, clinging to the metaphorical and shunning reality. People are still so immersed in carnal desires that even the trumpet of Israfil would not awaken them.  AB02074

Black clouds have shrouded all this earth, and the darkness of hatred and malice, of cruelty and aggression and defilement is spreading far and wide. The people, one and all, live out their lives in a heedless stupor and the chief virtues of man are held to be his rapacity and his thirst for blood.  AB00240

The world is in turmoil. Everything has been thrown into chaos. People everywhere are ready to tear one another apart. In America and Europe, in gatherings, churches and assemblies, it was mentioned that the present situation would end very badly. Europe is like a powder magazine awaiting but a spark.  ABU0359

These woes and tribulations are the result of acts contrary to the divine exhortations and disobedience to the sacred commands of God clearly and directly revealed in the tablets of forty to fifty years ago in which these events were, in their entirety, printed and spread out and clear counsels explained.   AB00805

The horizon of the East had become very dark and illumination was entirely lost. The dust of prejudice had so encompassed all that all the peoples of the East were in the utmost hatred and enmity with each other, and were entirely deprived of human virtues and heavenly civilization, even physical civilization.  AB01419

The world is wrapped in the thick darkness of open revolt and swept by a whirlwind of hate. It is the fires of malevolence that have cast up their flames to the clouds of heaven, it is a blood-drenched flood that rolleth across the plains and down the hills, and no one on the face of the earth can find any peace.  AB00687


One is bewildered - what has happened that calamities have rained and continue to rain like showers upon the lands of Islam in these numbered years? By Thy life, O my Beloved, I know that these are deeds made manifest, revealing signs of divine wrath. I beseech and implore the Truth, exalted be His glory, that He may aid all to return.  BH06409


Thou hast witnessed and continueth to witness how each day a city among the cities of Islam falleth under the bombardment of cannons, and a faction among its factions faceth the bullets. That which hath appeared on earth hath caused the dwellers of the celestial realm to lament. Yet until now, none hath awakened or arisen to find a remedy.   BH01487

This is the Day wherein that which the All-Merciful revealed in the Furqan hath come to pass. The sky hath brought forth manifest smoke, and darkness hath enveloped most lands by reason of the thunder of the cannons of the heedless. Lo, the speckled serpent doth advance and hiss, while the snake of darkness hath sunk to the depths of hell.   BH00671

The horizons have been seized by the dark dust of ignorance. Hence the world is in upheaval, hearts are troubled, and souls are perplexed. At one time these words were heard from the Revealer of Verses, exalted be His glory: O servant! The world is in upheaval, and its upheaval shall not be stilled save through the will of thy Lord, the Almighty.  BH06131

Consider how they have tried every proposition - at times kindling the fire of independence, at times raising the banner of constitutionalism, one moment turning to the democratic party, another moment recognizing the unity party. From the beginning they eagerly pursued abrogated verses and insufficient proofs, but found no benefit and saw nothing but harm.  AB00758

In this year mankind is afflicted with terrific tests. The avenues of commerce are clogged, obstructed and closed. In a twinkling of an eye great commercial houses founded themselves in manifest loss. AB05479

The body of humanity at large today is attacked by severe sickness. One of these ailments is this: the human world at large is submerged in a sea of materialism. The power of materialism has prevailed and is in the ascendancy. Spiritual susceptibilities are lingering behind; the knowledge of God has not remained; the powers that discover the realities of phenomena are not manifest.   ABU0116

In the assemblage of the world there is a tremendous tumult, and intense agitation and distress, with cries and lamentations reaching to the zenith of heaven. There are moans and groans resounding through the highest heaven. There is anguish and affliction companion to every heart, and famine and drought prevailing in most countries of the world. There is turmoil and sedition in every region and territory.   AB06353


Consider the Law of the Apostle of God - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - as an ocean from which countless gulfs have been derived, and this hath caused the weakening of God's Law among His servants. To this day, neither kings nor subjects nor paupers have recognized the cause and reason, nor have they known how that which was lost in glory might be regained and the fallen standard might be raised again.   BH00472

When dark clouds were predominate, and when all the heavenly stars were concealed to the eye... because there the obscurities of blind imitations, of religious, sectarian, racial, political, economic and home prejudices were in ascendency. The darkness of these prejudices had dominated the Oriental world to such a degree that it has blinded all the eyes and deafened all the ears. There prevailed quarrel and strife, warfare and bloodshed.  AB00481

Most of the nations and the majority of the people are in perfect ignorance. They are trying night and day to do something to destroy the foundation of man. There are among them political fights and wars. There are conflicts and disturbances. Every day they are inventing new instruments for the destruction of human life. There are among them also religious disputes and conflicts and disputes of patriotism. You hardly find two men between whom there is real harmony and sympathy.   ABU1092


All the people of the world today are workmen of destruction or ruin. Everyone as though with an axe is striking at the root of the foundation of humanity. They hold in their hands great implements of warfare and destruction. Among the greatest is the axe of religious prejudices or sectarian bias, as well as that of racial bias; another implement of ruin is the persistent accumulation of commercial benefit or profit; another, the love of conquest of new domains, as is also the enmity, hatred and bigotry among the nations and tribes.   AB00974

All regions are in turmoil and upheaval. That which skilled builders could not construct in successive years hath been destroyed in a single hour. For years the fire of sedition hath been ablaze while the light of rest and tranquility remaineth veiled and concealed, yet its cause remaineth hidden from sight.  BH00167

The world hath been encompassed by the winds of discord and oppression, and though appearing to ascend, is in constant descent. Countless trials have become manifest and evident, all stemming from the heedlessness of the people. Strange indeed that the great ones of state and nation have not arisen to discover the cause and reason thereof. What they possess hath deluded them from what is with God, the One, the Munificent, the Bountiful, and their affairs, manifestations, appearances and ornaments have occupied them - their words and deeds bear witness to this, as doth every person of insight.  BH01396

You behold multitudes racing in the arena of profit and loss, and waves of madness manifesting from all directions. Clamor rises high, and tumult and commotion reach every conscious ear. Strife and contention reign between every rich and poor, and warfare with sword and spear and bow and arrow between every lowly and noble one. Armies from every direction stand in battle array, and implements of fire from every quarter are arranged in order. The swords of hatred flash their brilliant gleam from afar, and the arrows of animosity pierce with their lightning-swift sharpness even in the darkest night, dazzling all eyes.  AB00955

Affairs have been overturned, countries have been thrown into turmoil, and Islam has been weakened therein. Enemies have surrounded it, and it stands besieged. The fire of heedlessness hath encompassed the world, and whatsoever God, exalted be His glory, had formerly announced in the Books and Scriptures hath all become manifest and evident. The calamities and tribulations of the earth have become like ordinary food - every day they arrive. On one side calamities, on another side unjust wars, oppressive artillery, and rebellious, tyrannical rifles have encompassed the world and its people, yet none hath discovered the cause and reason thereof.  BH00124

The keen competition which is carried on by the captains of industry and finance; the discontent and social unrest of the laboring classes; the bigotry and extreme fanaticism of religionists; the heat and bitterness with which fantastic controversies are upheld between sectarians; the spirit of superiority with which some nations look upon others; the lust of conquest and the desire for the extension of territory; the social and political rivalries between nations and governments, and the hatred and enmity existing between the different races:--all these antagonistic forces clashing against each other, apparently aggravate the situation and make "confusion worse confounded."   ABU1803

Indeed, the face of the world hath been turned toward irreligion. In all years, nay in all months, nay in all days, it hath been far from faith, certitude and knowledge, and close to conjecture and vain imaginings. And for a time they shall continue thus, even as the duration thereof hath been revealed and recorded in the Book of God. But be not grieved, for the effulgences of the Sun of Truth shall absorb the excess moisture of nature and shall gather together the scattered letters. This matter is not confined to this age alone, but hath been thus from ancient times, even as a drop from the hidden drops in the divine ocean of knowledge hath been revealed in the holy Tablet of Wisdom. BH05695

The world is still in turmoil and upheaval, and the nations of the world are inwardly rivals, filled with strife and contention, and in some regions outward warfare and bloodshed prevail. The human world is sick and unconscious, and the physicians of morality are themselves in the utmost contention, having not yet discovered the cause of the illness - indeed, they are completely unaware. When you look to the truth, the physicians themselves are sicker, weaker and greedier than all others. Despite this, all the nations of the world are so heedless that they do not realize that except for the Divine Physician, in whose hands lies the constitution of the human world, none can cure these ills or provide the supreme remedy. Various diseases have so penetrated the body of the world that patient, nurse and physician are all in utter helplessness and severe distress.  AB02870
