That which you had written concerning the circulation of copies of the Tablets was most pleasing... Those Tablets, nay rather all that hath been sent to you, should be dispatched to all lands, for they will prove most beneficial. Some of the servants are aware of what hath come to pass but know not what shall come to pass, therefore such Tablets will prove beneficial. Those to whom copies are sent should make copies thereof and send them to other regions.  BH00992


Concerning the Hidden Words which thou didst mention - some were revealed at one time in a single tablet, while others were revealed at different times. Some have gathered them all together, while others remain scattered. It would be best if they were all gathered together, in the estimation of God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds.   BH00781


At the direction of the Master, he transcribed a complete set of the writings of the Bab, mostly from the handwriting of Aqa Siyyid Husayn, and all were corrected and collated. After the Ascension, a committee was formed under the leadership of Mirza Muhammad-'Ali to collect and authenticate the Sacred Tablets, but most of their writings were altered.   ABU1162

We have commanded that pages of mighty love be sent to you. You shall command that someone write on each tablet nineteen houses with nineteen houses, and in each house shall be written "Allah-u-Akbar" in the most beautiful beloved script. And when completed, bind it in two fine bindings as commanded by some of the believers.   BB00584

This servant has written a copy of it in clear script and sent it, so that any of the friends who wish may make copies from it, allowing the original Tablet to reach its recipient without defect or flaw. In any case, if copies are made, corrected, and given to some, perhaps it will bear fruit.   BH00678

Tablets from America being sent to be transcribed and printed for distribution to other provinces  AB11882

Write this letter in very fine handwriting in forty or fifty copies and send them with utmost speed to various regions.  AB12018

the existing copies must either be made to conform with it or be rewritten anew from it, this latter being preferable and more fitting.   BH10816


And the volume of the Sacred Writings of the Ancient Beauty that you have recently compiled and written and which is being illuminated - complete it quickly and send it so that it may be sent to the aforementioned library.   AB11825


O people of the Bab! Make no distinction between the Books which have issued from the Bab. Gather them all together and preserve them with the utmost care, and transcribe them in the most excellent calligraphy upon refined, separate tablets.   BB00158



Make copies of these and send them to various regions, that perchance the people may remember what was revealed therein and be among those who remember.   BH05653


I have instructed Jinab-i-Mirza 'Ali-Akbar to transcribe some of the writings of the Blessed Beauty in fine calligraphy and send them to the libraries of London and Paris.  AB12702

Eight pieces were sent, two of them practice pieces and evening exercises, and six others in clear script. Fifteen other pages were bound for safekeeping and all were dispatched.  BH00040


assist him, as long as he liveth, to transcribe Thy verses and compose Thy words  AB09768



ye are making copies of the Tablets of Abdul-Baha, spreading them all around. This service is the most great bounty.  AB08612

Write this letter in very fine handwriting in forty or fifty copies and send them with utmost speed to various regions.  AB12018

You should certainly make multiple copies of those papers and keep each copy preserved in a place so they are not lost.   AB02068

This is the Tablet wherein hath been ordained the preservation of what was and what will be, yet the people perceive not.  BH10394

Thou must exert utmost effort and striving to preserve that which hath been revealed unto thee, that it may endure for thee.  BH03542

preserve this Tablet as thou wouldst thine eye, that it may be protected from the eyes of the treacherous and the ears of the thieves   BH07960

"Thou art he who was blessed to transcribe the verses of thy Lord - a station which God chose before the appearance of the Pens among mankind."  BH02400

This is the handwriting of Jinab-i-Zayn. Jinab-i-Zayn was a scribe of the Blessed Beauty. Any Tablet that is in his handwriting is accurate and correct.   ABU3470

When I was very, very young, I found in Our house in Teheran a large voluminous book containing many prayers in Arabic revealed by the Bab and copied by Baha'u'llah.   ABU2755

Now the copy of that writing is being sent. Since its beginning was separately copied in the Book of Verses, it is now also being sent separately along with the volume.  BH01015

blessed is thy son, for he hath occupied himself with transcribing the verses of thy Lord, the Forgiving, the Generous. This is a deed that nothing on earth can equal.   BH07245

The Quran was confined to the scribes of revelation for twenty-six years; it was disseminated during the time of the Caliphs, and even then it was limited to a few copies.  AB11143

Therefore, copy the Tablets and spread them among the beloved. The meanings of those leaves are the spiritual table, the heavenly blessing and the means for the life eternal.  AB03118

while that which hath been revealed from the Supreme Pen concerning the loved ones, the chosen ones, and the sincere ones shall endure as long as His most beautiful names endure   BH08565

"However, since at all times I am occupied with transcribing divine verses and the affairs of the friends in this land, surely all will overlook this evanescent one's shortcomings."   BH01331

Since transcription involves expenses, as they must be written in fine calligraphy on high quality, durable paper and illuminated before being sent, Jinab-i-Amin will cover the costs.   AB11870

I testify that it was preserved in God's knowledge and concealed from all eyes. Then when the time came, We sent it down as a grace from Our presence and made it manifest as a mercy from Us  BH08517

As to the Messenger, upon him be My glory and loving-kindness, in recent years he hath been engaged in service, ever holding fast to the transcription of verses and the teaching of the Cause.  BH11613

Send the enclosed letter quickly and dispatch it through a trustworthy person to be delivered. The letter should be secured, for it is an important letter. Care must be taken lest it fail to arrive.  AB10693

The visible heaven may well be cleft asunder and cease to be, yet the mention that flows from the Ancient Pen shall not be seized by extinction but shall endure and persist for as long as God's names endure   BH04996

They must make a diligent effort in preserving the Book of God, for once again the correct manner of reading has been revealed - whatever is in the hands of the servants must be made to conform and agree with it.   BH10816

Regarding what was written about making a copy, if your honor makes the copy yourself, it is not necessary for His Honor the Name of Bounty to make another copy. Otherwise the Name of Bounty must make a copy of it.   BH05063

Praise be to God that, through the grace of the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - thou art enabled to transcribe the divine verses and art spending thy time in the greatest of services.  AB12349

All through His power do gather all that hath been sent down from God. God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. Say: All through His might do preserve all the verses and clear proofs that God hath revealed in the Book.  BB00004

The people of God must exert their utmost effort in protecting the divine verses, that they may be safeguarded from treacherous eyes and thieving hands. This servant has expressed this to some of the friends. God willing, they will be assisted.  BH00051

You shall command that someone write on each tablet nineteen houses with nineteen houses, and in each house shall be written "Allah-u-Akbar" in the most beautiful beloved script. And when completed, bind it in two fine bindings as commanded by some of the believers.   BB00584

You must preserve these translations, original Tablets, and other divine books and scriptures with the utmost strength and protection, for if they fall into the hands of opponents it will cause much mischief and they will rise up strongly against you in Egypt and other places.  AB08330

they have attributed the Book of Iqan, which was revealed from the heaven of grace in response to the Afnan Haji Mir Seyyed Muhammad (upon him be the glory of God and His forgiveness and mercy and bounty), to Yahya, saying it is from him, even though that heedless one was never with Us.   BH04591

previously it was written to Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin - upon him be the glory of God - to begin transcribing the verses of God, and likewise some here were also told and are engaged in transcription. However, since no designated swift-penned scribe can be found here, if it takes somewhat longer there is no harm.   BH01477

Had not the Book of God been preserved aforetime upon the leaves of trees, how would ye today be reading from gilded tablets? Therefore preserve ye all that hath been revealed in the Bayan, for this is sustenance unto all the worlds. Then preserve ye all that hath been revealed from God according to your capacity.  BB00003

In very truth, whatsoever hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen concerning him remaineth permanent and eternal, in such wise that the passage of centuries and ages shall not efface it. This mention hath ever been and shall ever be preserved in the Book of God, and its effects have appeared and shall continue to appear.   BH01862

Thou hast shown the utmost care, first in preserving it...How excellent that thou shouldst bring into being and send five adorned Tablets of His traces in beautiful handwriting with the utmost joy and fragrance, and show the utmost care in preserving the traces of God, both those from aforetime and those newly revealed   BB00528


This blessed book was revealed in Iraq and printed in India, but before comparison and collation, his honor Mirza Haydar-'Ali, upon him be the Glory of God and His favors, requested its correction from the Land of Sad. By command some have engaged in collation and God willing after correction it will be sent to that land as well.   BH05707

Certain Tablets had been written, and copies of some were inscribed in a special treatise and sent. If you can disseminate these to all lands, no task today is greater than this, yet let copies be made and sent with utmost discretion, lest it become widely known in the city and the leaders thereof, whether governors or others, become aware.   BH00553

According to His command, you must hold fast in all conditions to the cord of wisdom, and preserve whatever holy tablets and letters arrive from the Most Holy Court and from this servant. It would be regrettable were the signs of God to fall into the wrong hands. A secure place must be designated for the divine trusts - that is, the verses and words.  BH00467

It was known to your honor that it would be best to match whatever copies possible with that book, as most were again presented at the Most Holy Court. Regarding what was written about certain remaining terms whose counterparts were made to conform to the rules, and which were to be recorded and sent on a page - these should certainly be written and sent.  BH01306

Day and night he was occupied in transcribing and arranging the Sacred Tablets, and in producing calligraphic renderings of the Greatest Name. These pieces spread throughout all parts, so that in Iran and Turan, Europe and America, Asia and Africa - there is no city where some example of his penmanship is not to be found. Most of these pieces are of the Greatest Name.  AB00467

O My Name! It is incumbent upon all to preserve the divine verses. In the Land of Ta, they seized every soul along with whatever they possessed, and all was plundered, despite Our repeated written instructions and commands to exercise the utmost effort in preserving that which hath been revealed and sent down from God. Nevertheless, that which occurred is the cause of eternal regret.  BH01779

Regarding the photograph of the Exalted One's Tablet to Muhammad Shah and Nasiri'd-Din Shah's letter, please make every effort, for since there are different accounts of this matter on people's tongues, the Tablet itself and Nasiri'd-Din Shah's letter will dispel doubts. Therefore obtain as many of these photographs as you can and send them gradually, and if possible obtain and send the original Tablet.  AB01583

Two Tablets were specifically revealed for Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin - deliver them, and he should review all that was sent. Thus hath the Command been sent down from the heaven of wondrous knowledge, that perchance there might be understood what none in all the worlds hath understood. None else need see them except such as have attained a station enabling them to view them with a penetrating and radiant vision.  BH00656

After completion, inform me so that instructions may be given as to how they should be sent. Also prepare one copy of the Answer to the Objections of the Judge, so that it may be printed in Bombay. Give priority to this Answer to the Judge, but strive with utmost care for accuracy of expression and absence of errors. Compare repeatedly each page that you write, and first you must obtain a correct copy to work from.  AB12228

The people of God should do all that lieth within their power to protect and preserve the Tablets. In the Land of Ta whatever there was in the homes of the friends was taken and fell into the hands of the heedless. We have commanded all to safeguard that which hath proceeded from the Pen of the Most High.   BH00691

Some friends in London in these days had copied those erroneous Tablets with the intention of publishing them. I immediately prohibited this and wrote that they should also inform the library director that those Holy Writings, those Sacred Words - each letter of which is equal to the creation of all beings - are erroneous. Therefore it would be better to remove those erroneous Tablets and send correct Sacred Writings in the most beautiful calligraphy instead.   AB11825

This verse is the dawning-place of all good, and likewise the greatest key for the gates of grace and bounty. Were they to become aware of what hath been sent down from the heaven of mercy, and drink from the hidden Kawthar concealed within the divine words, they would occupy themselves with thanksgiving and praise to the Desired One of the world. For that which hath been revealed is everlasting and eternal, and shall forever remain preserved and immortalized in the Book under thy name.  BH01219

And concerning what was written that his honor Aqa Mirza Mahmud, upon him be the Glory of God, is engaged in transcribing the verses of God, I beseech the True One, exalted be His station, to confirm both him and this servant in this most great service under all conditions and to grant success in such wise that no obstacle may have power to prevent and no veil intervene, that we may write and speak for the sake of our Lord, despite those who were heedless and denied that for which they were created.  BH00023

God loveth that they should be preserved in vessels of crystal, then that these vessels should be preserved in the most delicate stones, in such wise that all may be able to manifest this. This is what God hath loved for those who have believed in God and His signs, if ye are able. Say: Cotton, then vessels of silk, then what ye are able of the sweetest stone, even if after days ye are able to manifest this to those who are alive, lest their hearts should be averse, and that they may rejoice therein.   BB00210

Among the important matters has been and is the preservation of divine verses. Glory be to God! Despite this point being written repeatedly and sent to various regions, still in every land they have captured pure souls who had writings with them. It is as if they have prepared the Books, Scrolls, Psalms and Tablets of Truth just to surrender them. Their preservation is obligatory and essential for all. A hundred thousand regrets that the pearls of the divine ocean of knowledge have fallen into the hands of thieves and traitors.  BH00183


That which is necessary today is that each soul should preserve whatever of the Sacred Writings they possess in a place where no one else has knowledge thereof. This year in the Land of Ta [Tehran] many divine verses fell into the hands of the oppressors. Whomsoever they seized had Writings with them, as if the Writings were kept in a designated place by the gate. In any case, many Writings were plundered. It behooveth the people of truth to preserve them and conceal them from every treacherous one, from every thief, and from every accursed hypocrite.  BH00146

God willing, may all the divine friends be illumined and gladdened by the lights of the suns of utterance and act according to that which they have been commanded in the Book. In truth, all must not be negligent in preserving the divine Tablets. As previously, when they intended to seize some friends, their writings first fell into [others'] hands. This is not permissible. They must designate a secure place for the divine verses so they remain protected from the touch of unworthy hands, although none shall touch them save the pure ones, as it has been and ever shall be.   BH00172

In the morning, while engaged in preparing tea before His presence, the Ancient Beauty proceeded to another chamber, and after my arrival and attendance He said, exalted be His bounty: "O servant, bring pen and paper." This servant is powerless to describe what he heard from the Kingdom of Utterance. I swear by the Beauty of the Desired One and the Sovereign of the unseen and the seen that in most times during revelation, joy and sorrow encompass this servant to such extent that none save God, exalted be His station, knoweth its measure--joy from hearing the wondrous and sublime melodies of God, glorified be His majesty, and sorrow from fear lest the verses be neglected and memory fail to preserve them.  BH00196

Hence, in some instances there may be errors in spelling and letters. Moreover, the scribes make many mistakes, for error and mistake have been and will be in human nature. Just as in these days four copies of the Kitab-i-Badi' have been written, and although they were compared and checked, nevertheless one day by chance one of those copies was present before His Countenance. He looked at some of it and found several instances where letters were mistaken, and likewise several places where the spelling was wrong. Afterwards He commanded that it be carefully examined and compared. It became apparent that in most pages there were mistakes and omissions. Therefore it is very necessary that they be attentive with care so that it becomes correct.  BH11663

The revealed Tablets, as commanded, have been sent separately in this servant's hand, except for one Most Holy, Most Exalted Tablet specifically for the physician. If there could be found there someone with fine handwriting to transcribe the sent Tablets, taking utmost care in comparing and checking them, this would be most beloved. Likewise, they should be preserved in a secure place, for divine verses are scattered in various regions. Therefore, in that land and every land, whatever is received therein should be gathered together - this is beloved and acceptable.  BH00014
