
Whoso turns to Him has attained unto the Day of God and His presence   BH08280

When I pray I turn My thoughts and My face to the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1052

raise them up, O my God, unto the stations of holiness in Thy presence   BH10620

Thou didst enter the precincts of the Throne by permission of thy Lord.   BH06941

This is the Day of Meeting, for God hath appeared unveiled and manifest.  BH01362

and didst attain the presence of God, the Lord of the first and the last   BH10989

that haply ye may attain unto your goal and be blessed with His presence   BH10662

Blessed is he who has found himself in My presence, attained to My favor   BH07153

Blessed art thou for having attained the presence and good-pleasure of God   BH05330

attaining the station of witnessing and meeting in the realm of immortality  AB12487

"attained the presence of God, and were honored to hear His address openly"  AB04328

The gate of the presence hath been opened before all who dwell in creation.   BH07524

It is said: "O people, you will meet God in the Flesh, you will visit him."   ABU1384

Thou art the first one to attain the divine presence in His Most Great Prison.  BH11686

to open before the faces of those who seek Thee the gates of meeting with Thee   BH10585

time after time hast been honored to attain the presence of the Lord of Eternity  BH03802

you have attained both unto the visitation of the House and the Lord of the House  BH11253

wherein Thy friend gazeth from the throne of Thy glory and the seat of Thy majesty  BH11277

Woe unto him who hath deprived himself of the presence of God in this Revelation!   BH09749

"the attainment of the divine presence in the kingdom of the unseen"   AB11641

for many years thou wert honored to attain the presence of the Beauty of the Lord   AB05747

was blessed with the honor of meeting Him, and was present at the court of holiness  AB07296

Turn to the hidden world and seek assistance and support from the presence of God.   AB04497

We bear witness that thou didst visit the Most Great Scene and didst believe in God   BH10838

"Joy to those who have attained to witnessing and meeting, and woe to the deniers."   BH08039

We have brought thee into the presence of the Throne while thou wert heedless thereof.  BH11814

Thou didst honor with Thy presence... Thus was he prevented from attaining Thy presence.   BH09558

one who turned to God and attained the presence when the Dayspring of the Cause appeared   BH07064

Thy servants who have been deprived of meeting Thee...those who have attained Thy presence   BH08842

This, verily, is a noble station. Bear thou witness unto that whereunto God hath testified   BH07819

We beseech God that He may draw thee nigh unto Him and cause thee to enter the holy presence   BH10768

and attained My presence and drunk the choice wine of My favors and the Kawthar of My bounties   BH09885

You have approached and attained the presence and heard what Moses heard from the Blessed Tree   BH04413

Then write down for me, O my God, by Thy Most Exalted Pen, the reward of attaining Thy presence   BH06995

been honored to meet Thee, and drunk the choice wine of life from the ocean of reunion with Thee  BH04678

The veil on the countenance of Baha hath been rent asunder, blessed are those who are attracted.  AB07768

Verily thou didst desire to attain Our presence, but the people prevented thee from reaching Us.   BH11426

Thou art among those souls who have attained unto His presence and reached this Most Great Cause   BH09835

To stand but once in His presence is better than sovereignty over the heavens and earth.   BH00295

We testify that thou didst seek to attain the presence before the countenance of the Wronged One   BH09046

Whoso hath known Him hath known Me and whoso hath denied Him hath denied Me from time immemorial   BH08286

O what joy for those who draw nigh unto them and hear their melody and attain to their knowledge.   BH11433

And this indeed is the meeting with the Manifestation of His Self, yet the servants remain veiled.   BB00433

O thrones of the world, rejoice ye, for the Beauty of the Ancient One hath been established upon me.  BH10491

Now become thou a seeker of His presence, that thou mayest witness Him in the Kingdom of the Unseen   AB07497

wheresoever thou turnest thy gaze, thou mayest behold the beauty and majesty of that peerless Beloved  AB10090

The gate of attainment unto His presence hath been opened before all who dwell on earth and in heaven   BH06669

give them the glad-tidings of their meeting with the Self of God Who standeth over all created things   BH02389

you have turned to the Most Exalted Horizon and have attained the Kawthar of the presence time and again.  BH10833

thou hast attained unto the presence of the Dawning-Place of His Cause and the Manifestation of His grace   BH11052

whose hearts soared with joy at meeting their Lord and with longing to behold the beauty of their Creator   AB04926

Blessed is the eye that has attained the presence of the Speaker and been honored by the traces of His Pen.   BH09214

All have been created for the meeting with God, and all have been and are allotted this most exalted station.  BH09811

thou didst arrive in Paradise and heard the call of the Most Glorious God and beheld the horizon of Revelation  BH09774

Happy is the eye that seeth, and the face that turneth towards, the Countenance of God, the Lord of all being.  BH10137

Open your eyes, O people of learning, to behold the Beauty, for verily it hath dawned from the horizon of glory   BH03826

In the presence of the Light of Lights, in the Kingdom of Mysteries, thou art accepted by the Beauty of the Lord  AB09804

O thou who gazest, gaze and thou shalt behold Me. Verily he who hath turned unto Me is of them who have seen Me.   BH09056

You have sought to attain My presence, and you are justified in this, for all have been created for this purpose.  BH04664

"He brought you to this Holy Land to visit the Blessed Tomb, and to sit down with Me in absolute love and amity."  ABU2354

All things have been created for the meeting with God, yet when He appeared, every idolator and infidel denied Him  BH02341

Thou art He Who didst hasten unto God until thou didst enter the prison and attain the presence of the Countenance   BH07974

Thou hast revealed Thyself to all things through the countenance of Thy origination and presence of Thine invention   BB00385

Thou hast attained unto the presence and hast drunk the choice wine of reunion from the hand of bounty and bestowal.   BH11100

"We bear witness that he attained the presence of God in His days and appeared before the Throne and heard His call"   BH06544

favor him to everlastingly dwell in the heavenly paradise, the precinct of meeting in the shelter of Thy great mercy!  AB07170

obtained light from the Sun of Truth and were ushered in under the shadow of the Tree of Life in the paradise of joy   AB07409

Christ is ever in the world of existence. He has never disappeared out of it.... Rest assured that Christ is present.   ABU3346

Blessed be the face that hath turned unto the Face, and joy be to him who hath advanced toward the Most Exalted Horizon   BH01793

I swear by the Sun of the dawn of inner meanings that nothing that is hidden or manifest can equal even one of those souls  BH11270

Remember when thou wert present before the Countenance and the Wronged One turned toward thee from this manifest horizon.   BH05292

With perfect certitude and assurance they have turned toward the Beloved of all possibility and become vocal in His praise.   BH07858

Praise be to God that thou didst attain unto the presence of One upon whom the glance of divine favor hath ever been focused   BH07149

He who is drawn to the verses of his Lord will, out of his longing for God, the Mighty, the Praised One, abandon all creation.  BH07075

On the Day of Meeting, on the Day of Manifestation, thou didst attain the honor of presence before Him Who was revealed on Sinai   AB05746

you attained the presence of the Beloved of the horizons and the Purpose of the essence of existence among the people of concord   AB03218

The gate of meeting hath been opened and the Dayspring of Names proclaimeth: Enter ye with illumined hearts, O people of insight!   BH08352

your father turned towards the Most Exalted Horizon and attained unto service, attainment of His presence, listening and witnessing  BH11330

Then inscribe for them from the Most Exalted Pen that which will vouchsafe unto them Thy presence and the visitation of Thy Beauty   BH07331

all people would beseech and supplicate...yearning and hoping to attain the presence of the Manifestation of the divine Revelation   BH04432

And We make mention of your mother who attained the presence and drank the choice wine of reunion from God, the Exalted, the Great.   BH11196

he who hath turned unto thee and attained unto the hearing of thy scratching and attained unto thy presence and stood before thy face  BH10953

I beseech Thee, therefore, O My God, to grant her the honour of beholding Thy Beauty, and vouchsafe unto her the gift of Thy Presence.  BH08904

Praise be to God that thou hast drunk from the ocean of attainment and achieved the presence of the Manifestation of Glory and Majesty.  BH08744

attained to that Spot round which circle the Concourse on High and the dwellers of the cities of names, and heard the call of the Tree   BH04446

I have desired the waters of Thy presence and the wine of reunion with Thee, and to enter beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy oneness   BH03066

I beseech Thee to ordain for me the reward of meeting Thee, whereof Thou didst give glad tidings through the tongues of Thy chosen ones   BH04775

He verily recordeth for whomsoever desireth the reward of attaining His presence. He is, in truth, the Ruler over whatsoever He willeth.   BH03748

How many an ascetic hath remained remote from attaining His presence, and how many hath deprived himself of drinking the wine of reunion   BH07748

O thou who art assured in God! The foundation of meeting God is belief in the divine verses...for physical nearness hath no significance.  AB11373

O people! The Day hath come and the call hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven. The Lord of Names hath come with manifest sovereignty   BH03991

Thy father and thy brother came into the presence of the Countenance on a certain night, and heard the call of God, the Lord of the worlds   BH06372

I have presented myself before the Gate and heard the Call from the Supreme Horizon and attained unto that which the near ones have attained.  BH11406

We bear witness that thou didst hear the Call from the Supreme Horizon and didst turn unto it and attain unto the presence of the Wronged One   BH04516

Behold ye the countenance of God, the Lord of all worlds! He hath appeared from the most exalted horizon after the passing away of all things.   BH08666

In the Day of the Manifestation, you have caught the lights from the Manifestor on the Mount of Sinai and beheld the splendor of the Ray of Truth.   AB05984

Through Him have shone forth the faces of those who have turned towards My luminous Countenance which gleams above all who are in earth and heaven.   BH10125

Thou didst migrate in My path until thou didst attain My presence, and didst hear My call, and wert blessed with My meeting, the Mighty, the Wondrous   BH11149

Thou art witnessed in the Most Great Scene and mentioned in the Most Holy Court of the Lord of Eternity. This is among the great bounties of thy Lord.   BH09200

At all times must man pass beyond all created things and, turning his gaze toward God, his gracious Lord, hasten to the dwelling-place of the Beloved.   BH07044

He hath written down for thee, by His Most Exalted Pen, the reward of attaining His presence, that thou mayest rejoice and be among the thankful ones.   BH06733

Whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto My Face and beheld My Beauty and drunk the choice wine of My favor and the living waters of My loving-kindness.   BH10834

Whoso turneth away from Me hath turned away from God from all eternity, and whoso gazeth upon Me hath gazed upon God, the Generous, the Forgiving.   BH02202

Blessed is he who has turned towards the Supreme Horizon, and he who has directed himself to the light of his Lord's countenance, the Lord of all humanity  BH02987

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath appeared with the truth is indeed the Sovereign of verses and their Dawning-Place   BH09420

"Hearken unto the Call from the Alif standing between the two Vav's! Verily, there is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Great."  BH08161

And all that ye have witnessed of the meeting with God - that is the manifestation of His Self. Do ye not, then, believe with certainty in the Cause of God?  BB00003

in the primary reality what is meant by meeting is the meeting with the Sun of Truth, and then symbolically with those who point to It among the names of God  BB00506

When the believers gather in a meeting and are engaged in the mention of God my heart is there, my spirit is there, although my body may be a thousand miles away   ABU0645

We bear witness that thou hast turned toward the Most Sublime Horizon and entered the Prison, and attained the presence of the Wronged One in this exalted Station.   BH10420

Though attainment to the divine presence may not be possible in this transient world, in the eternal world the spiritual state of success and prosperity is assured.  AB05577

The first Word that appeared from the Dawning-place of utterance of the Lord of Oneness was "Thou shalt not see Me," but now He saith "Behold and thou shalt see Me."  BH08020

Just as the loved ones of God, exalted be His glory, seek His presence and meeting, God too seeks to meet them. Verily He loves those who love Him, and they love Him.  BH04702

This is the Day wherein the Call hath been raised from the prison of 'Akka, and hath given the glad-tidings unto all peoples of the presence of God, the Lord of Lords.  BH02910

The Friend hath come for the sake of meeting, and this matter hath been recorded as the greatest of deeds in the divine Books, yet due to wisdom it hath been forbidden.  BH07447

They who turned with permission are they who attained the presence of God and drank from the Kawthar of reunion from the hands of the bounty of their Lord, the Generous.   BH07057

The divine Hill hath attained the presence of God and the call hath been raised from all things: The Spot hath been adorned through the advent of the Lord of all beings.   BH01341

And naught shall enrich you save the day of meeting Me, and this indeed is the meeting with the Manifestation of My Self, yet few among you perceive and comprehend this.   BB00443

Perchance I may find shelter at Thy Divine Threshold, go to the adored Sanctuary of Thy Divine Essence, walk in the way of Thy guidance and swim in the ocean of Thy Love.  AB05409

Verily he who has died from among you has been raised unto God and God is witness to this. By God! He has returned to the Primal Point in a mighty and impregnable station.  BH07300

Remember those days when you were present before His face in the Most Great Prison, when you heard the Call of God and beheld the Most Exalted Horizon with your outward eye.   BH08619

The right of attainment unto My presence has come, yet thou beholdest how from the beginning until now I have been daily afflicted in some place at the hands of the heedless.  BH03223

Verily he who hath attained unto the lights of the Countenance is among those who have attained the presence of God upon His throne - to this do honored servants bear witness.   BH08880

You heard the words and hearkened to the divine address and became intoxicated from the overflowing cup brimming with the wine of meeting, dripping with the sweetness of union.  AB05006

this Revelation hath loved and continues to love the presence of the friends, and seeketh for them the bounty of nearness and meeting, and the feast of revelation and witnessing.   BH01270

Ere long, when thou dost wing thy flight to this most exalted Horizon and attainest the presence of the divine Grandeur, thou shalt witness the bounties of the Beauty of Grandeur.  AB08193

Whoso holdeth fast unto Him hath held fast unto God, and whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto the Most Sublime Horizon, and whoso turneth away from Him hath turned away from God   BH06599

I beseech Thee to ordain for me presence before Thy throne and to enable me to stand at the door of Thy mercy, which hath been opened unto all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth.  BH06451

As for thy desire to attain His presence and meet Him - this Wronged One hath ever yearned for the companionship of His friends, but the heedless have intervened between Us and you.   BH05931

Hasten ye to the dawning-place of the countenance of your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate...the gardens of Paradise were adorned with the lights of the countenance of their Lord   BH05154

Then make me to be among those who turned unto Thee until they attained unto presence before Thy throne and were blessed with the Kawthar of Thy meeting and the Tasnim of reunion with Thee   BH06651

O thou who gazest upon the Countenance! We have raised up the Cause with a sovereignty that hath conquered the world and have revealed that which lay hidden before the faces of the nations.  BH00087

Blessed art thou for having attained unto the Kawthar of My utterance in My days and for having acknowledged that which My Tongue hath acknowledged in the kingdom of My wondrous expression.   BH11104

Some did not recognize the days of the Spirit, and some, through their own heedlessness, remained veiled from the knowledge and presence of the Beloved even after recognizing the days of God.   BH02794

Render thanks unto God that We called thee to appear before the Seat of Glory, to hear Us and to witness the Light of the Countenance of thy Lord, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Single, the Supreme   BH10536

Blessed is he who hath turned unto God and hath hearkened with both outer and inner ear to His divine call. Such souls are the people of the Most Great Vista and the partakers of the Most Pure Wine   BH01115

Today the divine breeze is passing by and the Spirit of God is in motion and manifestation. All things, with utmost joy and excitement, are delighted by the appearance of Him Who conversed on Sinai.   BH08521

Whoso visiteth what hath been sent down from the direction of the Throne in this Tablet and findeth himself in doubt concerning the meeting with his Lord - he is of them that have turned away from God  BH04076

This is the Face through which all faces have turned toward the Worshipped One, and the realities of all contingent beings have proclaimed: There is none other God but He, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH03523

He is the One Who is manifest without veil or covering. That which was hidden from time immemorial hath been revealed, and that which was treasured in God's knowledge, the Lord of lords, hath appeared  BH03002

Can any one of them that love Thee behold a city and not see Thee rising resplendent above its horizon? Can any soul enter a garden and not perceive Thee seated upon the throne of Thy majesty and glory?   BH05409

And all that thou hast seen in the Qur'an concerning the meeting with God, or found in the traditional prayers about seeking the meeting, the intention is to meet the Sun of Truth on the Day of Resurrection  BB00506

All the world besought from God the meeting with the Manifestation of His Most Beautiful Names and Most Exalted Attributes, yet when the Sun of Truth shed its radiance, all turned away save whom God willed.   BH07421

O Lord! Ordain for every soul who turns toward Thee that which Thou hast ordained for those who have attained Thy presence, visited Thy Beauty, and heard Thy verses after ears were forbidden from hearing them.  BH08497

Blessed art thou, O servant, in that thou hast attained the presence of God and drunk the cup of inner meanings from the hand of utterance in this Paradise which God hath sanctified from allusions and limitations   BH05542

Although outwardly thou art wandering bewildered in the wilderness of separation and the valley of deprivation, give thanks that thou art present and visible in the hearts of the lovers of the Face of the Beloved   AB06937

In His most honored Temple He unveiled His face and lifted the veil, and with a countenance like unto the sun He became manifest in the gathering of revelation, illumining all horizons with the lights of His beauty.  AB08851

In this dream I saw the Blessed Perfection standing before a large gathering. While he was engaged in a wonderful, divine conversation with the Blessed Perfection in the new language I was so overjoyed that I awoke.  ABU1546

When the Day-Star of Baha will shine resplendent above the horizon of eternity it is incumbent upon you to present yourselves before His Throne. Beware lest ye be seated in His presence or ask questions without His leave.  BB00365

Having reached the sacred strand, the shore of the crimson seas, Bid them issue forth and attain this ethereal invisible station, A station wherein the Lord hath in the Flame of His Beauty appeared within the deathless tree   BH01026

Whosoever hath attained His presence on this Day, he is of the people of Baha in the Book of God, the Lord of the Final End. And whoso hath turned away, he is accounted among the people of error in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH09829

Their sole desire was to attain unto Thy presence, to enter the garden of Thy beauty, to arrive at the sanctuary of reunion with Thee, to prostrate themselves before the gate of Thy mercy, and to bow down before Thy countenance   BH07164

Beseech thou from God's infinite grace whatsoever thou desirest. But wert thou to heed my advice thou wouldst desire naught save entrance into the Abha Kingdom, and seek naught save the bounties of the Beauty of the All-Glorious  AB10989

Thou wert mentioned before the Wronged One and present before His face, as the Mother of the Bayan doth testify from the most exalted station. The Pen hath borne witness to thy presence before the countenance of the Ancient King.   BH03619

"God hath ever loved to meet with His friends in the outward realm, for the divine meeting is mentioned in all heavenly Books, and the true purpose of creation in its primal reality hath been the meeting with God, exalted be His glory."  BH00487

"We would not exchange meeting you for anything else." Would that you were present and saw and heard and knew, and we saw and heard and found. If only the preventing circumstances by divine decree were removed and meeting became possible.  BH04070

Thy letter hath arrived and was presented by the servant in attendance as the Lord of Destiny was walking in the Most Great Scene - this Palace which was built aforetime for the establishment of God's throne, the Almighty, the Mighty, the Loving.  BH00243

Offer a hundred thousand thanks that in the Days of God thou hast attained the honor of presence and appeared at the Divine Threshold, and wert successful in beholding the Beauty of the Most Glorious - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones.   AB04823

By God! To hear but one melody from the mouth of God is better than all that hath been treasured in the heavens and earth, and thy entry into the Spot of God is better for thee than whatsoever hath been created on earth - and God is witness unto this.   BH07301

All things speak, and behind them the Dawning-Place of Names proclaimeth between earth and heaven: "By God! The Hidden hath appeared and the Treasured One hath been revealed. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of meeting with God, the Mighty, the Wise."   BH09156

Number me, O my God, with those who are privileged to fix their gaze upon Thy Beauty and who take such delight therein that they would not exchange a single moment thereof with the sovereignty of the kingdom of heavens and earth or with the entire realm of creation.  BB00554

By the glory of Thy might, O Thou my Well-Beloved! To have sacrificed my life for the Manifestations of Thy Self, to have offered up my soul in the path of the Revealers of Thy wondrous Beauty, is to have sacrificed my spirit for Thy Spirit, my being for Thy Being, my glory for Thy glory.  BH07166

God created the world for the purpose of turning to My countenance, standing before My gate, gazing toward My horizon, and speaking My beautiful praise. Yet when the Supreme Luminary illumined the horizon of the world, the nations turned away, save whom God, the Lord of the worlds, willed.  BH11375

That thirsty fish has found its way to the sea of reunion, and that sugar-breaking parrot has attained to honey and repeated sweetness. That burning-hearted lover has attained to the radiant-faced Beloved, and that noble friend has received the portion of meeting the heart-attracting Loved One.  AB04880

O thou who art the Wanderer of Truth and upon the Absolute King and whom He caused to enter His proximity by His true utterance "Seek thou Me" and spoke concerning thee that thou hast entered His proximity when thou didst serve as was inscribed at the head of My Tablet with a mystery to this degree.   BB00361

Although the grace of attainment was not achieved in the nearest horizon, God willing, thou shalt attain in the Most Glorious Kingdom and succeed in receiving the effusions from the cloud of the station of "Then he drew nigh and came down till he was at the distance of two bows' length or even nearer."   AB07570

I swear by the Sun of Revelation that hath risen above the horizon of the prison that, at a time when sorrows had encompassed Us from all directions and trials and tribulations were pouring down like torrential rain, We summoned the peoples of the earth to the Most Exalted Horizon with all Our power and might.  BH00093

Your honored father attained the presence of the Day-Star of the horizons in Iraq. This is the greatest of all bounties - for whosoever in the Day of Manifestation attains His presence is the recipient of favors, encompassed by forgiveness and pardon, the object of grace, and sheltered in the stronghold of protection.  AB04674

Enter into the presence of God - and that is the station wherein thou openest the eye of justice, seeing neither right nor left, and with the gaze of fairness and a pure heart thou knowest the Truth by the Truth. In whatever station thou attainest unto this bounty, it is as though thou standest in the presence of God.   BH01682

Verily, the Lord of Hosts calleth thee from the absence of existence (or non-existence) and sayeth: "Come, O My maid-servant, to My Kingdom! Come, O My attracted one, unto My Great Paradise! Come, O My maid-servant, unto My Sublime Heaven! Come, O My attracted one, unto the place of My Glorious Throne."  AB09063

The Command is in His hands - He writeth for whomsoever He willeth the recompense of attaining His presence, for He is the One Who commandeth, the All-Wise. Ask thou God to ordain for thee the reward of what thou didst desire in His path, for in such days as these it behooveth no one to turn toward the precincts of the Throne.  BH06235

O how exalted, how exalted is this Beauty, the Inaccessible, the Impregnable! O how glorious, how glorious is this Glory, the Most Holy, the Forbidden, the Sublime! None can draw nigh unto Him except those who are consumed at every moment by the fire of detachment, even should He seat them in every instant upon the throne of transcendence.  BH06507

The matter which takes precedence over all things and the cause which transcends all causes hath been recorded in the Book by the Most Bountiful Pen as being the station of meeting with God. All those who have drawn nigh, the sincere ones, the pure ones and the chosen ones have longed for this most holy, most exalted and most glorious station.   BH01225

Verily when Moses drunk the wine of the Love of God and heard the voice of the Lord and was submerged in the sea of abstraction - he forgot the world and all therein and saw himself in the "Abode of Paradise" and as the "Abode of Paradise" is the station of divine transfiguration, and visitation, therefore he cried out:- "O Lord! Let me behold Thy Face."   ABU1449

By God's life! Moses heard from it "Verily, there is none other God but I, the Mighty, the All-Wise," and Abraham hastened with his heart unto it and cried, "Yea, yea, O Beloved of them that know!" And the Friend ascended and soared on the wings of understanding to the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, the station wherein he beheld My greatest signs and heard My sweetest call.   BH01616

I have known Thee inasmuch as Thou canst not be known except through Thyself, and I have praised Thee inasmuch as Thou canst not be praised except through Thyself, and I have sanctified Thee inasmuch as Thou canst not be sanctified except through Thyself, and I have become certain that there is no way for creation unto Thee except through the Manifestation of Thy revelation  BB00060

Thou didst arrive at the shore of the Most Great Ocean and didst hear the call of the Lord of Eternity, and didst enter through a door that was opened unto the faces of all who are in the heavens and the earth. Blessed art thou for having drunk, from the hands of bounty, the Kawthar of the divine encounter, and for having attained that which was recorded in the Books of the Prophets and Messengers.  BH06792

The Shiites do not believe in the "meeting with God"; but they say in the end of the time so many extraordinary events will transpire that there will remain not a single soul without believing in God. The Sunnites have this tradition: 'Ye shall behold your Lord as you see the moon or the fourteenth night of month.' They believe that the 'meeting of God' is possible, but only in the day of resurrection.  ABU0828

As for what thou didst desire regarding the visitation of thy Ancient Master, know that We have accepted from thee what thou didst intend in thy Lord's path, and We have written thy name, with the Most Exalted Pen, among those who have sought the sanctuary of God, the Supreme, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, who have attained the presence of His countenance, heard His call, and circled round His Most Great Throne.  BH10404

Give thanks to God for having enabled thee to attain the presence of thy Lord, the All-Forgiving, at His Throne, and to drink the choice wine of revelation from the cup of the utterance of the All-Merciful when the Tongue of Grandeur proclaimed: "There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Generous." Thou hast been honored to attain the presence of the Self-Subsisting when He appeared with His Name "the Wronged One" in this mighty prison.   BH01399

I beseech Thee at all times, through Thy grace and mercy, to make the best of my days the day when I shall meet Thee, and the best of my hours the hour when I shall appear before Thee, and the best of my minutes those minutes when I shall mention Thee in Thy presence. For Thou hast created me, O my God, only that I might glorify Thee and sanctify Thee and remember Thee, being certain of what Thou art, acknowledging what beseemeth the majesty of Thy holiness and the exaltation of Thy glory.  BB00011

Regarding your intention to turn towards the Most Holy Court, it was presented, and He said: "It is most evident and clear that those who drink from the cups of recognition ever seek and yearn for the presence of the All-Merciful, for in truth He is the Cause of creation, the reason for existence, the Ultimate Goal and the Most Remote Mosque. However, as the decree of wisdom has descended from the heaven of the Divine Unity, all friends must observe it and act according to its requirements."  BH01039

Know thou that the Presentation is not unto the Essence of Eternity, for nothing can reach unto It. Rather, the Presentation is the presentation unto the Tree of Truth on the Day of Resurrection, which is the presentation unto God in the Primal Reality. And verily the creation in presentation is mentioned in two limits: either it is presented with faith or it is presented without faith. If it is presented with faith, then that is in Paradise, and if it is presented without faith, God loveth not to mention it.  BB00506

The Ever-Living who dieth not, the All-Holy who passeth not away, the Self-Subsisting who changeth not, and the All-Beloved who altereth not hath ordained that all contingent beings should progress in such wise that on the Day when Him Whom God shall make manifest raises and exalts His Cause from the Most Hidden Mystery, and declares Verily I am God, there is no God but Me, all shall be drawn unto Him and shall not be veiled by other conditions, but shall be guided by manifest signs whereof all are incapable.  BB00005

By the decisive text of God, the point of adoration of the Concourse on High and the Sacred Threshold of the Divine Grandeur - may my spirit, my being, and my essence be a sacrifice for its dust - is established, and to turn to any place other than that Holy Threshold is not permitted. Beware, beware lest thou turn unto any other! And the point of adoration for this servant is that sanctified and holy Station. By My life! Verily it is My Most Remote Sanctuary, My Ultimate Paradise, My Loftiest Garden, and My Most Exalted Goal.  AB10518

And whosoever from the direction of the Gate greeteth Him in the tongue of God, without beholding equality upon the Throne, nor separation in division, nor the essence in union, hath indeed visited God his Lord in the primordial mystery. And whosoever visiteth God through His Own Self bearing witness unto His Own Self hath indeed entered the Gate of Grandeur and become a visitor of the Lord of Glory upon the dust, without knowing any limit of comparison, nor any letter of similitude, nor any name of explanation, nor any attribute of distinction.   BB00205

And what he hath sought is the encounter with His revelation in his vision and wakefulness, so inspire him, O my God, to recite that verse, for it shall suffice him in what he seeketh of Thy grace. Verily, Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Encompassing. Say: God sufficeth all things above all things, and nothing in the heavens or on the earth or between them sufficeth instead of God, thy Lord, and God hath not created anything, nor will He create it, except they who are certain of the encounter with Him Whom God shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection.  BB00043

Despite these explicit statements, clear texts, and inherited traditions, the peoples have differed on this question. Some have said that vision is impossible, citing the blessed verse: "No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision: He is above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things." Others have said that to wholly deny vision would necessitate denial of Qur'anic texts and disprove the infallibility of the Prophets, for to ask for that which is impossible is categorically impermissible for an infallible Prophet. Moses the Interlocutor--peace be upon Him--asked for vision, saying: "O my Lord! Show me Thyself that I may look upon Thee."   AB00087

It is most clear that the ever-existing and eternal Truth hath never wished to deprive His loved ones from His infinite outpourings or to withhold them from the Kawthar of His presence, which is the cause of the creation of the world. The decree of prohibition of the gaze is due to a wisdom that hath been revealed in the tablets of God, and all are commanded to act according to it, lest aught occur that might cause harm.  BH09271
How many souls have arrived at the Sanctuary of the spiritual ones and circumambulated, yet remained deprived and disappointed; and how many have arrived in spirit at every moment, visited with their hearts, and benefited in all degrees from the radiant Shrine.  AB12828
 
