Concerning what thou didst ask about the earth and what the wise have said about it: in truth these matters have not yet been fully discovered. This is the truth, and beyond it is naught but error. However, the philosophers of this age, having received a portion of the light of this Manifestation, are more knowledgeable than those who came before. They have not yet fully discovered the number of planets; soon it shall be revealed and added to the previous count.   BH00722

A strange and wonderful instrument exists in the earth, but it is concealed from minds and souls. It is an instrument which has the power to change the atmosphere of the whole earth, and its infection causes destruction.  ABU1809

It would now be fitting to prepare the means of travel to other planets!  ABU3758

This is not only the golden age but the age of Diamond. This is the Century of Lights!   ABU3503

We are laying the foundation of that Palace and ere long its turrets shall reach to the sky.  ABU1060

In this wondrous cycle the realities of things and the mysteries of creation will become manifest and evident.  AB06401

Speaking of religion and science, the two great wings with which the bird of human kind is able to soar, He said: "Scientific discoveries have increased material civilization. There is in existence a stupendous force, as yet, happily, undiscovered by man. Let us supplicate God, the Beloved, that this force be not discovered by science until spiritual civilization shall dominate the human mind. In the hands of men of lower material nature, this power would be able to destroy the whole earth."  ABU2879

Those are the letters of Abjad. There is a tradition which says that when the Gha'im appears all the civilization and sciences which have been existing before will be as one letter, but after the Promised One comes, it becomes twenty-seven. That is, so many discoveries will be made that all these (new) sciences, arts, and discoveries are twenty-seven.  ABU0379


There will come to exist such instruments as to cause all the means of destruction in the past to be looked upon as children's playthings.  ABU3287

It is certain that in this wonderful new age the development of medical science will lead to the doctors' healing their patients with foods  AB00162

If you succeed in service and servitude at the Divine Threshold as is befitting, you will observe how this world becomes illumined in a brief time.   AB01723


The time will come when meat will no longer be eaten. Medical science is only in its infancy, yet it has shown that our natural diet is that which grows out of the ground.  ABU3261

Were it possible to build a heavenly railway; were it possible to invent an aeroplane to establish communication between the various planets many marvelous discoveries would have been achieved.  ABU2615

This century is very great. Many of the mysteries of existence will become manifest. Great inventions will appear and great discoveries will be made.   ABU0071

that erelong those who are schoolchildren today will become the most erudite of all the fraternity of the wise. This is a service rendered unto God Himself, and it is one of His inescapable commandments.  AB03799

For example, today any telegraph operator is more skilled at telegraphy than the inventor of the telegraph, for the inventor could not communicate with such ease - yet the merit belongs to the forerunner.  AB02372

old ideas depart and new thoughts come; old garments be cast aside and new garments put on; ancient politics whose foundation is war be discarded and modern politics founded on peace raise the standard of victory  AB02184

materially, too, all the learned men of this age agree that the advancements in knowledge, the arts, industries and inventions of this century are equal to those of the last fifty centuries, indeed, even greater than that.  ABU2329

Fifty years ago whoever mentioned universal peace was mocked. Now praise be to God it has reached such a degree that everyone acknowledges this matter of universal peace is the spirit of this age and the light of this century.   AB00357

In this blessed Dispensation, knowledge shall make infinite progress. Therefore we hope that higher institutions will be established and schools founded with utmost order, and that knowledge in this blessed cycle will make infinite progress.  ABU2335


Observe how greatly the sphere of intellects and the sphere of thoughts have expanded, how numerous the new discoveries have become, how many magnificent institutions have appeared, how brilliantly novel industries have manifested, how widely beneficial sciences have spread.  ABU0264

The science of aviation will make great progress in the immediate future and people will travel at ease from one city to another city without any danger. It will become as popular as automobiles. Just as now every well to do person has an automobile, then they will have an aeroplane.  ABU2998

Science has made war expensive; so expensive it don't pay to fight... In modern times the science of war has reached such a stage of perfection that in twenty-four hours one-hundred-thousand could be sacrificed, great navies sent to the bottom of the sea, great cities destroyed in a few hours.  ABU0125

The happy and healthy children of a new order of public opinion are being born, the ethical laws of the world are in the process of a radical reformation and an entirely new code of statutes will be legislated for the international relations and the final consolidation of the modern and ancient nations.   ABU2497

Do you see this Garden? Do you see all these stones? All will be destroyed. But the time will come when these will be renewed, and then they will be fixed for all time. But the people will not be satisfied, but will bring marble. Even this will not satisfy them. They will bring one brick of silver and one brick of gold.  BHU0014

The rocky crags of this mountain shall be transformed into gardens of flowers and roses, and shall become a place of pilgrimage for all the peoples of the world. In the future, a form of electricity shall be discovered whereby, within the stone itself and without connection to any power plant, electric lights shall be illuminated.  ABU2847

"Today I wanted to come here and at the door I saw an airplane rising. It was a very beautiful sight. Truly it is a strange invention. It demonstrates human power, that God has given such power to man that he can fly to heights beyond the capacity of birds."  ABU0518

Through the ingenuity and inventions of man it is possible to cross the wide oceans, fly through the air and travel in submarine depths. At any moment the Orient and Occident can communicate with each other. Trains speed across the continents. The human voice has been arrested and reproduced, and now man can speak at long distances from any point.  ABU0192

The intention of His Holiness the Truthful One (Imam Sadiq), peace be upon him, is that the sciences and arts that appeared among people up until the previous dispensation were equivalent to two letters, but in the blessed dispensation of the Blessed Beauty, sciences and arts equivalent to the remaining letters - that is, many times over - will appear and emerge.   AB11731

For instance, we observe that humans can imprison electrical force in glass, confine free sound, set the atmosphere in motion through waves and communicate thereby, propel ships across deserts, transform dry land into sea, make the East intimate with the West, and join South and North in embrace. They reveal nature's hidden secrets and bring them from the realm of the invisible into the visible world.  ABU0121

The progress of civilizations to a certain degree has reached an exalted station in France specially, and in Europe generally, but from now on there will be a monumental upward march of advancement all over the United States. That country has just started on the path of progress and her future development will be just as marvelous as her activities will be manifold in all the departments of life, physical and spiritual.  BHU0013

All these recent inventions have become the cause of evil and loss. During this war all these inventions have become the cause of the destruction of mankind. For instance, the telegraph, aeroplane, railway, steamer, wireless, telephone, all of these. Our hope was that these would serve the world of humanity and that they would become the means of the progress of mankind, and the means of the reconstruction of the world. But what a great pity that they have been used for destruction.  ABU0210

The science of medicine is still in its infancy and has not yet reached maturity. But when it reaches that stage, treatments will be administered with things that are not repulsive to the senses of taste and smell, that is, through foods, fruits, and plants that have an agreeable taste and a pleasant smell. When this science reaches perfection, treatments will be administered with fragrant fruits and plants as well as with other foods, and with hot and cold waters of various temperatures.  AB00646

whatever human virtues appeared in the early centuries and were manifested in the realm of existence - of sciences, arts, inventions, discoveries, institutions, mysteries of creation and realities of beings - all of these are equivalent to two letters. However, what will appear after the manifestation of the Qa'im regarding the mysteries of the world of being, realities of things, arts and wonders, human knowledge, hidden secrets and guarded mysteries, is equivalent to twenty-five letters.   AB03186

The unseen Hand of God has now opened the portals of discovery, and reality hath emerged from behind the veils of mysteries and it is manifest even within natural philosophy. It is such that should any soul contemplate in the mysteries of divine philosophy, he will surpass Aristotle in discovering reality. The same is true for the natural sciences. In mathematics, school children can now exceed Aristotle in their comprehension of truths. Consider how great is this century, and how magnificent is this era. AB02372

Thus shall the divine foundation remove all that opposes it, and the world shall become another world, the earthly realm shall become a heavenly realm, the human world shall become the dawning-place of reality, and the rays of the Sun of the celestial realm shall shine upon it. East and West shall be illumined, South and North shall embrace one another, all religions shall seek and speak the truth, and everlasting foundations shall be laid in the world of humanity, and the edifice of the unity of the human race shall rise day by day.  AB00279

Communication is so easy that in a single moment the East can communicate with the West. A hundred days can be passed in a single day. Ships, in other Manifestations, could only sail near the shore, and if sometimes they did go far they would be missed and could not be traced. Now they cross the ocean. In the days of the Prophets, Christ and Mohammed, there were many plains and deserts on which no one had traveled, now the trains can go directly and pass over them easily, and the land and sea are so connected with each other that the globe can be traversed in one month.  ABU0838

After this war new plans, new thoughts and new sound theories are essential. Old thoughts will be good for the scrapbasket. A new table must be spread, new dishes must be cooked and new appetite must be cultivated. The seeds of new flowers must be sown, new saplings must be planted, new roads must be constructed, a new code of ethics must be discovered, new conventions for the amicable settlement of international disputes must be evolved, new lamps must be lighted, new truths must be laid here, new capability and ability must be trained, new modes of expression must be found, new worlds must be conquered, new relations must be established and new standards of life must be upraised.   ABU2265

"Science is the discoverer of the past. From its premises of past and present we deduce conclusions as to the future. Science is the governor of nature and its mysteries, the one agency by which man explores the institutions of material creation. All created things are captives of nature and subject to its laws. They cannot transgress the control of these laws in one detail or particular. The infinite starry worlds and heavenly bodies are nature's obedient subjects. The earth and its myriad organisms, all minerals, plants and animals are thralls of its dominion. But man through the exercise of his scientific, intellectual power can rise out of this condition, can modify, change and control nature according to his own wishes and uses. Science, so to speak, is the breaker of the laws of nature."  ABU0145

Miss Stevens: "...the Blessed Manifestation is said to have warned against the great progress of technology, and there are said to be prophecies from the All-Highest Pen which do not prophesy anything good for the development of the age of the machine. May we, honoured Master, ask your wise tongue to pronounce on this?"  The Master: "O my daughter, in your utterances, contradictory as they may appear, there is no contradiction! But one should walk the depths and heights of prophetic knowledge thoughtfully, in order to get a clear understanding of the relationship of man and of the human race to technology....  The more man can increase the speed of transportation, the more he becomes a slave of time, he no longer has time for anything - not for his body, much less for soul and spirit, not for himself, not for his fellow men, he is more and more subject to the whistling whip of the god of time.  America will conquer the Old World, not with the weapons of war or the sword of the spirit, but through its industrialism, its technical large-scale industry and through the expansion of the technical environment. The machine will devour time; prosaic numbers and formulae, cold charts and measuring devices will suck dry the soul. Mechanical power with its symbols and expressions will rule men, nay enslave and exploit them, and finally the machine will displace man entirely from life and from work, after which the end of time will approach for our planet because, though one may mechanize towns to a large extent, where man is concerned there is a limit.... But should nine tenths of mankind fall victim to the demon of exaggerated technology, the end of the history of our earth will come about. The last of the Days of Judgment will dawn, when the Prophetic Cycle will have come to an end and the world returns to God, when all becomes lost in Him through the crashing and bursting of the elements, which means annihilation for those turned away from God, but spiritualization for those resting in God, and for those souls still in need of purification and development it is a triumphant sinking into God's infinite grace and mercy. And what is the Teaching of the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah, when we recognize the signs of the time and our souls would like to turn away trembling from the increasing devilry of the age of the machine?"   ABU0170

It may seem strange to you that the Holy Spirit should give designs for labor saving machines, but in reality every creative impulse of the brain can arise only through contact with the spirit. Without that the brain is merely capable of conventional and traditional action.... The labor saving machines were given to create leisure for all mankind.... The first decided shortening of the hours will appear when a legal working day of eight hours is established... But this working day of eight hours is only the beginning. Soon there will be a six hour day, a five hour, a three hour day, even less than that, and the worker must be paid more for this management of machines, than he ever received for the exercise of his two hands alone.... You cannot understand now, how the labor saving machines can produce leisure for mankind because at present they are all in the hands of the financiers and are used only to increase profits, but that will not continue. The workers will come into their due benefit from the machine that is the divine intention, and one cannot continue to violate the law of God. So with the assurance of a comfortable income from his work, and ample leisure for each one, poverty will be banished and each community will create comfort and opportunity for its citizens. Education will then be universal at the cost of the state, and no person will be deprived of its opportunity. ABU3667
