

This is the Day of witnessing and meeting, yet most of the people are fast asleep.   BH05260

When you wish to pray you must first know that you are standing in the presence of the Almighty!   ABU3378

God, exalted be His glory, ordains the reward of attaining His presence for whomsoever He wishes.   BH09994

Whoso hath attained unto Him hath attained unto My presence and drunk the wine of reunion with Me   BH09427

remember the days of meeting Me and attaining My presence and My nearness and My manifestation and My effulgence   BH08060

Turn thou unto the ocean of reunion that thou mayest attain unto the presence of God, the Mighty, the Most Praised.  BH07365

Whoso in this luminous Day hath quaffed from the Kawthar of divine knowledge hath attained unto the presence of God   BH06031

This hath ever been and shall ever be the ultimate journey for those who seek, and the final homeland of the lovers.   BH09275

Thou didst open the gate of attainment unto Thy presence before the face of all who dwell in Thy earth and Thy heaven   BH07111

You have been created to attain the presence of God - what is wrong with you that We see you among the heedless?   BH05498

And whosoever attaineth unto this station hath attained unto the presence of God within his own self, by his own self.   BH01827

He verily ordaineth for whomsoever hath desired to attain His presence and to stand before His gate the reward thereof.   BH07558

I beseech Thee to make this meeting a treasure for me in the repositories of Thy protection and a store for me with Thee.  BH03978

Verily the thirsty one seeks the Kawthar of Thy presence, and the dead one the river of life through Thy bounty and favor.  BH05329

Blessed are they who have quaffed from the wine of immortal life and who have been nourished by the Kawthar of His presence  BH11270

I beseech Thee to ordain for me the reward of attaining Thy presence and arriving at the shore of the ocean of Thy reunion   BH04594

who hath drunk from the cups of Thy forgiveness and reunion with Thee, until she attained unto Thy nearness and Thy presence  BH09915

Thou didst attain unto the presence when the Lord of Eternity entered into the Most Great Prison, and this yet another time.   BH03837

All things bear witness to his turning unto God, the Sovereign of creation. How glorious is this station, lofty and sublime!   BH06498

We have heard the call of those who have turned toward God and have answered them with that which causeth eyes to be consoled.  BH06167

Then ordain for me to attain Thy presence, to stand at the gate of Thy majesty, and to remain steadfast in Thy Mighty Message   BH02624

"O my Lord! I am he who has sought Thy nearness and Thy presence, to stand before Thy throne and at the door of Thy grandeur."   BH06287

Therefore, all servants have been created for the meeting and knowledge of God, and have come into being through the Word "Be."  BH02321

immerse thyself in the ocean of inner meanings and divine knowledge, that thou mayest behold what thou hast never beheld before   BH08061

This is the Day whereon the Spirit calleth aloud and giveth glad tidings unto all of the presence of God, the Lord of existence.  BH05175

Those souls who have today turned towards the Dawning-Place of Revelation and have attained unto the hearing of the divine Call   BH10784

Thou art the one who entered the Most Great Scene by God's leave, the Possessor of Destiny, and departed from it by His command   BH04081

give thanks unto God for having blessed thee with His presence and caused thee to attain unto a station of praiseworthy nearness   BH08678

seek only His presence, and desire only His meeting, that thou mayest enter the City of Immortality in the most exalted Paradise   BH05672

that I may find rest at the gate of Thy oneness in Thy most glorious kingdom and receive sustenance from the banquets of meeting   AB02862

In a fit of ecstasy, the soul conjoineth with the Adored One, As soon as her ears are reached by an echo of His enrapturing Call.   BH02479

The days of attainment are surely remembered - a single moment's pause in the Desired Land cannot be equaled by centuries and ages   BH04531

thou didst turn unto the Face and didst respond to thy Lord when He called thee, and didst attain His presence in this earthly life  BH04547

that people might hasten to the Kawthar of reunion in the refuges of piety and return to the homeland wherein none dieth nor liveth   BH03750

O Lord! Have mercy upon these flowing tears and these agitated hearts. Ordain for us the joy of meeting in the most exalted Paradise  AB03601

Think not that because thou art away from the Blessed Shrine, thou art distant and in a forlorn state. Thou art present and visible.  AB04969

This is Thy servant who hath been illumined by the lamp of Thy oneness and hath turned toward the seat of the throne of Thy grandeur   BH08839

Bear thou witness to that which God Himself hath testified - that there is none other God but Him, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.  BH08505

all earthly ties are severed this day, for it is the Day of revelation and meeting, and all relationships return to the Truth Himself   BH05352

crying out therein morn and eve: "Where art Thou, O Thou the Desire of the worlds and the Beloved of them that have recognized Thee!"   BH04646

In the Most Glorious Kingdom make them intimate companions in the gathering of manifestation, and bring them into Thy private chamber   AB00310

Permit him to meet Thee after his ascension to the realms above and to behold Thy beauty in Thy most luminous, most brilliant Horizon.   AB06213

"Whenever thou rememberest thy merciful Lord, verily He is present before thy face, and though thou seest Him not, He verily seeth thee."  BH03608

Today the Speaker of the Mount is speaking. Blessed is the ear that hath been honored by His call and the eye that hath beheld His signs.  BH10049

I testify that he who hath known Thee hath known God, and he who hath attained unto Thy presence hath attained unto the presence of God.   BH01728

that which is more precious in the sight of God than what lieth concealed in the bowels of the earth and what is visible upon its surface.  BH06397

Thou art He the meeting with Whom was the hope of the chosen ones, then of the pure ones, and of those who circled round Thy mighty Throne   BH06876

Blessed is every seeing one who hath seen, and every hearing one who hath heard, and every soul that hath attained unto this mighty station  BH08728

Blessed is he who hath ascended unto God along this path. Verily he hath attained the presence of God and drunk the choice wine of reunion   BH06113

"He desired to ascend to the canopy of union with and meeting with Thee, and to abide in the seats of nearness to and proximity with Thee."  BH03245

Strive that ye may attain unto this most great bounty, that at the time of ascension ye may meet the luminous countenance of the Desired One  BH10036

I testify that thou didst purpose to attain the Most Exalted Station, and from an earthly abode didst turn thy face toward the House of God   BH06345

O people! Deprive not yourselves of the presence of God, and bar not your ears from hearkening unto that which hath been sent down in truth.   BH07132

Blessed are the days wherein thou didst attain the presence of thy Lord's countenance and didst drink from this Most Great, this Mighty Ocean   BH05671

We testify that thou didst attain the presence of the Face and didst hear what the tongue of the Wronged One spoke forth in His mighty prison.  BH04318

Blessed is he who hath migrated, advancing toward the Most Exalted Horizon until he entered and attained and heard the call of the Wronged One  BH04037

Thou didst purpose to reach the true Ka'bih and didst attain to His presence, and from the hand of bounty thou didst drink the cup of meeting.  BH03774

I bear witness that he who hath known Thee hath known God, and he who hath attained unto Thy presence hath attained unto the presence of God.   BH02307

Verily He was with you in all conditions, witnessing and beholding what befell you in His path. He is, verily, the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing.   BH05027

Blessed art thou for having attained His presence and drunk the choice wine of revelation from the hand of the bounty of thy Lord, the Generous.   BH06497

that Thou mayest cause Thy servants to ascend unto the station wherein they behold Thee upon the throne of Thy majesty and the seat of Thy glory.   BH09447

Blessed art thou for having attained the presence of the Beloved and for having turned to Him by His leave and heard His mighty and wondrous call   BH06907

and arrived before You and reached the courtyard of Your oneness and appeared before You, and You shone upon him with the lights of Your presence   AB00854

Have mercy on this seeker who has sought the Ka'bah of Thy presence, and this approaching one who has drawn near to the pavilion of Thy outpouring   BH07779

Whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto My Face and been illumined by the lights of My Beauty and acknowledged My unity and confessed My singleness   BH08919

draw thee nigh unto My presence and bring thee to My dawning-place wherein the lights of My beauty have shone forth from the direction of My throne   BH04382

All creation has hoped and yearned to attain the presence of the Manifestation of Revelation, which is identical with attaining the presence of God.  BH01735

ordain for Thy loved ones and Thy leaves the reward of attaining Thy presence and standing before Thy face and appearing at the gate of Thy grandeur   BH06028

Muhammad hath in these days been present before the Throne, and 'Ali is circling round, and Our servant Rahim and his other son are turning unto God.  BH05686

Thou didst advance and turn thy face until thou didst arrive before the Countenance and didst hear the call of the Wronged One from His lofty station.  BH02545

that thou mayest witness the heaven of My majesty and the kingdom of My grandeur, and visit the House of My remembrance and the Kaaba of My knowledge   BH08053

The All-Glorious hath turned toward thee from this Prison and mentioned thee in such wise as to set ablaze the hearts of them that are near unto God.   BH07894

Yet when they drew near, they were prevented from entering the precincts of Thy mighty oneness and from attaining presence before Thy majestic throne   BH07671

"I am exceedingly sorry to trouble you, but pray have a little patience with our requests tonight, for tomorrow night we shall be the guests of God."   ABU0451

He verily commands you to that which will draw you nigh unto a station wherein naught is seen save the radiance of My shining and luminous countenance   BH06649

My tears are flowing, my sighs are protracted, and my distress hath intensified by reason of my yearning to meet Thee and my attraction to Thy kingdom.  AB06007

Among the people are those who awaited the days of God and His presence, yet when He appeared they turned away and followed the ways of the ignorant ones.  BH09342

Blessed is he who hath inclined his ear unto the Divine Lote-Tree which calleth betwixt the worlds, and blessed the eye that hath beheld this noble scene.  BH11795

if thou seekest true union at the divine threshold, bring thy heart near, and if thou seekest spiritual nearness at the merciful court, gladden thy spirit  AB06373

Be not grieved at separation from your father, for he is engaged in the most great and glorious service, and this separation is the cause of eternal union  AB11709

And We bear witness that thou didst leave thy homeland, seeking the homeland of God, and didst traverse land and sea in thy longing to attain His presence   BH10780

when thou didst enter the Garden of Paradise and didst sit in the presence of God, the Mighty, the Beautiful, and the Tongue of God spoke with thee openly   BH09321

O my Lord! I have turned my face toward the Dayspring of the lights of Thy countenance. I beseech Thee not to deprive me of Thee in any world of Thy worlds.  BH06202

Thou seest him who is remote seeking Thy nearness, and the poor one seeking the ocean of Thy riches, and the thirsty one seeking the Kawthar of Thy bounty.   BH02351

And after being presented in the court of His presence, a word was revealed that transformed every remoteness into nearness and every separation into union.  BH01951

This is the day whereon all eyes can gaze upon the beauty of the All-Glorious, a day which hath neither peer nor equal whether in the past or in the future.   BH04779

He, verily, beareth witness that thou hast attained unto the promised reunion, and set thyself towards the True One at a time when all men have turned aside   BH02465

We make mention of everyone who desireth to turn towards this forbidden quarter, and We ordain for whomsoever We please the reward of attaining His presence.   BH06279

cast me not away from the gate of the city of Thy presence, and to disappoint not the hopes I have set on the manifestations of Thy grace amidst Thy creatures  BH01125

Today is the day of meeting, for the Beloved has appeared. Soar on the wings of the love of the All-Merciful, that perchance ye may attain spiritual nearness.   BH09286

I would rather Thou shouldst torment me with a torment than which there can be none greater in Thy knowledge, and ordain for me the sweetness of meeting Thee.   BH07216

Thus he yearned to be present at Your holy threshold and hastened to the source of favors, the fountain of forgiveness, and the place of grace and benevolence.  AB03548

"Great is his blessedness whosoever hath set himself towards Thee, and entered Thy presence" "drive them not out from Thy presence, through Thy loving-kindness"  BH08433

Blessed art thou for having attained the presence of the Beloved and for having entered, appeared, and heard the call of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Impregnable.   BH01918

This is a Call in yearning to hear which the hosts of Revelation and Inspiration have perished - to this doth your Lord, the Great, the All-Knowing, bear witness.   BH04316

Within the meadows of Thy nearness, before Thy presence, make me able to roam, O my Beloved, and at the right hand of the throne of Thy mercy seat me, O my Desire!   BH06296

Know with certainty that ye shall never again hear the melodies of God, never draw nigh unto a manifest meeting with Him, never witness the beauty of God among you   BH01239

Be thou steadfast in the love of God, then remember Him at morn and eventide. Beware lest anything prevent thee from turning toward the Dawning-Place of Revelation.   BH07282

O servant! Blessed art thou in that thou hast drawn nigh unto God, thy Lord, attained His presence, and been honored to meet Him. This, verily, is a mighty triumph.   BH03824

so that we may attain to meeting, which is the greatest of God's bounties, glorified be His majesty, and under the shade of His blessed Tree offer thanks and praise.  BH02249

Blessed is the hearer who hath on this day won victory through the call of the Self-Subsisting, and blessed is the seer who hath turned unto the Dayspring of lights.   BH08393

Blessed is he who hath attained His presence...thou wast illumined by the Sun of Grandeur and attained the presence of the Spirit of God and wast honored to meet Him.  BH06239

Whoso reciteth this Tablet with the love of the Lord in his heart will witness in his dreams whatever he hath desired of reunion with God, the Almighty, the Beloved.   BH04444

Make them intoxicated from the brimming cup of attainment to Your presence, and in an eternal celebration make them full of joy from the wine of beholding Your beauty  AB03993

Blessed are you for having attained the presence of God in your early days and drunk the choice wine of reunion from the hands of the bounty of your Lord, the Generous  BH06829

There is and hath been no doubt that all were created for attainment unto His presence, and the One True Beloved hath ever loved and loveth the nearness of His friends.  BH05607

O thou who hast turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon! Hearken unto the rustling of the Divine Lote Tree. Verily it draweth thee nigh unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH07921

This is the City of God and His dwelling-place with pure and holy souls from among His servants. And He will dwell with them, for they are His people and He is their God  AB03051

Wilt Thou cast away this evanescent one who hath sought the kingdom of Thine eternity, and wilt Thou deny this thirsty one who hath turned toward the ocean of Thy bounty?  BH07789

"At dawn the Friend came to my bed: 'O fool for love, o broken heart'" "O Friend! O Healer of my soul! How is it that Thou hast come to the sick-bed of this ailing one?"   BH02406

thou didst turn toward the Dawning-Place of verses and the Rising-Point of clear proofs, and didst attain unto the presence of the Kaaba of God, the Lord of all the worlds  BH10498

Consequently God revealed Himself to Moses through the burning bush, to Christ through the Holy Spirit and to Mohamad through Gabriel. These different names mean one thing.  ABU2625

Thou art indeed among those who have attained unto Him and His presence, and heard His call, and stood before the Throne after most of the servants were debarred therefrom.   BH04826

He attained the presence of the Countenance, and the lights of Beauty shone upon Him from the Dayspring of Glory. Thus doth God single out whom He willeth through His grace   BH01961

I am the one, O my God, who hath left his abode, turning toward Thy abode. Thou hearest the lamentation of my heart in my separation from Thee and my yearning to meet Thee.   BH01837

"Neither My earth nor My heaven can contain Me, but the heart of My believing servant can contain Me" - meaning "thy heart is My dwelling place: sanctify it for My descent."   AB11779

I beseech Thee to ordain for everyone who hath turned unto Thee the reward of them that have attained unto Thy presence and have quaffed the choice wine of nearness unto Thee   BH10907

The presence of your letter testifies that you are with Someone, and under the shadow of Someone - but what Someone! The King of all beings and the Creator of earth and heaven.   BH08740

Thou knowest that the fire of separation cannot be quenched save by the waters of Thy reunion and presence, and their agitation cannot be stilled except by beholding Thy beauty.   BH08262

this gaze of mine I have directed to visit Thy countenance and the splendor of Thy presence...this inner being of mine I have stirred with longing for union with and meeting Thee  BH03676

She has [been honored] by attaining Your presence in Your days and witnessing the beauty of Your countenance in the horizon of Your sanctification and the kingdom of Your oneness  AB11726

We beseech God, exalted be He, to show you the Sun that shineth from its depths - verily it is the mystery, and the mystery of the mystery, and the mystery enshrouded in mystery.   BH03567

"Cast away all that ye possess and soar on the wings of detachment into this atmosphere wherein waft the breezes of the mercy of your Lord, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous."  BH00421

has ever lived thirsting for the cup of meeting Thee, yearning to gaze upon Thy beauty, stirred by Thy sweet fragrances, longing to hear Thy voice, hoping to attain Thy threshold.  AB05418

When thou dost inhale the fragrance of My mention and hear My call, say: Glory be unto Thee, O my God! All praise be unto Thee for having remembered me from Thy most exalted horizon   BH04842

Blessed is he who hath rent asunder the veils and entered the presence of his Lord, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous, and hath drunk the most pure wine from the Supreme Horizon.   BH02538

Thou didst desire reunion; the Wronged One too desireth it, but the smoke of heedless hearts hath become an obstacle, and the hatred of souls hath appeared as an impenetrable barrier.  BH10473

and all may turn their faces to the court of Thy holiness, and all in the lands may hasten to the carpet of Thy intimacy, and may behold naught save the pure vision of Thy countenance   BH05799

We have created all beings that We might make known unto them Our path and draw them nigh unto Our kingdom and dominion, and honor them with Our presence in Our glorious and mighty Day.  BH00499

He traversed land and sea in his longing to attain the presence of God... until thou didst seek the Most Exalted Horizon to attain the presence of the Throne and stand before the Gate.   BH04313

Deprive not thyself of the grace which hath preceded all created things and for whose appearance the Temples of the Cause waited in centuries past. Say: He hath appeared in human form.   BH03488

Give thanks unto God for having enabled thy brother to attain His presence and hearken unto that which the Tongue of Grandeur and Glory uttereth from His mighty and impregnable station.   BH08094

her who has turned to the Countenance and desired to draw near to the Most Great Sea...We make mention of every handmaiden who hath turned to God and every servant who hath faced his Lord  BH06143

Say: Verily, no one shall ever see Me, nor find any path unto Me, except by finding a path unto Him upon Whom We reveal the verses. If ye see Him, then ye have attained unto My presence.   BB00234

by the lamentation of them that yearn for Thee in their separation and remoteness from Thee, and by the cry of them that love Thee at the appearance of the Sun of Thy reunion and presence   BH02214

He shall be present in My presence and shall circle round My majesty and shall soar with My Self in the atmosphere of My heavenly dominion and might and the cities of My grandeur and power   BH08298

The door of meeting has been opened and the fragrance of reunion has been diffused... thou didst drink the choice wine of reunion from the hand of the bounty of the Dawning-Place of Beauty   BH02401

All people have ever yearned for attainment unto the presence of God and still do yearn for it, but when the Sun of Meeting dawned and the ocean of attainment surged, most remained deprived.  BH05335

Write down for them, moreover, what none of Thy creatures hath discovered, and number them with those who have circled round Thee, and who move about Thy throne in every world of Thy worlds.  BH05849

Your mention has been made before the throne, and there has been sent down for you that which shall profit you in the hereafter and in this world, shouldst thou be of them that are steadfast.   BH09458

By My life! He who desires My presence is among those who have attained the presence of My countenance, heard My call, and attained the Kawthar of My meeting and the choice wine of My reunion.  BH04026

The signs of the favors of God, exalted be His glory, are manifest and evident from every direction, and the effulgences of the lights of His Revelation are sanctified and holy beyond all else.  BH11882

Regarding your desire to attain His presence - blessed are you and your desire. He verily records for whosoever desires it the reward of attaining His presence. He is the Hearer, the Answerer.   BH02149

for having honored me with Thy presence and given me to drink of the Kawthar of Thy reunion, and caused me to be seated in the sacred precincts at the manifestation of Thy power and sovereignty   BH03525

The greatest glad tidings is the presence of that spiritual friend in the holy court of the Lord. I beseech and hope from God that He may soon grant the blessing of attainment unto His presence.   BH00665

Then make me to be of those who have circled round Thy will, who have sought the Kaaba of Thy presence, who have stood before Thee, and who have heard Thy most sweet call from Thy Most Exalted Pen.   BH10357

We make mention of those days when thou wert present with thy uncle - upon him be God's mercy and grace - before Our face, and ye both heard what the Tongue of Grandeur uttered in His mighty prison.   BH06965

Nothing shall profit you this Day though ye should cling to all things, and naught shall quench your thirst of separation save the water of reunion that floweth from the spring of your Lord's bounty   BH05374

Blessed art thou, inasmuch as thou hast drunk from the fountain of reunion from the hands of bounty, and from the Kawthar of immortality through the grace of thy Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted.   BH10614

I swear by the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, that solace is impossible except through ascension to the Abha Kingdom and entering the presence of the Most Great Mercy.   AB05290

Deliver Thy servants from the promptings of self and passion, that they may turn with their hearts unto Thee, hearken unto Thy call, and recognize that which Thou hast ordained for them through Thy bounty.  BH01445

those who attained the presence of the Countenance and were blessed to hearken to the call of their Lord...those who circumambulated the Throne and drank the Kawthar of immortality from the hands of bounty  BH04810

Verily I say, this is the Day in which mankind can behold the Face, and hear the Voice, of the Promised One. The Call of God hath been raised, and the light of His countenance hath been lifted up upon men.  BH01352

congratulations to thee upon thine arrival at the seat of the Face and Beauty, and thy entrance from the hiding place of Glory into the throne of never-ending might and the King of sanctity without compare   BH07498

"We beseech God to gather us together in the gardens of immortality near unto the twin glorious bows, that haply thou mayest witness the secrets of God's decree within this crimson and effulgent countenance"  BH07724

How many souls there were who waited expectantly for this Day and who, with utmost supplication and ardent desire, besought the All-Bountiful for His presence, and yet were deprived and forbidden therefrom.   BH06372

Finally, the command will reach the stage of the inmost heart, which is the gulf of immortality and pure life, in the presence of the Lord of creation. There, for evermore, the servant will gaze towards God.  BB00613

After this blessed utterance, the longing friends with the utmost attraction and enthusiasm came to kiss His blessed hands and garments, and gave thanks for the bounty of attaining His presence and meeting.   ABU2138

Hold thou fast to the Sure Handle and cling to the hem of the grace of the Lord of all humanity. Today the Great News hath appeared and the Truth, exalted be His glory, hath rent asunder the veils of majesty.   BH05356

We testify that thou didst circle round the Throne and didst attain the presence of thy Lord when most of mankind were debarred therefrom, and didst drink the pure wine from the hand of the bounty of thy Lord.  BH02066

He has attained Our presence and heard that which caused the lips of mystic knowledge to smile throughout creation. The hand of grace took hold of him and enabled him to attain the most holy and exalted Court.   BH04379

After every separation comes nearness and reunion. And whosoever attains to this station and causes his own will to be annihilated in the Will of God, has everlastingly been in nearness to the Eternal Presence.   BH05687

At last he withdrew from this earthly life and grew weary of remaining in this lower realm. He longed for the Supreme Companion, forsook this first creation, and sought refuge near Thy mercy in the life to come.  AB11326

He beareth witness that thou didst seek the Most Exalted Goal and didst attain unto the presence of thy Lord, when all humanity turned away save those whom God, thy Lord, the Forgiving, the Merciful, did choose.   BH11139

one who hath turned towards My horizon, set his face towards My countenance, spoken My praise, appeared before My throne, and heard My call, and hath drunk the choice wine of reunion from the hands of My bounty.   BH08612

He hastened to the Abha Kingdom and the most exalted horizon... In that sanctified rose garden he built his nest in the Divine Lote Tree, and in the presence of the Most Great Mercy he found dwelling and shelter.  AB00517

I beseech Thee then, O my God, by that Name of Thine whereby Thou hast encompassed all things with Thy knowledge, to ordain for all things the reward of attaining Thy presence and the station of reunion with Thee   BH09853

Thy son, who hath been honored to attain the presence of God time and again and who hath been seized by the breathings of the days which were recorded in all the Tablets by the Pen of God, hath appeared before Us.  BH07871

Verily He hath appeared with the truth and hath opened the gate of reunion before all who are in earth and heaven. Blessed is he who hath attained the presence, and woe unto every heedless one who hath turned away  BH06008

Then ordain for me, O my God, that which will draw me nigh unto Thee in all conditions. Verily, Thou art the Self-Sufficient, the Most High. There is none other God but Thee, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous."  BH05130

How many servants desired to attain the presence but were prevented from attaining unto the throne. For this did the dwellers of the cities of the Kingdom of Names and the denizens of the Concourse on High lament   BH03439

from the soul's solitude will come the "soul's companionship with God": - the companionship of Him, the All-Highest and yourself -; then say with Jacob, the Patriarch, "I will not let You go, unless You bless me!"  ABU2948

And if ye are able within yourselves, then sail upon the crimson ark in My Most Exalted Name and traverse the sea of grandeur that ye may find yourselves beneath a shade illumined by the lights of His countenance.   BH01172

Grant him nearness to Thee, O Most Bountiful! Bestow upon him the gift of meeting Thee, O Most Kind! Make him the intimate of Thy gracious countenance and the companion of Thy loved ones in the Paradise of Delight   AB03084

Come thou and draw nigh, that thine eyes may be solaced by My beauty... Come thou and hasten, that thou mayest attain unto the pavilion of My reunion and enter the garden of paradise, My dwelling-place and habitation   BH03614

To reach the presence of Mulla Muhammad Ja'far that he may behold the Greatest Scene. O Ja'far! Rend asunder the veils of idle fancy, for We have rent them by a sovereignty from Our presence and a power from Our side.   BH01066

The fire of thy separation from Me was fast consuming thee, when the ocean of My presence surged before thy face, cheering thine eyes and those of all creation, and filling with delight all things visible and invisible.  BH02324

such that whoso desired was present each day before the throne of Thy mercy, and each night before Thy countenance, and in every moment there shone upon them the lights of Thy face and the suns of Thy grandeur and power   BH03632

for having given me to drink from the Kawthar of reunion through the hands of grace and bounty, for having caused me to hear Thy Most Sweet Call and to behold the lights of Thy Countenance from Thy Most Exalted Horizon.   BH03248

when he was in Thy vicinity in the great city which was honored by Thy presence, wherein Thou didst reveal that which was hidden in Thy knowledge, and wherein Thou didst manifest Thy Self and Thy sovereignty and Thy power  BH07271

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy might and dominion and by the mysteries of Thy Manifestation that Thou write down for me, with Thy Most Exalted Pen, the recompense of attaining Thy presence and standing before Thy face.   BH07639

turn toward the Most Great Scene, that thou mayest behold the Eternal Countenance from the horizon of the everlasting heaven and drink, after the passing away of all things, from the Kawthar of reunion with the Lord of Names  BH06475

he turned towards the Most Holy Court and time after time and repeatedly partook of the Kawthar of meeting and the choice wine of reunion. We showed him Our most exalted horizon and caused him to hear Our most great verses.   BH03466

verily he is among those who have attained the presence of God, the Protector, the Mighty, the Wise, and who circled the Spot of God until he entered therein by His leave and appeared before the Throne with evident humility.   BH01784

Set thy face toward the Ultimate Goal and the Most Exalted Summit, that thou mayest visit on behalf of him whom God hath extolled in His Book, and given to drink of the Kawthar of His presence and the Salsabil of His reunion   BH04099

Although in this world of uncertainty the loftiness of this station is neither known nor evident, yet this bounty shall shine forth like unto a celestial lamp amidst the gathering of spiritual beings in the Concourse on High.  AB10261

this evanescent one who desireth to enter the stronghold of Thy eternity and drink from the Tasnim of Thy providence and soar in the atmosphere of yearning for Thee and ascend unto the heaven of union with Thee and meeting Thee  BH07666

He hath abandoned this mortal life and hath flown to the kingdom of immortality, yearning for the favour of meeting Thee...He hath, verily, attained the meeting of his Lord at the seat of Truth in the presence of the potent King.  AB03896

Ponder, then, upon thy affair, and choose for thyself what thou desirest. But if thou wouldst hearken unto Me, choose that which will draw thee nigh unto the meeting with thy Beloved and will unite thee with thy Lord and thy Goal.  BH11887

That mystery which was hidden in all the divine Books and mentioned in the hearts of the Prophets and holy ones hath become manifest and evident and witnessed. Where are the eyes worthy of this Day, or the ears capable of this call?  BH00065

I have turned toward the horizon of Thy Manifestation, the ocean of Thy bounty and the sun of Thy grace. I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones, Thy trusted ones and Thy loved ones.   BH03760

while you, through the favor of the Most Glorious Beloved, have entered beneath the sheltering shade of the Tree of the Uttermost End. This is a bounty that hath ever been the ultimate desire of the denizens of the Supreme Concourse.  BH08743

you reached the Holy Shrine with pure intention in such a day and such a century - this is the ultimate bounty. Second, that you were blessed to visit the Sacred Threshold. Third, that you attained the presence of the Most Exalted One  ABU0852

Blessed art thou, and blessed are thy father, thy mother, and thy brother who attained unto the presence of his Lord and quaffed the choice wine of reunion from the hands of the bounty of his Lord, the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.   BH08616

cause them to enter the pavilion of reunion at the shining forth of the lights of Thy countenance...make them to be among those who circle round the sanctuary of Thy oneness and who stand before the revelation of the lights of Thy face.  BH07124

My God, my God! Thy separation hath caused me to perish. Where is the light of Thy presence, O Illuminator of the world? The venom of remoteness from Thee hath destroyed me. Where is the fountain of Thy reunion, O Quickener of nations?   BH00361

And then, when the doors of the Kingdom are opened unto thee, seek thou reunion with Him instantly! Attain thy heart's desire! Enter the "Seat of truth" in the company of the exalted and seek thy shelter beneath the shade of His mercy.   AB05154

Praise the Beloved of the world that thou hast drunk from the cup of Beauty, which is the countenance of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, the Water of Life, and hast attained unto the knowledge of God, which is the source of all good.  BH10211

I beseech Thee by that shore of the sea of Thy reunion whereon was raised the pavilion of Thy majesty and the tabernacle of Thy Cause, and where Thou didst manifest Thyself unto all who are on earth through the lights of Thy countenance   BH07470

And he beheld what Moses desired and heard what the Beloved heard when He ascended to a mighty and glorious station. With thine own eyes thou didst behold and with thine own ears thou didst hear that which no eye hath seen nor ear heard.   BH04023

Show them the way to the sanctuary of beauty. Through one supreme glance and most glorious vision, honor those struck down by the Most Exalted Beauty to reach the Ka'bah of union, beyond the veils of majesty and the shrouds of similitude.  BH08129

Through the wonders of His grace He guided thee to the Most Great Scene until thou didst attain unto His presence, drink from the cup of meeting, and without veil or barrier become illumined by the light of the countenance of the Beloved.   BH03609

that Thou mayest cause me to ascend unto the heights of the sanctity of Thy oneness and raise me to the kingdom of rapture of Thy essence, that I may soar on wings of detachment to the Lote-Tree of ascension in the paradise of Thy providence  BH04357

Should God will, He would adorn your bed with His Name, the Praised Muhammad, and would renew your covenant with Him, grant you His presence, and draw you nigh unto Him as the soul draweth nigh unto the spirit and the beloved unto the Beloved   BH07497

And We testify that thou didst enter and arrive and attain the presence before the Face, and didst hear with thine own ear the call of the Wronged One. Thou didst take the choice wine of reunion from the hand of bounty and drink it in His Name  BH02220

thou hast turned to the Wronged One, clinging to His Name, the Self-Subsisting, and hast traversed land and sea until thou didst reach the shore of the Most Great Ocean and didst behold the waves of His utterance and the pearls of His knowledge   BH04040

O Ali! The Dayspring of the Cause addresseth thee in most wondrous utterance. By God! Wert thou to be present before the Throne and hear it from the Tongue of grandeur and power, thou wouldst sacrifice thy body, then thy spirit, then thy very self   BH02443

When I entered and attained His presence, after permission was granted, I presented what was contained therein. Then the face of the Beloved turned toward me and He spoke that which I am unable to mention except according to my weakness and poverty.   BH01127

Is there anything more agreeable than thy presence before the Throne, My Glance at thee, <and> My mentioning thee in this Tablet which We have made it a sign of Our Favor towards thee both (or intrinsically and extrinsically) in private and in public?  BH04128

This is a Book unto My servant Javad, who was attracted by the wine of utterance - that is, heard the Call and ran forward intoxicated. The All-Merciful hath drawn nigh unto the dwelling of him whom He loveth and who loveth Him, as a token of His grace.  BH06783

How many were the divines and the learned and the jurisprudents who longed for the presence of God, yet after His manifestation remained deprived thereof, while thou didst drink from the choice wine of reunion and didst attain unto the kingdom of meeting   BH06460

He aided thee to recognize His sanctified Essence and led thee to the Highest Horizon until thou arrived here and attained the Presence, drank from the Kawthar of the reunion of the imperishable Desire, and became aware of His holy and sanctified Person.   BH05945

Those far have drawn near while those near remain remote. The Jacobs, though a thousand leagues distant, have their nostrils perfumed by the fragrance of Joseph's garment, while the bearers of the garment remain deprived and remote from the manifest light.   AB04021

"yet inwardly, praise and thanks be to God, he was blessed with the outpourings of the All-Merciful and attained that which is the ultimate goal - the presence of the Beloved of the worlds. This is truly a grace which serves as a luminous crown atop all deeds."  BH06901

O my God! Admit me into Thy presence among those near unto Thee, grant me the joy of meeting Thee among those who have attained, let me drink the water of Thy mercy from the cup of Thy grace among the sincere ones, and honor me with Thy favors among the believers.   BB00121

in successive years thou wert present before the throne of the All-Merciful, and in all nights and days thou didst attain unto the presence of God. At sunrise thy gaze was fixed upon the Most Great Scene and thy heart was turned toward the right hand of the throne.   BH02749

He who hath attained the presence of the Countenance in the manifest outer realm - this is better for him than the worship of both humans and jinn. Around this outward manifestation revolve the worlds of the inner reality, yet the people remain in evident obscurity.   BH00986

The honored father, upon him be the glory of God and His grace and His mercy and His bounty, has attained unto a grace that has no equal. He has ever been coming and going before His presence, attaining that which was the hope of the sincere ones and those brought nigh.  BH00023

I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Bountiful, and Glory be unto Thee, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the All-Generous, to make me one of those who have quaffed the wine of reunion from the hands of Thy bounty and the Kawthar of meeting through Thy grace and favors.  BH11894

This is one dead who desireth the breaths of Thy revelation and what would give him life through the eternity of Thy might and sovereignty; and this is one non-existent who seeketh existence from the heaven of Thy bounty and the sea of Thy generosity and the sun of Thy grace   BH02316

When the grace and favours of the Divine Essence encompass the faithful servant and the radiance of His guidance reacheth the seeker after truth, the veil of Thou shalt in no wise see Me is rent asunder and the lights of Look, then shalt thou see Me shed their effulgent rays.  AB12337

We bear witness that thou didst enter the prison, and present thyself, and stand before the gate, and with thine own ears didst hear the call of the Wronged One--a call through which every lamp was lit, every sun rose, every moon appeared, and every luminous horizon shone forth.  BH00872

You were all created to attain His presence and to stand in that most mighty and most great station. He shall send down from the heaven of His generosity that which is best for you, and that which He hath sent down from His presence shall make you independent of all the worlds.  BH00004

This is Thy servant who hath turned toward the realms of the sanctity of Thy divinity, and desired to enter the sanctuary of Thy Being and to gain admittance to the house of Thy oneness, that he might witness the subtleties of Thy beauty in the manifestations of Thine identity.   BH10619

We beseech Him to bless you with His presence and meeting in all those worlds. Think not this a mere promise - whatsoever has been recorded by the Pen of Destiny is immediate. To this testify My tongue of grandeur, My pen of will, and the servants of My pavilion of infallibility.  BH06346

His visitation is regarded by God as better than those who have visited and do visit in these days the shrines bearing Our names and are counted among the visitors - for they visit mere names while remaining veiled from their Creator and Originator, and are among the heedless ones  BH04455

This is that treasure for which many sincere ones and near ones have given their lives, and with utmost humility and supplication have begged it from the Self-Sufficient Lord...that all exists so that one might be mentioned but once in the presence of that Luminary of pre-existence  BH01991

Send down, then, upon me, O my Lord, out of the heaven of Thy bounty what will draw me nearer unto the chalice of Thy gifts, and make me able to quaff the choice sealed Wine, whose seal hath been loosed in Thy name, and from Which the sweet savors of Thy days have been shed abroad.   BH04568

O My community and My leaf! The Wronged One calleth thee from the precincts of the Prison and inviteth thee to the supreme horizon, that perchance thy tongue may not cease from mention, nor thine eye from beholding, nor thine ear from hearkening, nor thy heart from turning toward Him.  BH07344

He drew near with his heart and feet until he reached the paradise of Thy oneness and won the presence of the tree of Thy singleness before the sanctuary of Thy beauty. He sought Thy leave until he entered within the precincts of Thy mercy in the sanctuary of nearness and reunion with Thee  BH04477

you turned towards Him and, purely for the sake of God, set out from your home intending to reach the Most Great House of God. You bore the hardship of travel and traversed sea and land until you arrived at the Most Great Prison and heard His sweetest call and beheld His most exalted horizon  BH05727

These are the verses of immortality wherein are contained the mysteries of God, the Protector, the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Therein is mentioned that which gives glad tidings unto men of the meeting with their Lord on the Day when all who are in the realm of being shall be gathered together.   BH06499

We beseech Him, exalted be He, to draw you both near unto Him in every world among His worlds, to grant you the bounty of attaining His presence in His dominion and kingdom, and to send down upon you from the heaven of His generosity the table of His knowledge and the grace of His munificence.  BH11651

Ye were raised up in a place where the Holy Spirit would cry out "Thanks be to Thee for gathering me in this plane" and ye were brought together in an assembly where the Faithful Spirit would exclaim from heart and soul "Praise be to Thee, O Sun of Reality, for raising me up on this Promised Day."   AB02759

O Thou my Desired One! How I long to attain to Thy radiant meeting! O Thou my Hope! How I yearn to look into Thy luminous Countenance! How I crave to be submerged in the sea of Thy refulgent Lights! How I strain my ears to listen to the invisible, soft music of the angels of Thy supreme concourse!   ABU0575

When I read and understood its contents, I repaired to a station which meanings cannot reach, nor utterance, nor can the bird of knowledge approach it. I was present and presented that wherewith you praised God, the Lord of the Throne and of earth, the Master of the hereafter and of the former times.   BH00427

He that drinketh the water that I shall give him shall never thirst." This means the apprehension of the ideals of the human world and of the heavenly realm. Day by day may you receive these concepts; day by day may you inherit this new state of consciousness till you become immersed in the sea of divine light.  ABU2290

Thou didst turn to God by His leave and didst draw nigh unto Him to Whom the world hath turned, until thou didst enter the pavilion of eternity wherein was raised the call of God, the Lord of the worlds. Thou didst attain the presence of the Throne and didst hear and witness that which is inscribed in the Tablet of God.  BH02194

"When he succeeds, however, this earthly being becomes heavenly and this soul engrossed in the world of matter acquires divine perfections... Thus shall they find a way to the mysteries of the Kingdom of Abha and shall through the potency of His love learn of all the guarded mysteries and hidden secrets of the Abha Beauty."  AB04126

If thou seest Him, then blessed art thou, and if thou seest Him not, verily He seeth thee. If thou knowest Him, thine eyes are gladdened, and if thou knowest Him not, yet He knoweth thee in thy turning and thy resting-place, and He is never heedless of thee nor will He forget thee. He heareth thy cry and thy whispered prayer.  BH11878

Indeed, God, glorified be He, is manifest to thee through thee, observing thee through thee, and encompassing thee through thee. This station is thy highest paradise and thy farthest mosque, for the people of the paradise of good-pleasure have nothing but the mention of God's greatest name and His mightiest, most generous name.  BB00151

This is a letter from Us to him who attained the presence and drank the wine of revelation from the hands of the bounty of his Lord, the Generous, who stood before the Face and heard the Call which was raised in the prison of Akka, who attained the meeting and took the chalice of immortality from the hands of the bounty of his Lord  BH02205

Then didst Thou manifest these hidden names upon the tablets through the Point which Thou didst detail by Thy power, making it to tell of him whom Thou didst create from the fire of Thy love and the air of Thy grace, and Thou didst conceal therein the earth of Thy will that it might be watered by the waters of tenderness from the hand of Thy bounty.  BH01141

They have drunk the choice wine of Thy utterance before Thy face, and have entered the gate of Thy mercy which Thou hadst opened unto all who are in Thy heaven and on Thine earth. Through Thy might and power they have advanced until they attained the salsabil of reunion from the hand of Thy bounty and the kawthar of meeting through Thy leave and will.   BH07840

I beseech Thee by the lights of Thy countenance, the mysteries of Thy Book, and that which Thou hast concealed from the eyes of Thy servants, to ordain for them what they desire of Thy bounty, Thy favors, Thy mercy and Thy grace. O my Lord! Draw them nigh unto Thee that they may stand before the gate of the City of Thy might wherein was raised Thy Call   BH01040

Blessed art thou for having attained, visited, beheld and heard that which the Dawning-Place of verses hath spoken from His noble presence... thou hast attained unto the water of life, entered the Most Great Scene and been illumined by the lights of the countenance of the Lord of Destiny... you have attained His presence and drunk from the wine of reunion.   BH03649

Give thanks unto thy Lord for having attained His presence at the Throne, for having circumambulated the sanctuary of God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds, for having dwelt in the pavilion of holiness, for having heard repeatedly the call of thy Lord, and for having drunk the choice wine of revelation from the chalice of His hallowed bounty, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH08006

Know that your brother Nabil has attained the presence of the Throne and has won what was ordained for him in preserved tablets of glory. He has reached the summit of grace and has heard the verses of God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. The lights seized him from all directions - none comprehend this save those who have attained the presence of God, the Mighty, the Beloved.  BH02152

He traversed land and sea and bore hardships until he entered the Luminous Spot and attained the presence of and arose before the Gate which was opened unto all who are in the heavens and the earth. Verily We caused him to hear Our sweetest call and guided him to Our Most Glorious Horizon and gave him to drink of the Kawthar of immortality which is My mighty, impregnable presence.   BH06158

Can anyone comprehend or behold the Eternal Essence? Say: Glory be to God! None can comprehend or behold Him, but whoso beholdeth the manifestation of His Self Who speaketh from His presence, verily beholdeth the meeting with his Lord. Thus doth God expound the verses, both before and after, that haply ye may be assured of meeting Him Whom He shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection.  BB00087

Though it is evident that no grace, bounty, station or rank can ever equal attaining the presence of God in the visible realm, I swear by the Sun of the glory of oneness, rising from the dawning-place of detachment in My Name, the All-Powerful, that nothing can equal appearing before the Throne in the visible realm, even for a moment, though one possessed all that is in the heavens and earth.   BH00965

There hath been and there is no doubt that the Ancient Essence, with Its attribute of absolute invisibility, hath been and ever shall be sanctified from manifestation and appearance, and none shall attain unto It save during the days of the appearance of the Divine Manifestations and the Fountainhead of heavenly knowledge. Whosoever hath attained unto Him hath attained unto the meeting with God.   BH00316

O friends! Strive with all your hearts that perchance ye may drink this heavenly Kawthar from the hand of divine favors, for it hath ever been and shall remain the quickener of hearts and the gladdener of souls. Whosoever attaineth unto it and drinketh a draught thereof is numbered among the people of eternity in the Kingdom of Names, and whosoever remaineth deprived thereof is accounted among the dead.   BH08301

For this is the station which Thou hast specially ordained for the sincere ones among Thy loved ones and the near ones among the people of Thy affection - they who behold none but Thee, who turn to none but Thee, who trust in none but Thee, who find intimacy with none save Thy beauty, who immerse themselves in naught but the seas of Thy good-pleasure, who breathe not except by Thy leave, and who speak not except by Thy command.  BH00612

And became sanctified from the realm of eternal and everlasting things, that ye might hear that spiritual, divine breeze from the sanctuary of inner meanings, and inhale this sweet-scented perfume from the musk-laden tresses of faithfulness, that ye might make the morn of the Divine Presence sweet and spiritual through this gentle, ethereal breeze, and make the spirit of the eternal cloud fragrant and refreshed through this spiritual perfume.  BH11624

O my God! Thou art He Who hath guided me through Thy bounty and aided me through Thy grace, until I departed from my home, seeking the ultimate goal and the supreme summit - the Station wherein was raised the screech of Thy Most Exalted Pen and the rustling of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha - until I attained Thy presence and heard and beheld that which was inscribed in Thy Book, recorded in Thy Scrolls, and treasured within the hearts of Thy Prophets.  BH06569

As long as a person is not separated from the sacred surroundings of the Threshold of Baha'u'llah, he does not realize the magnitude of his loss, neither can he conceive the grandeur of this bounty... No matter how unhappy and sorrowful a person may be, when he arrives at the Divine Threshold of the Tomb of the Blessed Perfection, he forgets all. Another world and its calm influence are unfolded to him, and he remembers naught else save the Beauty of the Beloved.   ABU1135

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the Mother Book which is established upon the throne in the ultimate end, and which Thou hast made the Dawning-Place of Thy verses, the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens, the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Source of Thy Cause, to strengthen me to remain steadfast in Thy love in such wise that what the people possess shall never prevent me. O Lord! Thou seest me turning toward Thy direction and setting my face toward Thy countenance.  BH00118

Blessed is he who hath attained unto these days and recognized the Manifestation of God's Self in this wondrous garment, and whom nothing between the heavens and earth hath withheld from God. Blessed is the eye that hath beheld His beauty, and blessed is the ear that hath heard His melodies, and blessed are the tongues that have voiced His praise, and blessed are the hearts which God hath made receptacles of His love and mirrors of His radiant and luminous countenance.   BH01702

By Thy glory, O my Beloved! Even shouldst Thou give me all that Thou hast created and shalt create, and make me sovereign over all who dwell in the kingdom of Thy Cause and creation, and seat me upon the throne of grandeur and power and the seat of loftiness and independence, yet deny me the sweet fragrances of Thy mercy and the breezes of Thy bounty for less than a moment - by Thy glory, my soul would not be content, my heart would not find peace, and my spirit would find no rest.   BH01072

By Thy might, O my Beloved! He who hath drunk the wine of Thy beauty will hope for naught save meeting Thee, and he who hath attained unto the remembrance of Thy love will find no rest save in reunion with Thee, and he who hath tasted the sweetness of Thy nearness, how can he be patient in Thy remoteness and separation? Nay, by Thy might! The hearts of the lovers will find no peace save in the precincts of Thy mercy, and the souls of the yearning ones will find no rest save beneath the shade of Thy providence.   BH01266

The whole world was created for the meeting with God, and all divine Books bear witness to this truth. Nevertheless, in the days of His manifestation all were heedless and turned away, save whom God willed. Today, those who have drunk from the wine of utterance and are gazing toward the horizon of the All-Merciful are mentioned before God as the gems of existence. They must know the value of this most great bounty and supreme gift, and cling to those means which cause and promote the exaltation of the Cause, that perchance the people of the world may not remain deprived of the Most Great Ocean and may attain their ultimate goal.   BH00550
How fortunate wert thou to have been confirmed and assisted in attaining the presence of the Court of Divine Unity.  AB12823
 
thou hast hastened from the wilderness of remoteness to the station of union and nearness, thou hast turned thy face away from all else but God, thou hast made the Sacred Threshold thy refuge and shelter  AB12826
 
Glad tidings unto thee, then glad tidings! Joy unto thee, then joy! Blessed art thou, then blessed art thou! Excellent art thou, then happiness unto thee! In this momentous day and wondrous time, when the fragrances of the garden of Ridvan and the breezes of the paradise of certitude have perfumed the nostrils of the spiritually-minded, and the divine fragrance hath made both East and West redolent with musk - when the sweet scent of the hallowed sanctuary hath bestowed life upon the nostrils of the yearning ones, and the fragrance of the blessed dust hath conferred ecstasy upon the minds of the spiritually-minded - no greater bounty could there be than attaining the presence of that holy ground and anointing one's eyes with the dust of that Most Great Threshold.  AB12829
 
You circumambulated the Sacred Shrine in utmost humility and submissiveness, and visited the Sacred Precinct in complete devotion and supplication. This circumambulation in the sacred court of Him Who is the Hidden Bestower of Favors is accepted and beloved, and gratitude for this acceptance is among the decisive obligations for those who are firmly grounded.  AB12840
 
