The world is in tumult and ferment, and humanity is intoxicated and bewildered. But their aims and conditions are different and diverse - one is inebriated from the overflowing divine cup, while another is drunk and proud from the wine of vanity. Some are dancing and rejoicing from the eternal wine of recognition, while others are unconscious and suffering from the deadly poison of heedlessness and error.  AB05695

When Mirza Aqa Khan was Prime Minister and held Iran under his control, he wished to trace his lineage to a famous person. One of the inhabitants of the village of Bukh traced his ancestry to Khwajih Abu-Salt-i-Harvi, who had a maidservant, and this family of Khwajih are descended from that Khwajih. The Prime Minister and his people all celebrated that "Praise be to God, we are descended from Khwajih Abu-Salt,"  AB09044

At that moment all who are in the heavens and on earth prostrated themselves before God, and the Holy Spirit breathed into the temples of the Concourse on High, and the Dove warbled in the midmost heart of eternity, and all necks bowed down before His command, while the proud were in the fire of hell and grievous peril  BH11053

What troubles they endure for the sake of name and fame!   ABU3015

he is proud and preoccupied, and will not take heed at present.  ABU3759

The self-satisfied learned ones were deprived of the bounties of God   AB07226

He forbids pride and arrogance, which is the foundation of all vices   AB03634

souls remain heedless, preoccupied with selfish desires and drowned in pride   ABU2833

Notwithstanding this infinitesimal smallness how proud, haughty is he of his origin!  ABU2797

Put away the garment of vainglory, and divest yourselves of the attire of haughtiness.  BH00113

"Negligence overtook him and he became so proud that he would not even speak with me."   ABU1528

there is another man who sits down, talks continually and boasts of his past achievements   ABU2938

Those heedless and proud souls imagined that they had some merit and worthiness of their own   ABU2716

Rather, they fell into heedlessness and pride and did not appreciate the value of these bounties.  ABU2819

The moment he considers himself good and says, "I am perfect", he falls into pride and retrogresses.  ABU2543

"On the other hand, the moment he aspires to personal greatness, he falls into disgrace and oblivion."  ABU3459

People speak too much because they seek fame, because they wish to be thought better than their brethren.  ABU2032

Pride is the greatest sin - perhaps the only sin - leading to every other evil  ABU1473

There are some people who desire to wallow in the mud but they believe they are the world-illuminating Suns.  ABU2348

However, in the days of the Most Great Luminary others wrote, referring to themselves, as the great sun of God.   ABU2995

Here is the pivot around which the pride of this people revolves! Observe what things men vaunt themselves over!  ABU3686

We beseech Him to guide such souls as have drunk the wine of pride and are heedless of that which profiteth them.   BH05636

yet they have grown proud against the All-Informed One. Thus have We been treated by those who pride themselves on knowledge   BH09255

Sheikh As'ad had said that this Mirza Muhammad Ali is so weighty with his pride that when he sits down, he does not rise again.  ABU2592

forbidding pride and haughtiness, which is the root of all vices, and calling to submission, which is the mother of all virtues   AB03943

pride and haughtiness will take possession of one's heart and this will cause deprivation of the bounties of the Court of Singleness  AB11285

Those souls who considered themselves the most learned, distinguished and accomplished were not and are not mentioned in the presence of God.  BH10020

O My creation! Be not proud before Him at Whose face the countenances of the Concourse on High bow down in adoration, and be not of the arrogant ones.  BH11742

All nobles harbor desires for greatness and the melancholy of soaring ambition, that they might become exalted in the world or become leaders of others  AB04686

Vanity is a form of egotism, an excessive desire for notice or approval of one's personal appearance or deeds. It is self-conceit and self-hypnotization.  ABU2908

souls who have spent a hundred years studying and discussing sciences and arts have been entirely deprived of divine bounties due to pride and arrogance   AB11755

Since in recent times some have become somewhat proud and have attributed this blessing and bounty to their own wisdom and efforts, therefore confusion has appeared  AB09151

The crow was greatly pleased with this flattery and opening its beak started its cow-cow and the cheese dropped on the ground to the delight of the waiting jackals.   ABU1855

There are today so many people who are like that old woman. They love inane flattery and empty compliments which are no other than nets to snare unsuspecting people.  ABU1094

Mulla 'Ali of Kand, who carried volumes of books and for years acquired sciences and arts which, in his own estimation, others were incapable and powerless to acquire, did not attain to the recognition of God, glorified be His majesty, and remained fixed and established in his own error.  BH10051

In any cycle or time someone has shown pride. In the time of Christ it was Judas. In the days of the Blessed Perfection, Subhi Ezel. Now it is the head of the Nakazeen.   ABU1559

But they did not listen. Rather, they were intoxicated with the wine of pride, saying "We are of the lineage of the Kayanis! We are the descendants of Rustam the mighty!"  AB03672

How many souls there are who have considered and still consider themselves the most exalted of creatures, unaware that they were and are not even mentioned in the presence of God.   BH07321

Then at this time the fire of pride and arrogance blazed up in their hearts and their lofty station became the cause of their exaggeration regarding the Beauty of the All-Knowing King   BH01510

Since in recent times some have become somewhat proud and have attributed this blessing and bounty to their own wisdom and efforts, therefore confusion has appeared so that they might awaken  AB09151

As soon as he began to see himself, to think of himself he was fallen. The action which in the least connotes existence, pride, self-projection is human and not accepted by the Lord of mankind.  ABU1228

Each became a mighty Pharaoh and a severely arrogant Nimrod. They were wholly deprived of the favors of the Day of Resurrection and were rendered hopeless of the gifts of the All-Forgiving Lord.  AB12409

With all their power and strength they strive to secure themselves in their petty pursuits, fearful lest the least discredit undermine their authority or blemish the display of their magnificence.  BH00002

Moreover, take ye good heed not to be reckoned among those of the past who were invested with knowledge, yet by reason of their learning waxed proud before God, the Transcendent, the Self-Subsisting  BB00365

He [Kheirullah] wished to be made the leader of America and wrote plainly to me to this effect. One of the answers I gave him was, 'Cast aside all mention of the ruler and the ruled, the governor and the governed.'  ABU2987

Whenever thou seest that a person feels to the measure of one atom superior to another or prefers himself to his brother or sister have no hope in him. He is deprived of the Bounties and Mercies of God.   ABU3076

Through the composition of two words or the expression of vain imaginings, pride seizes him such that he becomes deprived of the ocean upon ocean of tenderness and mercy from the Truth, exalted be His glory.   BH01055

Their ultimate desire and goal is that when they give speeches or pass through streets, people clap for them and they take pride in outward honor...all of it is for displaying their own personality and fame.   ABU0548

"One must not think of becoming a leader. If anyone imagines himself the possessor of this or that high quality, and of certain superior powers not possessed by others, this will fill him with pride and haughtiness."   ABU0467

A clergy, assuming that he is ordained to his ministry he may think that he knows more about God, while the humble man in his congregation may know more. This sacerdotal and theological position makes many a clergy proud and haughty!   ABU2599

The heedless ones of that realm are audacious, and the ignorant ones of that land are proud and vainglorious. Their agitation and clamor arise from their fear lest their standing and respect be lost and they become abased and despised.  AB02287

Mirza Aqa Jan has become presumptuous before His Blessed Person and has said, 'I have labored more for You than His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab], and You do not appreciate my labors.' The Blessed Beauty has become deeply grieved.  ABU3647

Some of the kings exhibited pride, one was the Ottoman king, Abdul Aziz Khan...You proclaimed once that you were a defender of the oppressed, but it becomes evident that you are not; rather, you magnify your own selfish desires and passions   ABU1415

The letter received from that known individual is steeped in pride and vanity... And in the Tablet of the Temple He explicitly states: "We chose one of our brothers and elevated him to a station where pride and arrogance seized him, therefore We returned him"   AB03573

Consequently, such behavior can be attributed to naught save the petty-mindedness of such souls as tread the valley of arrogance and pride, are lost in the wilds of remoteness, walk in the ways of their idle fancy, and follow the dictates of the leaders of their faith.  BH00002


One must always search for his own shortcomings so that he may repent at the Threshold of Oneness and become protected and guarded; otherwise, pride and haughtiness will take possession of one's heart, and this will cause deprivation of the Bounties of the Court of Singleness.  AB10604

The objective point of another soul is to attain the highest official position. He strives day and night to gain the confidence of the public and the administrative authorities, so that they may promote him, through his merit, to the position of honour and fame among his fellow-men.   ABU1102

Among men is he who maketh his religion his world and it preventeth him from the straight path, and among them is he who maketh his asceticism his world while he remaineth in heedlessness and error, and among them is he who maketh his poverty the world itself while remaining unaware of his condition.   BH03122

Certain statements proceeded from thee which were unworthy. Although at the time of thy presence thou wert counseled to speak naught but the truth and to become not the cause of people's perplexity, yet didst thou utter that which caused the people to be veiled, and at no time didst thou speak the truth.  BH01870

God forbid if a person is overtaken with pride. When a person becomes prideful, first he becomes self-centered. That is, he believes all his doings are correct and the best way. Secondly he causes dissension. His inner thoughts are then in conflict with his behavior, and this results in his quick demise.   ABU0595

There are some people who become proud and haughty and forget this fact. In their utter blindness they consider themselves to be somebody; then they fall from their high pedestal and great is the noise thereof.   ABU2109

And let not the ignorant among the people cling to these words and step into the arena of pride and vainglory, as hath been observed in some who, after being called for years to absolute wealth by the melodies of the Spirit, have finally claimed independence from the Truth. We seek refuge in God from this!   BH01827

They are blind but suppose themselves to have been endowed with the all-searching eyes of the Omnipotence. They are deaf but imagine the all-hearing ears of the Almighty have been granted them. They are mute but they surmise the life-giving tongue of Christ is theirs. Bootless and vain are their imaginations!  ABU2009

There are some people who would go any length, in order to gain fame and station. For the ephemeral fame of a few days they would be willing to give up their lives and yet it eludes them. There are others who do not even dream of it, who shun it and keep out of its way but it shows its face to then and court their grace.   ABU2093

There are some people who study for dress, work for dress, live for dress, walk for dress, eat for dress; in brief their lives are spent on the dresses, the clothes, the style, fashion and mode. To them the beginning and the end of creation is spelled in one word: "Dress." They believe that God has created them for "Dress."   ABU0711

Pride and haughtiness lord it over them and they become mere tools in the hands of sordid, fiendish passion. Wealth has a tempting and drawing quality. It bewilders the sight of its charmed victims with showy appearances and draws them on and on to the edge of yawning chasms. It makes a person self-centered, self-occupied, forgetful of God and of holy things.  ABU0700

Yet today thou mayest observe peoples who, in the temples and monasteries of the contingent world, would offer a thousand prostrations every minute, yet are steeped in pride, are haughty and obdurate. They have no knowledge whatsoever of submissiveness and humility before the threshold of the Self-Subsisting Lord, and they desire not to worship the King of the Kingdom.  AB09394

Beware lest anything prevent you from showing humility before God, and be not like unto him whose cause We exalted among the servants and whose mention We spread throughout the lands. Yet when he saw himself in glory and elevation, he waxed proud before Him Who created and fashioned him, reaching such a state that he opposed the Countenance and was neglectful of God's rights.   BH01132

Beware lest Thou become occupied with the mention of those from whom naught save the noisome savours of enmity can be perceived, those who are so enslaved by their lust for leadership that they would not hesitate to destroy themselves in their desire to emblazon their fame and perpetuate their names. God hath recorded such souls in the Preserved Tablet as mere worshippers of names.  BH00007

There are many people in this world who will go to the limit of doing anything, even in attacking the purity and the motives of their friends just to gain a temporary applause and Bravo without thinking of the ruinous effect of such a thing upon themselves in the future, and the loss of public confidence. ABU0943

But afterwards this question of precedence will assume superlative importance in the estimation of men which will lead to quarrel and acrimonious thrusts. Why this change? Because those sweet Fragrances of the Days of the Manifestation are withheld; the hearts became cold and negligent; the eyes became blind; the ears deaf; pride, haughtiness, superciliousness and arrogance grip fast the souls of men   ABU0778

Indeed, man is noble, for within all things the sign of God exists, but to regard oneself as more learned, superior, more excellent, more God-fearing and more exalted is a grievous error. Consider the divines of Persia - had they not regarded themselves as the most exalted and excellent of all creation, their unfortunate followers would not have engaged in cursing and denouncing the Object of all the worlds.   BH00472


Others became proud and haughty because they had received so many Tablets from Baha'u'llah or that they were favored by him during His life time... some heedless souls forgetting this point consider they are somebody and filled with deceit and ego became dictatorial and overbearing. Such people deprive themselves not only of the Bounties of God but little by little the friends lose their confidence and trust in them.  ABU0485

Yet with utmost pride they speak of political and social issues, violation of human dignity, and breach of divine laws. If only they had some knowledge of the political world and the relationships of social order! They are extremely egotistical and self-centered, yet completely unaware of human virtues and even of the sciences taught in schools. The height of their aspirations is to say "We studied in the advanced schools of Paris."   AB03249

Amongst the people is he who seateth himself amid the sandals by the door whilst coveting in his heart the seat of honour. Say: What manner of man art thou, O vain and heedless one, who wouldst appear as other than thou art? And among the people is he who layeth claim to inner knowledge, and still deeper knowledge concealed within this knowledge. Say: Thou speakest false! By God! What thou dost possess is naught but husks which We have left to thee as bones are left to dogs.  BH00001

During this counseling, Mirza Yahya made him self-centered and a change occurred in him. In any case, at the time when Mirza Aqa Jan should have attained the good-pleasure of the Blessed One, at the critical moment, he lost himself because he imagined that this elevated station was of his own doing. In his final days, his audacity had reached such a degree that he declared in the presence of the Blessed Beauty that even if the Bab had been in his place, He would not have endured it.   ABU1358

Similarly Nimrod the obstinate - what great cities he had, what a vast country he possessed, what a conquering army he commanded. And likewise Pharaoh who cried out Is not the kingdom of Egypt mine? and declared These rivers flow beneath. His pomp and dominion were boundless, his star was brilliant and radiant, yet in a brief time he was obliterated and destroyed for he sought to resist the truth. God repeatedly addressed such warnings in the Quran to proud peoples, and the purpose was this: O peoples, be not deluded by your hosts and armies, your canopy and standard. Be not deceived by your overwhelming might and dazzling glory. Days shall not pass before all these will be obliterated and destroyed like other peoples, for these nations are like waves that shall all eventually disappear.  ABU0301

Know, moreover, that should one who hath attained unto these stations and embarked upon these journeys fall prey to pride and vainglory, he would at that very moment come to naught and return to the first step without realizing it.  BH00012
