The Christian Church with its hierarchy of clerics has reversed Christ's and Paul's teaching of unity.   ABU3038

Fear thou God, but not the priest. Let thine abode be under the stone, but seek not the shelter of the cleric.  BH10203

the priests became self-centered and dishonest, were steeped in pride and became the source of all kinds of evil   AB04903

The priests are attached to ancient superstitions and when these are not in keeping with science, the priests denounce science.   ABU1902

priestcraft has discredited the religion of God, that the palpitating divine Idea is hidden under the encrustation of dead ecclesiasticism   ABU3057

It is also to the profit of the religious leaders to foster and uphold these spurious imitations because they keep their rule and sway intact.   ABU0761

We testify that they have been a barrier between God and His loved ones. The Tongue of Grandeur beareth witness to this in this exalted station.  BH01818

He has posed a question in the manner of the divines. Glory be to God! If only such souls possessed the understanding of even a lowly student in those filthy schools.   AB03573

When asked concerning the station of the "Pope" who recently departed this life, he answered: "His condition there, in the world of spirit, is the same as it was here. While here, his eyes were not opened to the real spiritual light, neither did he comprehend the real Truth of god. Thus, when he left the earth, his spiritual eyes were not opened, neither his spiritual ears. He occupied a great and exalted station in this world, inasmuch as he was chosen and elected by men to be a mediator between them and God.... ABU0931

Then know thou thyself to be more learned than those who have not entered the stronghold of My Cause, lest the pride of the turbaned ones who have disbelieved and associated partners with God cause thee to slip.   BH05298

This state of affairs can be attributed only to the mistakes made by the leaders of religion, who rather than serve as channels to promote the tenets of the religion of God, instead became the cause of hatred and ruin.  ABU3697

A clergy, assuming that he is ordained to his ministry he may think that he knows more about God, while the humble man in his congregation may know more. This sacerdotal and theological position makes many a clergy proud and haughty!   ABU2599

The religions of the past have fallen into decay on account of self-seeking leaders who in the course of time appropriated all the rights and powers unto themselves and looked down contemptuously upon the rest of their co-religionists as ignorant and deprived of the knowledge of God.  ABU0722

The Blessed Perfection has uptorn the root of the tree of superstitions and religious offices. In the past the ambitious leaders of religions have been the cause of the retrogression and ignorance of a nation. In this Cause there is no religious titles, no ceremonies of ordination. One is not respected simply because he wears a peculiar dress or carries a religious title or has inherited it from the Fathers.  ABU2150

Similarly, their meddling in political affairs resulted in their own abasement and degradation, for the more the priests opposed and interfered in matters of state, the more resentful the government and masses alike became of religion altogether -- and this resentment eventually grew so profound that all those priests were cast out from the seat of government in such a manner as to utterly humiliate and bewilder them.  ABU3675

If one searches into the truth about Christianity one finds that all these rules are from the Council, who borrowed from the ancient nations. This Council adopted twenty-one things from the ancient nations:... That the priests should not marry. The religious leader should have a private room in the church. The religious leaders may have the right to excommunicate. Sacrifice, which they had. Transubstantiation. The priest would take the bread and bless it and bless also the wine and would give it to the people of the church. The clergy should have political as well as religious authority. There are twenty-one things and among these is monogamy which was instituted by that Council, according to the ancient customs. ABU1407

They even considered the garb of the learned as a sign of piety and devotion, and took outward appearance as evidence of good character. They became sources of sedition and corruption in the verses of revelation. That is why the Blessed Beauty said: "Not every hat is a sign of ignorance, nor every turban a mark of knowledge. How many a hat has raised high the banner of knowledge, and how many a turban has cast down the law of God. If human excellence were measured by turbans, then the camel that carries a thousand turbans would have to be counted among the most learned of scholars."   ABU1249

Among the Popes there have indeed been some blessed souls who followed in the footsteps of Christ, particularly in the early centuries of the Christian era when earthly means were lacking and heaven-sent trials were severe. But when the means of temporal sovereignty were secured, and worldly honour and prosperity were obtained, the papal government entirely forgot Christ and occupied itself with earthly dominion and grandeur, with material comforts and luxuries. It put people to death, opposed the diffusion of learning, persecuted men of science, obstructed the light of knowledge, and gave the order to slay and to pillage. Thousands of people, men of science and learning and innocent souls, perished in the prisons of Rome.   AB00256
