the Covenant of the Luminary of the horizons, which is from the day of "Am I not?" until the endless evening - it had no beginning and will have no end.  AB06301

The Ancient Physician healeth the nations with a sovereign remedy that penetrateth the nerves and veins - a pure, sufficient and healing elixir. It quickeneth the soul, its joy dispelleth grief; it revealeth the realities of divine mysteries; it illumineth the heart and maketh it merciful; it transformeth the breast into a divine mirror and the eyes into the seat of the presence of the Eternal. It is healing to the breast and light unto the eyes; it is the mystery of divine attributes and names. Its chalice is the primal, timeless Cup of Alast; its wine is the crimson Wine of the Supreme Covenant; its Cupbearer is the Abha Beauty. AB06500


O loved ones of God! The lamp of the Covenant is the light of the world, and its reality the gift of splendour; the star of the Testament is a shining moon, and the words traced by the Pen of the Most High a limitless ocean. The Lord, the All-Glorified, hath, beneath the shade of the Tree of Anisa (Tree of Life), made a new Covenant and established a great Testament. He hath summoned everyone to the loving embrace of His Beauty and announced unto all the revelation of His manifest verses.   AB00121

This is the Covenant and Testament which the Blessed Beauty established through the Supreme Pen in the Holy Land under the shade of the Tree of Anisa and which was promulgated after the Ascension.  AB11387

cause mine ears to hear the call of 'Am I not your Lord?'  AB09428

Glory be to our Most Glorious Lord Who took the Covenant in the primal world of atoms   AB02854

Now become intoxicated and enraptured from the brimming cup of the Covenant of "Am I not your Lord?"  AB10642

Blessed are those persons who have become intoxicated from the joyous cup of the Primordial Covenant   AB07242

Say: O people of God! Did I not make a covenant with you that ye should worship none but God, my Lord?  BB00004

We created creation for this Day and took from them its covenant through the tongues of those Whom We sent   BH06933

seek the rapture of God's Covenant, that you may tell of the trust of the Primordial Day of "Am I not your Lord?"  AB10346

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst take from all Thy servants a covenant concerning Thyself in Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets   BH10503

when she heard the divine call and tasted a draught of love's sweetness from the cup of Thy bounty, she beat the drum of "yea" in response to "am I not your Lord?"  AB10871

But praise be to God, you became privy to the Primordial Covenant, raised the cry of "yea," and circumambulated the Most Great Sanctuary, chanting "here am I."   AB02860

This is of thy Lord's bounty, for that thou didst say, on the Day when God, thy Lord, said: Am I not your Lord? Yea, glory be unto Thee! There is no God but Thee!  BB00004

For the covenant of Am I not your Lord? was well known and universal, and yet all forgot it, save for a handful of souls more scarce than the philosopher's stone.  AB06228

Through Thee have We gathered together all created things, whether in the heavens or on the earth, and called them to account for that which We had covenanted with them before the foundation of the world.  BH00007

Fear God Who created you for His Revelation and took from you His covenant in the atoms of the Bayan, and before that in the atoms of the Furqan, and before that in the atoms of the Gospel, until it reacheth the primal atoms.   BH00853

The truth in reality is that existence in all ranks is created with free choice, for the question Am I not your Lord? falls only upon one who has choice, as indicated by the words of the Sovereign, the All-Choosing: There is nothing that does not glorify His praise.  BB00366

"Call ye to mind that covenant ye have entered into with Me upon Mount Paran, situate within the hallowed precincts of Zaman." This is the Covenant and Testament which the Blessed Beauty took in the Holy Land by the Supreme Pen in the shade of the Tree of Anisa, and which was announced after His Ascension.  AB09643

O thou who art intoxicated with the wine of the Divine Covenant! The Day of "Am I not?" is the Day of Manifestation. It is the hour of resurrection and revival. It is the time of the revelation of light. It is the moment of effulgence upon Sinai and the Mount. It is the Most Great Resurrection and the Supreme Catastrophe, when that Sun of Reality shines forth from the horizon of possibility and sheds its bounties upon the kingdoms of creation. From its heat, radiance and effulgence, the mysteries in the soil of the realities of beings become manifest, and from the grace and bestowal of its tear-shedding cloud, the fruits of every tree become visible. The realities of all that greatest cycle are resurrected on that blessed Day before the Merciful One, and all are included in the address "Am I not?" The divine covenant and testament is taken, and the merciful faith and pledge is received, so that complete attachment to this firm cord may be achieved and perfect adherence to this divine and unbreakable handle may be attained. AB05701

O My Friends! Have ye forgotten that true and radiant morn, when in those hallowed and blessed surroundings ye were all gathered in My presence beneath the shade of the tree of life, which is planted in the all-glorious paradise? Awestruck ye listened as I gave utterance to these three most holy words: O friends! Prefer not your will to Mine, never desire that which I have not desired for you, and approach Me not with lifeless hearts, defiled with worldly desires and cravings. Would ye but sanctify your souls, ye would at this present hour recall that place and those surroundings, and the truth of My utterance should be made evident unto all of you.  BH00113

O My Friends! Call ye to mind that covenant ye have entered into with Me upon Mount Paran, situate within the hallowed precincts of Zaman. I have taken to witness the concourse on high and the dwellers in the city of eternity, yet now none do I find faithful unto the covenant. Of a certainty pride and rebellion have effaced it from the hearts, in such wise that no trace thereof remaineth. Yet knowing this, I waited and disclosed it not.  BH00113
