

"The Will hath appeared and the Manifestation of God's decree, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, hath come. And verily it speaketh in the contingent world in human form"   BH04491

The world of Command is the station of the Primal Will which is a universal reality that is resolved into infinite forms.   AB00538

cling to the hem of the grace of this Most Great Remembrance, Who hath come with the truth   BH10101

I am carried back to such heights that I recognize my self to be the same as the remembrance of Thee in Thy realm, and the essence of Thy praise among Thy servants. As long as that self endureth, so long will Thy praise continue to be shed abroad among Thy creatures and Thy remembrance glorified by Thy people.   BH02872

He is the Remembrance from God to give you glad tidings of His promise and to warn you of His vengeance, and He is the One concealed in the Mother Book, preserved at the Point of Fire according to what was in the mystery of the Book. He is the Remembrance before you, to your right, and to your left, by God's leave in truth, that people might be mentioned in truth around the Gate through the wondrous verses in this Book.  BB00002

Then, by His absolute will, He placed its reins, by permission of a Manifestation, within the grasp of power of a trusted one. Such is the decree of the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH10338

Christ is the Word. Now what may this mean? The sign of the Word of Christ is the Divine Virtues: the sign of the Messianic Word is the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. The Word means Divine Perfection, Heavenly Bestowals.   ABU1345

Therefore, as Christ conveyed the perfect meaning of divine reality and embodied independent significance, He was the Word. He was as the station of reality compared to the station of metaphor. The reality of Jesus was the perfect meaning, the Christhood in Him which in the Holy Books is symbolized as the Word.   ABU0385

Every Prophet, from Adam to Baha'u'llah, has shown Himself to be the Logos, (Gospel of John, chapter I), the Demiurge, the Manifestation, the Emanation of the All-Highest Godhead; the Prophet proves His God-given creative power by producing a book, the letters and numerical values of which represent a counterplay (reflection) of transcendent reality.... His Holiness the Bab has found from counting the letters of the phrase: Bismi'llahi'r-Rahmani'r-Rahim that the number 19 represents the mystic basic number of the cosmos (universe). This mystic basic number 19 at the same time represents the Logos, the Manifestation, the Emanation of God, which can at the same time be designated by the "bi" or the point (nuqtih) under the "bi". The Great One - the absolute Godhead (God the Father) in its unfoldment and development of numbers unfolds into the cosmos, the plurality of appearances.  ABU0227

Christ was the Word of God, the Holy Spirit.  ABU1516

We had made mention of remembrance and its degrees, and We shall praise it again. Then there emerged from the luminous chamber a countenance in the form of a heavenly maiden, and she asked about remembrance and its station. Then another countenance emerged and said: "Verily it is the fire of the love of God, and when it appeared on the Mount of Beauty, the Most Exalted Word was revealed in the form 'There is no God but I, the Powerful, the Imprisoned.'" BH05309

The Primal Light hath appeared in the Final Day. His is the Word - hear it!  BH01362

Thus hath the Originator brought forth His Word, and He is God, powerful over all things   BB00158

The Word of God is Love. It has gathered us together to partake of material and spiritual food.  ABU1183

Is there any doubt about God, or about His signs which have been sent down from the heaven of Command   BH03552

"The Word manifested in Jesus is Divine Knowledge. The Knowledge of God is inseparable from the Reality of God."  ABU2479

The world hath been set ablaze by the Fire that hath been kindled from the Tree of God's Command, the Lord of all worlds.   BH01616

This is the Word whereby the realities of all things were raised up and through which the Prophets and Messengers were sent forth.   BH02736

He hath created the Word in the form of man, and through it He hath drawn all worlds unto Him. He who is not attracted by the Word of God cannot truly be said to exist.   BH02095

Glorified be He Who sendeth down whatsoever He willeth through His command, manifesting it at one time in the form of spirit, then in the frame of a body, then as a physical form   BH02405

The remembrance of God is a leaf among His leaves, and verily His remembrance hath preceded all worlds. Were it not for His remembrance, none would have known Him to remember Him.   BH06526

the Primal Point Who was made manifest in the year sixty is verily the Word of God and His sovereignty, and the wisdom of God and His proof, and the Command of God and His splendor   BH01631

Say: I have come from the Orient of the Command to give life to all who are on earth. Fear God, O people, and follow not those who have denied their Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH02635


The Sun of Truth is the Word of God, upon which depends the training of the people of the city of inner meanings and utterance. It is the true spirit and the spiritual water through whose aid and bounty all things have had and will have life.   BH04673

He is the Primal Will and the Most Exalted Word, through which God hath caused His splendor to shine forth through its own self, and hath cast into its essence the example of its revelation. He hath manifested it in every dispensation through the utmost of what is possible therein  BB00003

The reason we call Christ the Word, is because we human beings, compared to Him, are like letters, and He as a word. A word has a complete meaning, whereas a letter has not. A letter has not an independent meaning: likewise all members in a political body have not a distinct status. A word always gives one the idea of something with a complete meaning, an independent meaning.   ABU1345

This Word hath been God's balance amongst His servants and the straight path for people of insight and guidance. In one station this Word hath been called by all the most beautiful names, and in another station it hath been sanctified from all, for the Manifestation and Dawning-Place of the Word hath been the Divine Manifestation among creation. And in another station the Word itself is the Manifestation.   BH05024

He it is Who sent down the Book wherein He hath detailed all that ye know not, and He shall continue to expound the truth and send down the Command as He willeth, were ye to understand. He hath taught all things the measures of knowledge according to their capacity, were ye to know, and He shall continue to teach His servants from the wonders of knowledge, for He is verily the Sovereign, the Compassionate.  BH00084

God willing, may all attain unto the eternal bounty which in one instance hath been interpreted as the Divine Word. This exalted Word hath been recorded by the Most Exalted Pen in the Crimson Book: "Blessed is the soul that hath attained unto the Word of God in His days," for whosoever attaineth unto divine mention, that mention appeareth as a lamp before his face, manifest, evident, bright and visible in all the worlds.   BH01500

And unless one fixeth his gaze upon the inmost reality of all things, which is the spirit of his heart, he will not comprehend the true realisation of, Behold! Verily the Word of God is true, that it is by the very utterance of the Word that the true thing acquireth truth and reality in its inmost reality. This sublime creative meaning is confined to God, glorified and exalted be Him, inasmuch as none besides Him is the Creator, the Provider, the Slayer, and the Quickener of things.  BB00001

Know that His word encompasses all things and flows through all worlds, for speech is a manifestation among the manifestations of the Speaker. God, exalted be He, made it the manifestation of His encompassing nature and His revelation, and of all His appearances, for the Essence alone encompasses itself, and He is the Encompasser and nothing encompasses Him.  BB00151
