
Nighttime is for resting and comfort, and the day must be devoted to work, industry and earning a living. All animals sleep after sunset. Children, following their innate nature, go to sleep as soon as they drink their evening milk or eat their supper. What God has created has the utmost balance, but man corrupts His ways. "There does not exist in the contingent world better than what is created."   ABU0546

For all things there is fixed a station, measure and limit.   BH07326

for any matter that reaches its ultimate degree must then decline.   ABU2129

"The more the souls advance in material things and the more they act with moderation, the more they can acquire capacity for spirituality."  ABU2137

However, do not set aside wisdom. Grand displays and demonstrations cause envy and tumult among the deniers. It is better to observe moderation.   AB03403

"However, do not let go of wisdom and do not tear away the veil. Moderation in all things is desirable so that it does not cause the jealousy and envy of others"  AB03671

O God, grant moderation and bestow balance... Neither should excessive reason and culture prevent the diffusion of accepted fragrances, nor should artful, chain-breaking madness be beloved.  AB03263

For in the contingent world, the life and salvation of everything depends on moderation and timely action, while its death and destruction comes from exceeding moderation and untimely action.  ABU2063

Moderation should be practiced in all things. Be temperate, even in the size of the ships you build and in their speed; in your railroads and the schedules you expect your trains to maintain.   ABU3029

If one is fully cognizant of the reason for the incursion of disease and can determine the balance of elements, he can cure diseases by administering the food that can restore the normal level of the deficient element.   ABU3275


When fate approaches, be not elated, and when it retreats be not saddened, and when it smiles do not laugh, and when it frowns and darkens do not be disturbed or anxious. You must practice moderation, you must rely on God, you must be balanced.  AB04931

There should be the perfect balance, the spiritual and the physical. A man whose ideal side only is developed is also imperfect. We do not deprecate comfort. If I could find a better house than this I would certainly move into it. But man should not think of comfort alone.   ABU1926


Moderation is necessary in all things, for if strength exceedeth its bounds it turneth into weakness. O friends! The Most Exalted Pen counseleth you and biddeth you to that which exalteth the Word of God and uplifteth souls. Hold fast unto moderation in all conditions and speak with equity in all matters.  BH11709

However, absolute equality is just as untenable, for complete equality in wealth, power, commerce, agriculture and industry would result in chaos and disorder, disrupt livelihoods, provoke universal discontent, and undermine the orderly conduct of the affairs of the community. For unjustified equality is also fraught with peril. It is preferable then that some measure of moderation be achieved.   AB00099

Neither compulsion nor complete free will, neither constraint nor dominion. "The truth lies between the two extremes" means that existence is bestowed by God but the performance of deeds comes from creation... This is the meaning of "between the two extremes."   AB04687

Moderation is necessary in all affairs. Man must take a lesson from Divine actions and deeds, for God causes a tree to bear fruit over a long period, though He is able to make it bear fruit in an instant, but wisdom requires gradual development.  AB11424
