This is the day of teaching. Nothing else will profit us.   ABU2936

Today nothing will benefit man in the world of existence except the promotion of the Cause of God!  ABU1739

If the meetings or Spiritual Assembly has any other occupation, the time is spent in futility. All the deliberations, all consultation, all the talks and addresses must revolve around one focal center and that is: TEACH THE CAUSE! TEACH! TEACH! Convey the Message! Awaken the souls!   ABU1716

If, during the seed-sowing time, we want to gather the harvest, we shall fail. If, at the time of irrigating, we desire to do something else, failure will be the result. Now, this is the Divine season of seed-sowing. Every Bahai must become a heavenly cultivator. If, at this season, he performs the prayers of all the past and future ages, it will yield no fruit.  ABU1958

While we are carrying this load we cannot carry any other load! Now is the time of laying the foundation. Now must we gather brick, stone, wood, iron, and other building materials! Now is not the time of decoration. We must strive day and night and think and work. What can I say that may become effective? What can I do that may bring results? What can I write that may bring forth fruits? Nothing else will be useful, today. The interests of such a Glorious Cause will not advance without undivided attention.   ABU1061

Yes, to look after the weak and to teach the children and to take care of the poor and to administer the internal affairs are all existing work, yet they should not be given such attention that teaching the Faith will be forgotten and the affairs of the teaching spheres be left aside. Nay, the work of teaching the Cause should be performed and training the Baha'i teachers should be instituted and they should be dispatched far and wide to all parts of the world and to all peoples of humanity. Literature of Baha'i proofs and sacred thoughts should be produced and published for the propagation of the Cause. Then after the world has come under the shadow of the Word of God, the accomplishment of other things follows.  ABU0992

Today the greatest of all matters is the diffusion of the divine fragrances. The handmaidens of the Merciful in Tehran must turn to the Abha Kingdom, seek abundant confirmation, engage in promoting the divine teachings, and forget all else besides this. For all else causes headache, wastes time, and is a futile preoccupation whose result is lethargy and idleness. The work of teaching is important - to this they must hold fast and nothing else.  AB04883

