Rejoice, rejoice, O Children of Israel, in the grace of the Manifestation of the Glorious Lord!  BH03775

O people of Moses! This is the Day whereof God's Messengers gave you tidings aforetime. Fear ye God, and be not of the heedless.  BH00333

Say to the concourse of the Jews: Your appointed time hath been fulfilled - where then is the Promised One? Bring Him forth if ye be of the learned!  BH03615

O people of the Torah, the signs of God have filled the horizons while you remain in doubt and discord. How long will you play with your vain imaginings?   BH06673

O children of the Friend! He Who speaks from this manifest horizon says: O My Most Exalted Pen! Make mention of the children of My Friend and the heirs of My Interlocutor...  BH02268

O inheritors of Moses! Hear the call of the Lord of Hosts which hath been raised in the world of creation from the prison of Akka, summoning you to His most glorious horizon.  BH02127

And Moses calls out: "He Whose beauty I was prevented from beholding has appeared. Hasten, O people of the Torah, unto the good-pleasure of God, the Almighty, the All-Choosing."   BH04373

Say: O concourse of the Torah! The Friend hath appeared and the Interlocutor hath come, both giving glad tidings of that which hath appeared and shone forth from the horizon of God's Will   BH05178

Call out to Zion, O Carmel, and announce the joyful tidings: He that was hidden from mortal eyes is come! His all-conquering sovereignty is manifest; His all-encompassing splendor is revealed.  BH02324

Say: O Concourse of the Torah! The Revealer of verses hath come and the breezes of revelation have seized the hearts of them that are near unto God. Fear ye God and be not of the heedless ones.   BH07375

O children of the Friend and heirs of Him Who conversed with God! It behooveth you to cast away all that existeth in the world, taking hold of that which hath come to you from God, the Lord of all names.  BH08490

Say: O people of the Torah! He Who revealed the verses hath come, He Who was promised to you in God's Tablets, if ye be of them that understand. He judgeth from David's throne and calleth you unto the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH00876

At times We address the company of the Torah and call them to the Revealer of verses Who hath come from the presence of the Lord of all men. We say: The Most Great Law hath come, and the Ancient Beauty ruleth upon the throne of David.   BH00898

Say: The promised God declareth: O concourse of Jews! Ye were of Me and appeared from Me and unto Me shall ye return. What hath come over you that ye know Me not now, though I have appeared with all the signs? Ye have taken enemies for friends and have lost the True Friend.  BH02080

O people of the Torah! The Revealer of verses hath come and the Mount crieth out: "Ye have attained unto the Presence!" And the Tree exclaimeth: "O people of the earth! Open your eyes, for this is your Lord Who was promised by the tongue of them that drew nigh and of the Messengers."  BH04107

Today the Covenant of Israel is renewed, and We have made firm covenants with your fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. O Children of Israel and heirs of Abraham and Moses! Today Jerusalem crieth out with most eloquent speech "The All-Merciful hath come!" and in the wilderness declareth "Here am I! Here am I!" Deprive not yourselves.   BH02221

O Ezekiel! The Glorious One hath come, and the Friend is at His right hand, calling: "O people of the Torah! The Revealer of verses hath come with clear evidences. Beware lest what ye possess prevent you from Him by one of Whose revelations the dwellers of Sinai were thunderstruck and the limbs of the righteous did tremble, save him whom the hand of power did rescue and raise to the most exalted station."  BH00320

O people of the Torah! By God! The Ten Words have been revealed in a single Word, and all things do speak forth this day: "Blessed be the Lord of Names Who hath revealed Himself among His people and in His realm, and honored Moses with His presence and appearance before His countenance." Blessed be the city wherein the call of the Beloved was raised, and the synagogue wherein His glorious Name was mentioned.   BH00461

Praise be to God that in this Most Great Cycle the glance of grace encompasses Israel so that all the promises of the Prophets regarding them may be fulfilled in the world of existence and witness. O friends of Israel! His Holiness Moses offers praise in the Kingdom of sanctification for your enkindlement and attraction, and the denizens of the realm of might offer commendation, and the divines offer description, and the Concourse on High cry out at every moment "Blessed are ye! Blessed are ye!"   AB01604

Then turn thy gaze unto the concourse of the Torah and say: He hath come unto you - the Sovereign of Names and Attributes, within Whose grasp lieth the kingdom of verses, and there hath appeared at His right hand that which was promised unto you of the House of David. Indeed, He is the Promised One in your midst, and now He calleth unto you from the right of the throne of your Lord, the Loving. O concourse of the Jews! How long will ye slumber upon the couch of ignorance and heedlessness? Lift up your heads, for lo! the Sun hath risen from the horizon of majesty and hath reached its zenith. Be illumined by its light and be not of them that are veiled.   BH00425
