O peoples of the earth! The Day of God is come.   BH04955

O concourse of the earth! Open your eyes! By God, the Promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come with such sovereignty as none in the heavens or on earth can withstand. Abandon the books of idle fancies and vain imaginings. The Book of God hath been sent down; verily it guideth you unto His straight Path.  BH05572

all things have proclaimed: "The Sovereign hath come!"  BH11419

O concourse of men! The Lord of all religions hath come.   BH07015

O peoples of the earth! By God, God hath come with His glory  BH06874

We have summoned the whole world through the Most Great Name.   BH05974

O people! Follow Him Who hath come to you with manifest sovereignty   BH09007

O peoples of the world! Hearken unto the call of the Lord of eternity.   BH07919

O people! By God, this is the Day of God, were ye of them that know  BH08984

O people! The Promised One hath come! He is verily the One Who spoke on Sinai.  BH10109

O people of the earth! The Lord of Heaven hath come with the Kingdom of Names   BH06966

"This is the Day whereon the Most Great Name calleth aloud amidst the nations"  BH05554

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the Call, and be not of the heedless ones.   BH06142

O peoples of the earth! The Day hath come wherein God hath fulfilled His promise   BH07979

Come ye! Come ye! Hasten! Hasten, O dwellers of earth, with your hearts and souls!  BH08479

"O dwellers of earth! Hearken unto the call of your Lord, the Lord of all beings."   BH10053

The Wronged One of the world calleth out from the Most Great Prison unto all nations   BH08445

O peoples of the earth! Adorn your temples with the ornament of tranquility and dignity.  BH05482

"He Who is the Ancient King hath come! The Kingdom is God's, the Almighty, the All-Choosing!"  BH05248

O people! Answer Him Who calleth you unto God, then cast away what ye possess of idle fancies.   BH05341

O concourse of earth and heaven! Fear ye the Lord of all mankind, and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH06019

The Promised One hath come with the truth. Fear God, O people, and be not of the wrongdoers.  BH08079

O people! By God the Truth, the appointed time is fulfilled and the All-Bestowing One is come   BH09982

O peoples of the earth, cast behind you every command and then follow Him Who speaks with truth.   BH07815

O concourse of creation! Hearken unto that which the Lord of Names proclaimeth from His Prison in 'Akka.  BH06875

O peoples of the earth, hearken unto the call of the Lord of Names! Verily He hath appeared with the truth  BH06738

O people! The Day hath come. Arise to help your Lord, the Most Exalted, the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH04943

O people! Abandon what ye possess and turn toward the Most Exalted Horizon, if ye be of them that know.  BH08361

O people! The Hour hath come and the Resurrection hath appeared. Blessed are they who are endued with vision.  BH09005

O people! The Self-Subsisting hath come and saith: Beware, O peoples of the earth, lest ye deprive yourselves   BH04299

O people of earth! Be fair in the Cause of God and be not of the transgressors. He hath come for your salvation.  BH07348

By God! The Most Great Gate hath been opened before the face of the nations in the name of the Lord of eternity  BH11425

O people! The sea is walking and beareth witness unto the Promised One, and the land proclaimeth: The Day hath come   BH08960

O peoples of the earth, come ye, come ye, that I may cause you to hear the call of God and show you His Supreme Horizon  BH07238

O concourse of creation! This is the Day of Bounty when the Creator of the heavens hath come with the kingdom of names.  BH05287

O people, be fair in your judgment regarding this Light... Say: That which ye possess will profit you not this Day   BH04801

O people! The Promised One hath come unto you, if ye be of them that know, and the Hidden Mystery hath been revealed  BH02834

O concourse of humanity! Fear God, the Lord of destiny. He Who was hidden from eyes and concealed in hearts has appeared.   BH05006

O people of the world! The Ancient Lord Who hath manifested Himself through the Most Great Name bringeth you glad tidings.   BH03292

O peoples of the world! The Day of the Covenant has come, and He Who was hidden in the eternity of eternities has appeared.   BH07980

O peoples of the earth! We ask of you no recompense in this Cause. We summon you, for the sake of God, unto a noble station.  BH06186

O concourse of the earth! By God, the Promise hath come to pass and the Promised One hath appeared with manifest sovereignty   BH08540

O peoples of the earth! By God, the Promise hath come, and He Who was promised calleth unto you from His most exalted horizon   BH05123

O peoples of the earth! The Lord of Heaven hath come with His kingdom of verses - turn ye unto Him, and be not of the heedless   BH07810

This is the Day whereon the Most Great Name calleth aloud among the nations and giveth them glad tidings of this Manifestation   BH05591

We have given glad tidings of this most mighty, most holy Cause and this most glorious, most exalted Revelation to all the world.   BH07530

Turn to Him, O people of the earth, then hearken to what descends from the heaven of His all-encompassing favors upon the worlds.   BH06425

Verily I say, it is incumbent upon the peoples of both the East and the West to obey My word and to pledge allegiance to My person.  BBU0004

O people! Hear My call and follow that which ye have been commanded in the Book of God. Then shun those who join partners with God.   BH02710

The Day hath come, yet most of the people remain heedless. The Call hath been raised in truth, yet most of the people remain asleep.  BH06629

O peoples of creation! The Manifestation of your Lord, the Lord of Names, hath come. Follow Him and follow not every rejected idolater.   BH04608

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the call from the direction of the Prison. He, verily, is none other than God, the Mighty, the Wise.  BH05166

O peoples of the world! The Lord of Eternity hath come with His Most Great Name and calleth you unto Him, if ye be of them that hearken.   BH09160

O people of earth and heaven! By God, He hath come through whom the eye of the world is illumined, yet the nations are in manifest doubt.  BH08517

O peoples of the earth! Abandon that which ye possess, in hope of that which is with God. Thus doth He Who speaketh the truth command you.   BH04965

O people! He hath appeared by one letter of Whom was created that which ye worship besides God, your Lord, the Most High, the All-Wise.  BH02745

O people of the earth! The Promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come, calling all unto God, the Sovereign Lord of existence.  BH08620

He calleth out with the most exalted call between earth and heaven, summoning all who dwell in the realm of creation to the supreme horizon.   BH03303

O peoples of the earth! The gate of divine generosity hath been opened in the Most Great Scene - turn ye unto it with humility and repentance.  BH03173

O peoples of the earth! Why do ye not arise from your seats, and by what proof have ye turned away from Him Who was promised in the Book?   BH08045

O concourse of earth! Hearken unto the Call that hath been raised from the direction of Akka, as a token of God's grace, the Lord of Lords   BH02171

the Manifestation of Revelation hath come and calleth out in the most exalted voice to all, young and old, inviting all to the supreme Paradise   BH04277

He summoneth the peoples unto the Most Great Name and announceth unto them that which hath been ordained for them by God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH06498

O people! He Who is the Intended One hath appeared and the proof hath been perfected. Hold fast unto God and follow not every ignorant remote one.   BH09365

O peoples of the world! Hearken unto the call of God, the Sovereign of eternity. Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Gracious.   BH07518

O peoples of the worlds! This is your Lord, the All-Merciful, Who has come with the truth - turn to Him with your hearts and be not of the heedless   BH02799

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the call of the Lord of Heaven. He summoneth you unto that which draweth you nigh unto the most exalted horizon   BH07347

O people! Turn ye unto the Supreme Horizon. By God! It hath been illumined by My Most Glorious Name, yet the people know not, save whom God willeth.   BH08988

O people! Cast aside your idle fancies and turn toward the Dayspring of certitude. Thus doth the All-Merciful command you, if ye be of them that know.  BH07172

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto the call of Him Who hath been wronged, then turn with radiant faces unto God, the Source of this clear utterance.   BH05925

"O people! By God, the Ancient of Days hath come with His Most Great Name, and all things cry out 'The Kingdom is God's, the Revealer of verses!'"  BH03342

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto the call of Him Who is the Lord of Names. He hath come with a sovereignty that the affairs of men cannot frustrate.  BH07103

O peoples of the earth! By God, the Hidden One has come and what was treasured in the Books of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, has been made manifest.  BH05462

O people of the earth! By God, the Lord of heaven hath come with manifest sovereignty. The earth hath been honored by His advent, would ye but understand.   BH04051

O peoples of the earth! By God, this is the Day whose mention was sent down in the Qur'an, the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.   BH03756

"O people of the earth! Fear ye God, and follow not your desires. Follow Him Who hath come unto you with the kingdom of proof from the All-Merciful."   BH03700

O concourse of creation! By God, the Lord of Names hath come with a sovereignty that the circumstances of creation cannot prevent nor can intimations veil.   BH06936

O peoples of the earth! The Most Great Name hath come, calling you unto the Supreme Horizon. Fear ye the Lord of all beings, and be not of the heedless ones.  BH06382

O people! The Lord of the Throne and of the dust hath come, and from all His parts, even unto the hair, thou hearest the most great signs of your Lord.   BH09584

O peoples of the earth! Fear God and dispute not His verses. Judge fairly concerning that which has been revealed in truth, and be not of the wrongdoers.  BH04402

O peoples of all religions! The Promised One hath come and through Him the horizon of the world is illumined. Turn ye unto Him and be not of the heedless ones.  BH08311

The command of your Lord, the All-Merciful, hath now come, and He hath manifested Me with clear proof and sent Me to those who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH04226

O peoples of the earth! The Most Great Key hath appeared and that which was hidden in God's knowledge hath been revealed, and I am the All-Seeing Witness.   BH05484

O people of the earth, be fair in the Cause of God and His sovereignty, and follow not the desires of those who have denied the Witness and the Witnessed.   BH05550

O peoples of the earth! Fear God and follow not those whom the world hath deluded with its vanities in such wise as to have debarred them from My straight Path.   BH09701

The Beloved of the world calls out from His Most Great Prison: "To Me, to Me, O peoples of earth and heaven! To Me, to Me, O ye who dwell in the Kingdom of names!"  BH07759

O people! Remember the favor of God when He shone forth upon you with His most excellent names and most exalted attributes. This is of His grace, did ye but know.   BH03536

O peoples of the worlds! How long will ye slumber upon the couch of heedlessness and desire? Lift up your heads - the Truth hath come with power and sovereignty.   BH05818

O peoples of the earth! Cast away what ye possess of idle fancies and vain imaginings. Take hold of that which ye have been commanded by God, the Revealer of verses.   BH05756

O peoples of the earth! By God, He hath appeared Who summoneth all unto God, the Lord of existence, and He hath come Who guideth all to the outstretched path of God.   BH05878

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto that which the Lord of Destiny proclaimeth from the Most Great Scene: "There is none other God but I, the Almighty, the All-Powerful."   BH09140

O people of the realm of creation! That which was spoken of in the Books of God hath appeared, and He for Whose manifestation and advent the worlds were created hath come.   BH04146

O peoples of the earth! Hear ye the call of the Wronged One from the precincts of the Prison. Verily, He draweth you nigh unto God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.  BH00342

O people of the world! Your Lord, the Most Merciful, hath made manifest the fragrances of the garment of glory throughout all worlds, and the Word of God hath been upraised   BH03936

Turn ye, O peoples of the earth, unto God, your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Beware lest the conditions of creation withhold you from the remembrance of the Truth.  BH07013

Fear God, O peoples of the earth! He Who was promised in the Psalms and Tablets has come, He Who was mentioned in the Scriptures of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH03465

The Speaker of Sinai hath come, and the Divine Lote-Tree before all faces proclaimeth: "Verily, I am God, there is none other God but Me, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting."  BH04249

O peoples of the earth! Fear ye God, and follow not every remote clamourer who hath cast away righteousness and taken up passion in following the imaginings of the heedless.   BH04090

O people! Oppose not Him Who hath come for your life, and turn not away from Him to Whom the All-Merciful hath testified in all conditions that He is the Goal of all worlds.   BH03730

O peoples of the earth, hearken unto My call and be not of the heedless ones. The promise hath come to pass and the Truth hath appeared - praise ye God for this great bounty.  BH05997

O people of the earth! Abandon what ye possess, for He hath come with manifest sovereignty. Nothing shall profit you today save through His bidding, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH08516

And the Herald has called out: "O people of earth! The gate of heaven has been opened and He Who was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, has come!"   BH04145

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto the call of the Wronged One, raised from the precincts of the prison, and be not of those who denied God's favor when it descended through grace  BH04221

O people of creation! He Who was mentioned in the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds, the Sovereign of heaven, hath come. The Day is come, but the people are in manifest darkness.   BH09161

O people of the earth! We make mention of you at a time when sorrows have encompassed Us through that which the hands of the deniers of this blessed and manifest Light have wrought.   BH07170

"O people of the earth, fear God and follow not the desires of those who have denied God's Proof and His Testament, and have rejected that which the Lord of all beings hath brought."  BH05835

O people! He Who was promised in the Books of God and concealed from His servants has come. Thus did the Tongue of Grandeur speak as He walked in His sacred and luminous place.   BH03531

O concourse of men! The call hath been raised from the Most Great Scene, and before it in the land of Ta, and after it in Zawra, then in the Land of Mystery, and in this Great Prison.   BH05233

O peoples of earth and heaven! The Hidden One hath come with manifest sovereignty. Turn ye unto Him with radiant faces, and follow not the sources of idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH04948

O people! By God, the All-Bestowing One hath come with a sovereignty before which neither the hosts of the heavens nor of the earth can stand. Fear ye God and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH06043

O people of the earth, set aside what ye possess. By God! God hath come with manifest sovereignty. Blessed is the handmaid who hath heard and attained, and woe unto every doubting servant.   BH09985

O peoples of the earth! By God, verily the Book hath appeared in the temple of man and announceth unto you the appearance of God and His sovereignty. Hearken ye, and be not of the heedless.   BH09702

He has appeared at the pole of the horizons and called all to the covenant, the station wherein the very atoms of its dust proclaim that there is no God but Me, the Most High, the Most Great  BH04688

The pavilion of bounty hath been raised aloft, and the Lord of Eternity summoneth the peoples unto the Most Exalted Horizon which hath been illumined by the lights of His Most Glorious Name.   BH09033

O people of the earth! That which was concealed in the eternity of eternities hath appeared, and by its lights have the peaks and mountains been illumined, while ye remain among the heedless.  BH05717

O peoples of creation! By God, the Lord of Names and Creator of the heavens hath come! Turn ye unto Him, and be not of those who have denied God's proof and His signs, if ye be understanding.   BH06246

Verily the leaves do speak: "The Daystar of the horizons hath appeared!" And the trees do cry aloud: "The Chosen One hath appeared!" And the heaven doth proclaim: "The Lord of Names hath come!"   BH06934

"O concourse of men! He Who was promised in the Books of God hath come, He Whose remembrance was treasured in the hearts of the Messengers. He hath come to reform the world and refine the nations."  BH10711

O people of the earth! Abandon that which keepeth you back from God, then turn with radiant faces unto the most exalted Horizon. Thus doth the Lord of Names command you from this glorious station.   BH09002

Today the Book of God with eloquent and persuasive tongue calls all and invites them to the supreme horizon. O peoples of the earth! The Most Great Scene hath been adorned with the Lord of Destiny   BH05658

O people of the world! The Light of the Ancient One is shining from the horizon of the heaven of the Most Great Name, and the Fire of the Tree is blazing and speaking forth on the Mount of Knowledge.   BH04169

O people of the earth! That which was promised in the Scriptures of God hath appeared, and He Who was hidden behind the veils of the Unseen hath come. Fear God and be not of them that turn away.   BH04649

O people! The Suns of eternity have shone forth from the Most Glorious Horizon, and the Command hath been detailed in the Tablets of Destiny, and the Hands of Power have emerged from the sleeves.   BH03401

O people of the earth! Fear God and follow not those whom veils have prevented from the Source of verses. Break the idols of fancy and imagination in the name of your Lord, the Possessor of all names.  BH02696

O people! He Who was promised hath come unto you. Beware lest ye hesitate. Hasten unto Him with your hearts, for thus have ye been commanded in all the Tablets from God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.  BH02338

O concourse of possibilities! By God, the All-Merciful hath appeared with a sovereignty that hath subdued all who are in the heavens and on earth. O people! By God, the Most Transcendent Scene hath appeared   BH07578

Be fair, O people! If ye deny Him, by what path will ye approach and to what command will ye hold fast? By God! They have no protector save that they repent and return unto God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH03449

O people! The Self-Subsisting has come, and there is no escape for anyone except by turning to the Dawning-Place of verses Who speaks the truth - verily, there is no God but He, the Mighty, the Chosen One.  BH03145

O people of the earth! Fear the All-Merciful and follow not the desires of those who have disbelieved in God and His signs, and have broken His Covenant, and have pronounced against Him with manifest injustice.   BH06032

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto the call of Him Who is the Fashioner of the heavens, Who hath come with the Kingdom of Names. He speaketh at the heart of the world and summoneth all unto His Most Great Name   BH00688

O people of the earth! By God, the Lord of Religions hath come! The Kingdom is God's, the Lord of Lords. Fear ye God, and follow not your desires. This is what ye were commanded in the Scriptures and Tablets.  BH06263

O peoples of the earth! Lay aside the books of the populace and take hold of the Book of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Nothing In this day shall profit you save through this perspicuous Book.  BH04347

"This is the Day wherein the rapture of divine revelation hath taken hold of all created things, the Day wherein He Who had been mentioned in the books of God, the All-Glorious, the All-Wise, hath been made manifest."  BH07319

The Day of the Promise is come, and He Who is the Promised One loudly proclaimeth before all who are in heaven and all who are on earth, 'Verily there is none other God but He, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting!'  BH10137

O denizens of earth and heaven! By the one true God, verily, He Who is the Lord of Eternity hath appeared and shone forth above the horizon of creation through the power of His most lofty, His most exalted sovereignty.  BH11917

O concourse of divines! Fear the Lord of Names. He has come with verses that have attracted the hearts of those who know. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of this bounty which has encompassed the seen and unseen.   BH02108

O people of the earth! By God, the call hath been raised from the Most Exalted Horizon. Turn unto it with attentive ears, expanded breasts, illumined hearts, and radiant faces, and be not of those who see and deny.  BH08252

O peoples of the earth! Cast aside the days and names. The Day of God hath come with a light by which the heavens and earths were illumined. Turn ye toward the ocean of meanings by the command of One mighty and powerful.   BH07241

O people! Do ye deny that which ye were promised? Fear God and be not of them whom We behold in doubt and schism. This is the Promised One Who hath come from the dawning-place of the Promise with proof and evidence.   BH03067

O peoples of the earth! The Day of Hearing has come, for the Lord of Names calls out with the most exalted call between earth and heaven, summoning all to that which they were promised by One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise.   BH05748

The heaven with the most high call crieth out and saith: The Promised One hath come with a sovereignty that hath conquered the realms of meaning and utterance, and with a power before which no power in the world can stand.  BH03187

O people! Rend asunder the veils - this is your Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower. By God! The promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come with manifest sovereignty. If ye disbelieve, by what thing will ye hold fast?  BH03463

O people! The gates of heaven have been opened, the clouds pour down their rain, and the horizons are illumined. Cast aside what ye possess and turn unto Him Who calleth you to a station that transcendeth all mention.  BH06394

O people! The proof hath come, and He Who revealeth the utterance hath appeared with a manifest sovereignty. Follow not your desires - burn them with the fire of the remembrance of your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH05065

O people! By God, the All-Bestowing One hath come at the setting-place, and He is the Hidden Book and the Treasured Mystery. He hath appeared and revealed whatsoever He desired, and He is the Almighty, the All-Choosing  BH10098

Come ye, that I may show you the lights of God from this luminous horizon. That which lay concealed in the treasuries of knowledge hath been made manifest, and He Who was promised throughout the ages and centuries hath come.  BH06159

On this day the Wronged One calleth out from the Most Great Prison unto the peoples of the world and summoneth them unto the Most Great Ocean. His Cause is more manifest than the sun and His utterance is as the rays of light.  BH11709

O people! This is the Day of God, turn ye unto Him and follow not every heedless doubter. Say: By God! The Promise hath come and He Who was promised hath appeared, and dominion belongeth unto God, the Lord of all men.   BH04521

O people of the world! By God the Truth, the All-Merciful has come with a sovereignty that has encompassed all who are in the heavens and earth, and with a Cause before which neither the world nor any of its peoples can stand.   BH06347

O peoples of the world! Fear ye the Ancient Lord Who hath appeared with the Most Great Name, and be not of the heedless ones. Verily the gate of heaven hath been opened, and the Lord of Names hath come, riding upon the clouds.   BH00772

O people! This is a Day wherein the Beauty of the Self-Subsisting hath appeared, the heaven hath been cleft asunder, and the smoke hath enveloped all in the world save those who have turned toward the Most Transcendent Scene.  BH07017

O peoples of the earth! The Glad-Tidings of God have come! This is the time of joy, happiness and delight, for strife, dispute and conflict have been forbidden in the divine tablets. This is the Day of reformation, not of corruption.  BH00070

O people! Ye have been promised in the Tablets this Manifestation. Now hath He appeared with truth - wherefore do ye not understand? And He Whom ye were promised by the tongue of truth hath now come with truth - wherefore do ye not see?   BH04632

O people of the earth! Do ye doubt God, or this Light whereby the heavens and earth were illumined, or His signs which have filled the horizons? Say: Be fair, O people, and follow not those who have denied God, the Lord of all names.   BH06609

O people of God! Know your stations and follow not every ignorant remote one and every iniquitous doubter. This is the Day wherein We have revealed the treasures of inner meanings and utterance and have summoned all unto the All-Knowing One.   BH03433

O people! Answer Him Who speaketh this Day, and follow not the manifestations of fancy and idle imaginings. O people! Remember your Lord, the All-Merciful, and follow not every ignorant outcast. O concourse of earth! Grieve not for aught   BH05803

O people! The breezes of the All-Merciful have wafted, and that which was recorded in the scriptures and tablets hath appeared. Fear ye God, and reject not the truth with your mouths. Answer Him Who calleth you to the most exalted station.  BH06666

O peoples of the earth! By God, the seal of the Choice Wine hath been broken, the Hidden Treasure hath appeared, the Kawthar of utterance floweth through all contingent beings, and the Salsabil of knowledge for the followers of all religions.  BH09561

The Cock of the Throne has crowed at the settling of the All-Merciful upon the thrones of possibility. O heedless ones! The Lord of Names has come and My manifestation with grandeur and power is more excellent than the worship of all created things  BH09467

O people of creation! By God, the Lord of all names has come with a Cause against which all the forces of the earth combined cannot prevail, nor can the might of those who have disbelieved in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, prevent it.   BH08969

O peoples of the world! Cast away, in My name that transcendeth all other names, the things ye possess, and immerse yourselves in this Ocean in whose depths lay hidden the pearls of wisdom and of utterance, an ocean that surgeth in My name, the All-Merciful.  BH00821

O concourse of earth! Hearken unto My call. By My life! It will guide you to the straight path, draw you nigh unto the most exalted Habitation, and cause you to drink the choice wine of recognition from the hand of the bounty of your Lord, the All-Bountiful.  BH05101

O people! The Self-Subsisting is come, and the command is God's, the Almighty, the All-Choosing. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of this most great bounty. Cast away what the people possess and take what ye are bidden by God, Who illumineth the horizons.  BH04619

Today He hath appeared in truth, and none have understood save those possessed of insight. This is the Day whereof We gave you tidings aforetime through Our true utterance: "Lead mankind out of darkness into light and give them glad-tidings of the days of God"   BH04682

O concourse of men! The Lord of Destiny remembereth you from the direction of His Most Great Scene. Draw nigh and be not of them that hesitate. This is the Day of proof, were ye of them that know, and this is the Day of recognition, were ye of them that are certain.   BH02995

O peoples of the earth! The veils have been rent asunder and the All-Bestowing hath come with manifest sovereignty. Say: This is not a day for tarrying; turn with your hearts, O ye heedless ones! The fire of longing hath been kindled in all regions - hasten, O ye lovers!  BH05150

O people! The Hidden Book hath appeared and the Countenance that was inscribed in the Scriptures and Tablets hath shone forth. Every sect was promised the meeting with God and His appearance, yet when He appeared in truth they disbelieved in God, the One, the Chosen.   BH05371

O peoples of the earth! By God, the Most Great Book hath appeared and calleth all unto His luminous horizon. Beware lest the things of this world hold you back from the Lord of all being. Cast aside what ye possess and take what is with God, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH05228

O people of creation! Come ye, that I may recount unto you the Most Great News, through whose mention the Sacred Books and Tablets have been adorned. Come, O people of the earth, that I may show you the Most Exalted Horizon and cause you to hear the Call of God, the Lord of Lords.  BH00048

O peoples of all religions! Turn ye unto that which ye were promised by the Most Exalted Pen of God, then give thanks unto your Lord, the Compassionate, the Generous. He hath manifested Himself and fulfilled His promise through His grace, and He is the All-Bountiful, the All-Knowing.  BH11765

O concourse of men! Fear God and follow not your idle fancies. By God! He Who was promised in the Books of God and mentioned in the hearts of the Messengers hath come. Cast aside tyranny, then look with the eye of fairness at that which hath been sent down from God, the Ancient Revealer.  BH00273

O concourse of the earth! Be fair in your judgment by God and follow not your selfish desires in this Cause which, when it appeared, caused the lights to shine forth. Have ye anything greater than that which God hath brought? Then bring it forth and tarry not, O dawning-places of idle fancies!  BH05862

O people of the world, the Ancient Beauty hath come, and He Who was promised hath appeared and been recorded in the Tablets of God, the Lord of existence. Fear ye God and follow not your desires. Turn ye unto Him Who calleth you to the Most Exalted Station, from God, the Almighty, the All-Loving.   BH02399

O people of the earth! Fear God and follow not the footsteps of your divines. By the life of God! They lead you to the fire and guide you to perdition. O peoples of religions! Deprive not yourselves of the Most Great Ocean, which hath been mentioned in the Books of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH00809

This is an epistle from Us unto all that dwell on earth, that the sweet savors of revelation may draw them unto God, the Lord of existence. O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto My call, for verily it guideth you unto the path of God, the Lord of what was and what shall be. Cast away what ye possess.   BH01614

O people! How long will ye slumber? The heaven hath been cleft asunder and the Lord of the Day of Mutual Calling hath come. How long will ye flee to the right and to the left? Do ye not see that the mountains pass away like clouds? Say: O people! Fear God and follow not every doubting idolator.   BH05159

Raise the cry: 'Awake, awake, for, lo! the Gate of God is open, and the morning Light is shedding its radiance upon all mankind! The promised One is made manifest; prepare the way for Him, O people of the earth! Deprive not yourselves of its redeeming grace, nor close your eyes to its effulgent glory.'  BBU0003

O peoples of the earth! The Promised One hath appeared and made manifest that which lay concealed in the Books of God and treasured within His all-encompassing knowledge. Cast away what ye possess and take hold of that which hath been sent down from the heaven of the will of your Lord, the All-Knowing.   BH05834

O concourse of the earth! By God, the Most Great News hath appeared and the Books of God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment, have been sent down. Fear ye God and follow not your desires. Follow Him Who hath come to you from the horizon of power that He may draw you nigh unto the Dayspring of God's Revelation  BH07581

O concourse of the earth! Behold, then remember when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, came with the signs of God, the Lord of Lords. The learned ones of the earth and its rulers turned away from Him until they desired to shed His blood. We delivered Him through Our grace, for verily We are the Mighty, the Bountiful.   BH00204

The world hath been adorned with the ornament of the Ancient King, and longing hath seized all regions, yet most of the people are in manifest denial. The Word hath appeared and the Hour hath called out, and the Resurrection proclaimeth: "Glad tidings unto you, O concourse of the earth, in this blessed and wondrous Day!"  BH07580

O people of the world! The Wronged One from the precinct of the prison calleth you unto God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, and biddeth you to be present that ye may hear that which hath been sent down from the heaven of His Will and the atmosphere of His All-Compelling Purpose which dominateth the unseen and the seen.   BH00461

O people! This is the Ancient Beauty and He is standing between heaven and earth weeping and crying out. If ye will not assist Him, O concourse of the earth, at least do not slay Him with the swords of misbelief, and commit not that which tarnisheth the divine Beauty. Fear God and be not sowers of dissention amongst men.   BH01774

O peoples of religions! Do ye occupy yourselves with that which ye possess after He Who is the Lord of Names hath come with clear sovereignty? Abandon that which your selfish desires command you and turn unto the Most Sublime Horizon. This is better for you than all that hath been created on earth, if ye be of them that know.  BH02635

O peoples of the earth! Hearken unto the Call which hath been raised from the Most Exalted Horizon, and be not of the heedless ones. O people! That which ye possess will profit you not this day. Cast away the things of the world and its ornaments, and take hold of that which ye have been commanded by God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH01191

O peoples of the earth! Fear God and follow not your idle fancies. Follow Him Who hath come unto you with a sovereignty before which all names have bowed down, and with a Cause against which no parties can prevail. Aid ye your Lord, the All-Merciful. Soon shall all that ye possess perish; then shall ye find yourselves in abasement and loss.  BH11621

O concourse of earth and heaven! Rejoice, for the veil hath been rent asunder and the covering torn away, and the face of the Beloved hath shone forth above the horizon of power with a sovereignty that neither the ascendancy of the wicked nor the clamour of the boastful can thwart. Bestir yourselves and hasten with all your hearts to the presence of your Beloved.   BH06638

O concourse of creation! By God, He Whom the Messengers of God have heralded hath appeared, and He Who was hidden in God's knowledge and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in the Books and Tablets hath come. Say: Fear God, O peoples of the earth! Dispute not the verses of God after their revelation, and deny not the favor which, when sent down, caused the idols to swoon.   BH00562

O people! This is He through Whom faces have been illumined and eyes have been gladdened. He hath been imprisoned in the most desolate of cities for your salvation. Fear ye God, O ye who are endued with insight! Cast away what ye possess and turn with your hearts toward the Focal Point of the Beloved. Thus have ye been commanded in the Books of your Lord, the Creator of all things.   BH03472

O concourse of nations! From whom do ye flee this Day? By God! The Ancient Source hath appeared and in His hand is the pulse of the world. He healeth it as He pleaseth, and verily He is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Say: Do ye flee from Him Who hath come unto you with the Kawthar of everlasting life? Fear ye the All-Merciful, and be not of those who have disbelieved in God, the Lord of lords.  BH03075

O peoples of the earth! The Lord of all names hath come, the Sovereign! Hearken unto His call, and deprive not yourselves from serving Him, nor your faces from turning unto the splendors of His countenance, nor your hearts from drawing nigh unto His horizon, nor your ears from hearkening unto His call, nor your hands from taking hold of His Book, nor your feet from arising to carry out that which ye have been commanded in His perspicuous Book.   BH09136

O people! Fear ye God and the Manifestations of His Cause, and let not the world and its ornaments occupy you, for these shall pass away and are accounted before God as but numbered days. Raise your heads from the couches of heedlessness, then detach yourselves from all earthly things, and be not like those who forgot God and cast the words of God behind their backs, and were recorded in the Book of the righteous by the name of transgressors.  BH11721

O Concourse of the Spirit! He Who was promised hath come, and He Who was hidden hath appeared, and he who was silent hath spoken, through the grace of God, the Lord of the mighty Throne. O Concourse of the Spirit! He speaketh among you, yet ye hear not, and He walketh before your faces, yet ye know not. Your eyes have been dazed and your ears prevented. Fear ye God and follow not your desires. Follow Him Who was promised in the Books and mentioned in the hearts and minds.   BH01469

O peoples of the earth! The promised Day is come, and He Who was promised calleth aloud with most exalted call. In every state doth He proclaim: "There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed." Beware lest ye oppose Him through Whom every Book was sent down, every Messenger dispatched, and every wondrous Cause made manifest. Beware lest the cawing of the crows and the turning away of the opposers debar you from the Most Exalted Horizon and this clear and manifest Path.   BH00684

O peoples of the earth! Fear God, and deny not My proof, and dispute not My verses, and reject not My favor which We have sent down from the heaven of My mercy. Thus doth My Most Exalted Pen counsel you on this darksome night. Hearken, and be not among the heedless. Know ye the worth of these days and their station. God hath made their lights from the light of His countenance and their radiance from the sun of His grace, that ye may give thanks unto your Lord, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.   BH00523
