O peoples of all religions! Hearken unto the Call of the All-Merciful   BH07425

O women of the earth! Hearken unto that which the Spirit imparteth unto you.  BH11774

This is not the day of silence! It is the day of the Proclamation of the Kingdom!  ABU2944

O people of God! The Call is raised high, the Cause is manifest, the Light is shining forth   BH06360

The Lamp of God calleth out between you saying: "Unto Me, unto Me, O My people and My servants!"   BH08864

Today all things proclaim "The Truth hath come!" Blessed is the soul that hath attained to hearing the Call.  BH03063

This is the Day of Return, and the Truth calleth out with its loudest voice, summoning all to the straight path.  BH05816

O Parsee friends! Give thanks to the Divine Unity that in this spiritual age you have entered beneath the shade of the Tree of Paradise and have heard with your spiritual ears the Call of God's Covenant and become intoxicated from the cup of favor of the Divine Unity.  AB02046

He hath appeared with the truth and hath manifested whatsoever He desired, and hath called all to the supreme horizon.   BH05228

Say: O women of the earth! Deprive not yourselves, and keep not distant from a Law which hath trickled down from the clouds of grace.  BH05156

We address all created things with the most exalted call: Awaken ye to the call of your Lord Who hath come with power and sovereignty!   BH00898

Say: O People of the Book! Do you resent us only because we believe in God and what has been revealed to us and what was revealed before?   AB02633

The Wronged One calleth aloud from the Most Great Prison and summoneth all to God, the Lord of eternity, yet most of the peoples remain heedless.  BH08049

O followers of Zoroaster! Hearken unto the Call from the direction of 'Akka. Verily, it is raised in truth from God, the Goal of them that are nigh.  BH00333

He calleth out with the most exalted call from the horizon of the prison and summoneth the entire creation unto God, the Lord of the beginning and the end.  BH06724

The Pen in the Most Great Prison testifieth and calleth out amongst the nations: "The Kingdom is God's, the Lord of eternity!" Yet the people understand not.  BH02364

This is the Day which all the Prophets and chosen ones have heralded, and all peoples have besought and yearned for the presence of God, exalted be His glory.   BH05380

The Day of God hath come, and the Balance hath been set up, and the Trumpet hath been blown, and the Lord of Revelation hath spoken; yet the people are in strange doubt.   BH08196

Do ye not hide the precious jewels of the Kingdom under the earth. This day is the day of revelation! This Manifestation is the manifestation of knowledge and understanding  ABU0817

This is the Day whereon the Mother Book and the Preserved Tablet cry out before the Face, speaking and saying: "My Lord hath manifested Me - rejoice, O concourse of the chosen ones!"   BH09706

O peoples of all religions! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and oppose not Him before Whom, when He appeared, the Concourse on High and the dwellers of Paradise bowed down morning and evening.  BH07397

This is the Day wherein the Call of God has been raised from the direction of the Most Great Prison, calling out to the nations that there is no God but Me, the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting.  BH01562

This is the Day of God, and the Speaker of the Bayan hath mounted the pulpit of glory in the City of Love, crying aloud: O people of God! The Day is come, yet the people are in grievous stupor.  BH10126

In the earliest days We arose, with no veil or covering, before the faces of the followers of all religions and proclaimed the Cause of God. We opened wide the gates of utterance to all the peoples of possibility.   BH04584

The heaven hath been cleft asunder, and the Lord of Names hath come with manifest sovereignty. The earth hath been rent, and that which lay concealed within it hath appeared by command of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH07177

Say: O people of the Book! Do ye not disavow us only because we believe in God and in His signs? Will ye slay a man because he saith my Lord is God? Nor did they torment them but for their faith in God, the Mighty, the Praised.  AB04092

"O beloved of the Lord in London! Know ye assuredly that He who had departed from your midst is come again. Verily He hath fulfilled His promise and manifested His Cause. He passeth amongst you at all times, and yet ye heed Him not."  BH07319

This is the Day whereon all men have arisen before the Lord of the worlds. This is the Day which the Qur'an had foretold from the presence of the All-Merciful. The Kingdom on that Day is God's, though most of the people remain heedless.  BH05418

O servants! The light hath appeared, the Sun hath risen, the Book hath been revealed, the proof is resplendent, and the Kingdom of Utterance is manifest at the midmost heart of contingent being. Yet the people remain heedless and in denial.   BH05321

This is the Day of Revelation, and the Ancient Beauty calls out to the peoples of the world from the Dawning-Place of the Most Great Name, and summons them to the Source of Divine Revelation and the Dayspring of Grace, which is the Truth Itself.  BH09723

This is the Day whereon the Treasure hath been unveiled and that which lay hidden from time immemorial hath appeared. O people! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and deny not Him Who hath come from the heaven of utterance with clear proof and testimony.  BH06220

His remembrance from the Wronged One is unto all who are in the world, that He may draw them nigh unto God when He came with manifest sovereignty and revealed that which was hidden in the Books of old and treasured in the hearts of the Messengers.   BH02331

This is the Day when the Ancient Beauty hath appeared without veil or covering, and the Most Great Name is manifest without any concealment. The door of His grace hath been opened before the faces of His loved ones, and His favors have encompassed all.  BH05436

Say: O peoples of the religions! By God, the Day has appeared which was adorned by its mention in the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds. Say: Cast aside the dawning-places of idle fancies and take what you have been commanded by the Strong, the Ancient.   BH04160

We summoned all, without veil or barrier, unto God, the Lord of the worlds. We stood before all faces, speaking that which would draw them nigh unto the Most Great Ocean which surgeth by My Name, the All-Compelling over all who are in the heavens and earth.  BH05130

The atoms have testified to the Revealer of verses that there is none other God besides Him, the Mighty, the Bestower. The Balance hath appeared and verily it speaketh throughout the world and summoneth the peoples unto God, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.   BH07194

"The Day of the Call hath come, yet the people hear not. The horizon of utterance hath been illumined with the light of proof, yet most of the people perceive not. What they possess hath prevented them from that which is with God. Verily they understand not."   BH05275

O ye who are beloved of God among the Bedouins! Hearken unto the call of God from this Tree which hath been raised up in truth and every leaf whereof proclaimeth in all things that "Verily I am God, there is no God but Him, the Most Holy, the Mighty, the Generous."   BH00610

This is the Day whereon mankind hath arisen before God, the All-Possessing, the Self-Subsisting. This is the Day whereof God informed and gave glad tidings unto His servants through His word: "Lead forth the people from darkness into light and remind them of the days of God."  BH03196

The All-Bountiful has come, saying: "To Me, to Me, O people of understanding!" The All-Merciful has come, saying: "Hasten, hasten, O followers of the religions!" The All-Forgiving has appeared with truth, saying: "Come, come, O people of the Furqan and O people of the Bayan!"   BH05443

We were glorifying God and all things were glorifying with Us. We sat and heard from the rustling of the trees: "By God! The Chosen One has come and the Intended One has appeared - He Who was mentioned in God's Books, recorded in His Scriptures, and promised in the Mother Book."  BH04858

Know thou, moreover, that We have written Tablets for the followers of the Magian Faith and have therein adorned the Law. Blessed is he who remembereth them with joy and fragrance. And We have revealed therein the essence of what was concealed in their Books of symbols and allusions.   BH00898

"The Book calleth aloud: The All-Bestowing hath come, and sovereignty belongeth unto God, the Lord of the Final Return! The tongue of the All-Merciful in the Kingdom of Utterance proclaimeth with loudest voice: That which was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of Creation, hath been made manifest!"  BH09176

On this day the Herald hath called out from every direction: "The King is come, and sovereignty belongeth unto God, the Mighty, the All-Praised." Verily the Ocean hath testified to the truth, and the Sun proclaimeth: "He Who was hidden within God's knowledge, the Lord of the heavens and earth, hath come."   BH04814

That which was hidden hath appeared and that which was treasured hath spoken, and the Divine Lote-Tree hath called out: The Day of God, the Sovereign, the Peerless, the All-Informed, hath come. O peoples of the earth, fear God and follow not your desires. Follow Him Who calleth you unto the Straight Path.   BH07757


The Most Great, Most Holy, Most Glorious! The Spirit bears witness: The Light has come, and sovereignty belongs to God, the Mighty, the All-Wise. The Bayan bears witness: The All-Merciful has come with a clear proof. The Beloved bears witness: By God! This indeed is the Best-Beloved. Blessed is he who turns to Him.   BH05081

Say: O People of the Book! Come to a word common between us and you: that we shall worship none but Him, and that we shall not associate any partners with Him in His worship, and that we shall not take each other as lords besides God. Verily He is the One God, there is nothing like unto Him, and God is the Witness over all things.  BB00002

Then make mention of those who were in the land of Sin (China) and give them glad tidings of the favors of their Lord, the Forgiving, the Merciful. The glory be upon thee and upon them and upon those who have stood firm in this Cause whereby the lands were shaken, the servants were confounded, and the faces of the false ones were darkened.  BH02271

Today the Straight Path is manifest and calleth out, guiding all to the supreme horizon. The Balance uttereth "The All-Merciful is come," and the Herald between earth and heaven proclaimeth this most exalted Word: "The Desired One is come with a sovereignty before which the sovereignty of the world and the might of the nations cannot stand."   BH05321

Say: O concourse of merchants! The Chosen One hath come with grandeur and power. By what proof have ye turned away from the Intended One? Hath this world prevented you from the Lord of Names, and have ye been withheld by following every heedless sinner? Cast away what ye possess and take what ye have been commanded by One mighty and powerful.  BH03652

Verily the Torah crieth out saying: "He Who revealed Me hath come with His mighty signs. Turn unto Him, O concourse of Jews!" The Gospel exclaimeth: "He hath come from heaven, He through Whose mention God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, adorned His Book." And the Qur'an calleth humanity unto the Truth Who was promised by the Most Exalted Pen in a preserved tablet.  BH06042

Say: By God, the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree hath been raised, and the lights of the Countenance have shone forth from the supreme horizon. Blessed is he who hath witnessed and seen, and woe unto every heedless and veiled one. O peoples of the earth! All the signs have appeared, and the Lord of Names calleth aloud amongst mankind, yet most of the people understand not.   BH09694

"Rejoice in your very souls, for the most auspicious time hath come; and the Hour hath struck round which revolve all the other hours foretold in the Tablets of God, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Most Merciful; and the hidden Morn hath broken forth, in this treasured Name, from the dayspring of divinity, shedding its radiance upon all that hath been and all that shall be."  BH00379

Soon shall the heaven be cleft asunder and the Youth shall come upon the crimson Buraq, and the matter shall be determined by One mighty and powerful. Then shalt thou find the idolaters fleeing to the right and to the left. Say: Today there is no escape for anyone save he who has detached himself from all who are in the heavens and the earth and has taken shelter beneath a shade that hath been extended from all eternity.  BH09824

O My handmaidens and My leaves! Hearken with the ear of the spirit to the call of the Blessed Tree and grasp firmly its most pure and luminous hem, that perchance ye may attain to that which hath been recorded and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in the Crimson Book. All the women of the world have been created specifically for the recognition of the Intended One, and yet most of them remain heedless and veiled from this station.  BH04959

This is the Day which all divine Books have been adorned with its mention. Blessed is the soul whom neither doubts nor allusions of the heedless ones prevented from the direction of divine unity. Today the Supreme Paradise crieth out with the most exalted call "The All-Merciful hath come!" and the gates of the most exalted Paradise and the supreme Heaven are opened wide. Blessed is he who hath advanced and entered therein, and woe unto every remote denier.   BH06847

The lamp of God is lit and the rays of the Sun of Heaven illuminate the rose garden and flower beds. The call of the angel is loud, and the joyous tidings full of enthusiasm give life to every noble one and pauper. The bestowals of the Kind Friend are manifest, and the outpourings of the spring clouds are jewel-bearing. The sea of knowledge and understanding is casting forth pearls, and the fire of the world of heart and soul has flames reaching to the skirts of heaven.   AB02346

Today the Kingdom of Utterance proclaimeth before the faces of all religions, without any concealment or disguise, saying: "O people! Fear God, then turn unto the horizon wherefrom the Sun hath shone forth and the Light hath appeared, and wherein was inscribed by the Supreme Pen that which was recorded in the Books of God, the Lord of existence. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of the Lamp of Salvation, which calleth out with the most exalted call and summoneth all unto God, the Lord of the mighty Throne."   BH00459

Hasten to success, O companions! Hasten to prosperity, O people of understanding! Hasten to the heavenly table! Hasten to the divine gift! Hasten to celestial guidance! Hasten to the heavenly manifestations! Hasten to the promised bounty! Hasten to the anticipated presence! Hasten to the praiseworthy station! Hasten to eternal life! Hasten to the divine creation! Hasten to the cup brimming with divine outpourings! Hasten to hear the cooing of the dove in the gardens! Hasten to the roaring of the lions in the thickets!  AB11807

Glad-tiding! Glad-tiding! The Morn of Guidance hath dawned! Glad-tiding! Glad-tiding! The Sun of Reality hath shone forth! Glad-tiding! Glad-tiding! The Breeze of the Rose-garden of God hath wafted. Glad-tiding! Glad-tiding! A new Grace hath appeared in the world of humanity. Glad-tiding! Glad-tiding! The ideal of the solidarity of the human race hath pitched its Tent upon the apex of the world. Glad-tiding! Glad-tiding! The Flag of Peace and Salvation hath been unfurled in this century, waving over the East and the West!   AB02628

GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The doors of the Kingdom of God are open! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! Armies of Angels are descending from Heaven! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The Sun of Truth is rising! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! Heavenly food is being sent from above! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The Trumpet is sounding! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The Banner of the Great Peace is floating far and wide! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The Light of the Lamp of the Oneness of Humanity is shining bright! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The fire of the Love of God is blazing! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The Holy Spirit is being outpoured! GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! For Everlasting Life is here!   ABU2110

At the time when the Cause of Him Who is the Day-Star of the heights of glory was being proclaimed, the essences of existence were, from the kingdom of the seen and the unseen, listening and exclaiming, “Well done, O people of God, well done!”  AB12833
 
