when We reached the prison, We purposed to convey unto the kings the Message of God   BH05285

O King of the Earth! Hearken to the call of this Vassal  BH00038


I sacrificed my all for Thy Cause, O Thou in Whose hand is the kingdom of earth and heaven. I delivered Thy messages unto the kings with clear proof and evidence, that they might know that tribulation hath not deterred Me from that which I purposed, O Thou in Whose grasp is the kingdom of creation. I sent to each one of them a Tablet wherein I opened the gates of meaning and exposition, and from whose horizon shone forth the Sun of truth and explanation for all who dwell in the realm of possibility.   BH00420

O concourse of princes and divines, deal with equity in this Cause   BH06543

There remained no king except We summoned him to the straight path of God  BH06387

"in the fortress of Akka He addressed those proclamations to kings and rulers"   AB01065

He hath spoken before the faces of kings: The Kingdom is God's, the Possessor of the Kingdom!   BH04576

Tablets to the kings were revealed partly in Adrianople, partly in 'Akka. Only Queen Victoria replied.   ABU0211

Blessed is the king who hath attained unto this Day and hath cast away kingship, turning unto the Kingdom  BH07863

no king or subject remained except He made known to them Thy way and proclaimed to them Thy sovereignty and power  BH08944

When We arrived at the prison, We desired to convey unto the kings the message of their Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH05392

O Pasha! Hearken unto the call of the Wronged One from the precincts of 'Akka. He summons thee unto God, the Lord of the Final End.   BH08682

O concourse of princes! Turn ye unto the poor. God hath created you and them from one thing. Make ye in your possessions a portion for them.   BH04290

Tell the king that this territory will pass out of his hands, and his affairs will be thrown into confusion. Not I speak these words, but God speaketh them.  BHU0020

We have sent down a Book to the Governor of Baghdad concerning this petition of thine. Read God's Book before him and command him to send it to the King of Rum   BB00439

O concourse of kings and subjects! Cast away idle fancies and vain imaginings. By God! From the horizon of power hath appeared your Lord, the Chosen One, with manifest sovereignty.  BH02068

Christ did not write even a letter to Herod and Pilate who were two governors of the Holy Land, but the Blessed Beauty sent sufficient and complete proclamations to all the kings of the world.   AB01592

He addressed the kings from the prison, each individually, summoning all to the oneness of humanity, and the most great peace, arraigning some, and predicting what would happen in their kingdoms   ABU1415

when We reached the prison, We purposed to convey unto the kings the Message of God. Therefore was there revealed unto each one of them a Tablet wherein We proclaimed the Cause with power and sovereignty   BH05285

O concourse of rulers! Your ornaments and that which ye possess have preoccupied you. Soon shall the breezes of annihilation seize you from every direction. Then shall ye see yourselves in manifest loss.   BH00576

The kings saw no benefit for themselves in acknowledging Him, and likewise the ministers and clergy, even though in the divine Books and Scriptures the Purpose has been clearly and explicitly made manifest   BH10983

When We arrived at the Prison We desired to convey unto the kings the messages of their Lord, the Lord of all men, that they might know that tribulation hath not prevented God from exercising His sovereignty.  BH07178

The Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name, after arriving at the Most Great Prison, has been occupied with a momentous and mighty matter - namely, the proclamation of God's Cause to all the rulers of the earth   BH03052

He wrote epistles to all the sovereigns. He wrote to Napoleon 3rd, to the Emperor of Germany, to the Shah of Persia, to the Ottoman Vizier (Ali Pasha), To Sultan Abdul Aziz. In prison his power became apparent.   ABU0513

He wrote special Epistles covering these facts to all the kings and rulers of nations. Sixty years ago He conveyed His message to the leaders of the political world and to high dignitaries of the spiritual world.  ABU0275

From behind the barrack He wrote His famous epistles to the kings and rulers of the earth. Some of these sovereigns were arraigned severely, the fall of others was predicted, which came to pass a few years after.  ABU0046

If thou wouldst observe the Tablets which were sent down from the heaven of the Divine Will specifically for the kings of the earth, thou wouldst surely attain unto the blessed words "Verily, I have believed in Thee, O God of the worlds."   BH05230

When We entered into prison, We summoned the kings with a sovereignty that encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth, and commanded them to abandon what they possessed, turning unto God, the Almighty, the Glorious, the Best-Beloved.  BH11630

We have delivered unto the kings the messages of their Lord, and neither their might nor the tribulations that have befallen Us have deterred Us. Thus was the matter ordained in the Tablet of Destiny by the Most Exalted Pen, in truth, recorded.  BH02708

This most exalted Tablet (Lawh-i-Sultan) was revealed - in it all modes are present, from weighty admonitions and loving counsels to Divine verses, prayers and Persian verses. It would suffice all peoples of the world, were they to judge fairly.   BH01989

O Sultan, hear the call of the Sovereign from the direction of thy Lord's merciful throne, that it may detach thee from all that hath been created in the worlds and draw thee nigh unto His Beauty, the All-Merciful, a station holy and resplendent.   BH02833

O King of the Muslims! After the Book, aid Our Most Great Remembrance in truth, for verily God hath ordained for thee and for those who circle round thee, on the Day of Resurrection, a station of questioning upon the Bridge, according to the truth.  BB00002

O kings! Hearken ye unto My call and then judge fairly in My Cause. How long will ye follow your desires? Follow Him Who hath come with manifest sovereignty. He desireth to draw you nigh unto Him and to deliver you from that wherein ye are immersed.   BH07167

When Baha'u'llah was under chains He sent tablets to the kings. He admonished Napoleon Bonaparte severely. While in prison Baha'u'llah sent a tablet to Abdul Majid, father of the present Shah, arraigning him severely, telling him he would be dethroned.   ABU2369

From behind the barracks he wrote his famous epistles to the kings and rulers of the world, arraigning the oppressors of the earth and calling upon them in the name of God the exalted not to place their sovereignty above that of His Highness the Almighty.  ABU0207

O King! The lamps of equity have been extinguished, and the fire of tyranny hath so blazed on every side that My people have been led as captives from Zawra' to Mosul, known as Hadba'. This is not the first outrage that hath been suffered in the path of God.  BH00007

Know ye that during Our sojourn in the Land of Mystery, sublime Tablets were sent down and dispatched to certain monarchs in order to complete God's testimony. Among these was a Tablet revealed to the King of Paris who at that time was foremost among sovereigns.  BH00937

From Our Most Great Prison We were moved to address to the several rulers and crowned heads of the world Epistles in which We summoned them to arise and embrace the Cause of God. To the Shah of Persia We sent Our messenger Badi', into whose hands We entrusted the Tablet.  BHU0002

O King of the Earth! Hearken unto the call of this Vassal: Verily, I am a Servant Who hath believed in God and in His signs, and have sacrificed Myself in His path. Unto this bear witness the woes which now beset Me, woes the like of which no man hath ever before sustained.  BH00038

But the Blessed Perfection addressed all the kings. When 'Abdu'l-'Aziz, the former sultan of Turkey, was at the climax of his sovereignty, He, Baha'u'llah, arraigned him severely and clearly foretold the upheaval of his kingdom on account of the oppression he had committed.   ABU0247

Thus have We set forth the verses for thee and sent them down in truth that thou mayest find the sweetness of the table that hath descended from heaven. Until they cast Us into another prison, whereupon We arose with another call and conveyed the Command of thy Lord to kings and monarchs.   BH03274

O kings! The Sovereign hath come and calleth you unto the Cause whereby every wise command hath been made manifest. Say: O princes! Take heed lest names hold you back from their Lord. Cast away what ye possess, then hasten unto the Dawning-Place of Revelation, and be not of them that tarry.   BH02870

You saw what became of the blessed Tablet addressed to the sovereign of Iran, you saw what became of the blessed Tablet addressed to the Ottoman Sultan, you saw what became of the blessed Tablet addressed to Napoleon the king of France, you saw what became of the blessed utterance regarding Germany.  ABU2454

From the prison He addressed the Kings and rulers of the world and in His famous Tablets and Epistles He exhorted them to lay the foundation of the palace of Peace. He arraigned the Kings for their utter disregard of the rights of their subjects and censured them for their cruelty, tyranny and oppression.  ABU0159

Among them was the King of Persia, to whom We unveiled the beauty of the Cause and made Ourselves known, after We had chosen one from among the distinguished ones, breathed into his heart the spirit of might and power, and sent him unto him like a ball of fire with a Tablet from thy Lord, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH00739

O Queen in London! Incline thine ear unto the voice of thy Lord, the Lord of all mankind, calling from the Divine Lote-Tree: Verily, no God is there but Me, the Almighty, the All-Wise! Cast away all that is on earth, and attire the head of thy kingdom with the crown of the remembrance of thy Lord, the All-Glorious.   BH00662

We have indeed sent down a Book unto the kings that they might know the innovative decrees from the presence of the Remnant of God, a just and upright Leader. O concourse of the people of Rome! Fear ye God, your Lord, the Most Merciful, regarding this decree, for it is truth like that which ye firmly believe in God's Covenant.   BB00229

Similarly Badi', who bore the letter to the Sultan and stood before him, raised the letter and proclaimed: O King, I have brought thee from the Most Great Announcement a Mighty Book. Surely they have heard the details of how, with what power and might, he declared his mission before His Majesty the Sultan, while wearing but a single shirt.  BH08184

From this prison, from within its walls, He wrote epistles to all the kings. He summoned them to arbitration and the Most Great Peace. Some of the sovereigns received this summons with haughty pride. One of these was the Ottoman King, another the French Emperor; the latter sent no reply; then another epistle was addressed to Napoleon III.   ABU0198

"O King of Paris!" ... "O King! Bear thou witness unto that which God hath Himself and for Himself borne witness ere the creation of earth and heaven, that there is none other God but Me, the One, the Single, the Most Exalted, the Incomparable, the Inaccessible. Arise with the utmost steadfastness in the Cause of thy Lord, the All-Glorious."  BH00259

O King! It behooveth, nay it is imperative upon Your Majesty in such days as these that the justice of God's shadow on earth inquire of Sayyah Effendi, the true minister of the noble court: What was the purpose of your journey to Akka in that known year? By whose direction was it made? What was your objective? And what response did you receive?   BH00340

The protection of His Majesty the Most Great Emperor, may God assist him, hath become the cause of the inflammation of the fire of hatred. For some time they have been secretly engaged in instigation and zealously seeking means of oppression, until in these days the hidden contents of the breasts of the oppressors have become manifest and evident.  BH00207

O ye two kings! Follow the decree of your Lord, then present yourselves before God, then read the Book of Remembrance with justice, that ye may be numbered among the triumphant. We have indeed sent down the verses as a Book unto the king that thou mightest recite the Book of Command with truth, and be among those who in the Faith of God are well-assured.   BB00241

O Kings of the Bayan! Command your envoys, when the Sun of Certitude dawneth from the horizon of the All-Glorious, to proceed with God's announcement and His Tablets throughout all lands and to inform the people of the holy and wondrous lights. Command these to carry the traces of God to all regions, that the breezes of holiness may waft over all the worlds.   BH00532

O kings of the earth! We see you increasing every year your expenditures, and laying the burden thereof on your subjects. This, verily, is wholly and grossly unjust. Fear the sighs and tears of this Wronged One, and lay not excessive burdens on your peoples. Do not rob them to rear palaces for yourselves; nay rather choose for them that which ye choose for yourselves.  BH00347

I swear by the truth of God! Wert thou to know that which I know, thou wouldst forgo the sovereignty of this world and of the next, that thou mightest attain My good-pleasure, through thine obedience unto the True One... Wert thou to refuse, the Lord of the world would raise up one who would exalt His Cause, and the Command of God would, verily, be carried into effect.   BB00262

O King! Follow thy Lord's decree and bear witness to justice in My verses that thou mayest be among the triumphant. Then prostrate thyself before God thy Lord for what We have revealed unto thee from His presence, that thou mayest be among the believers. Verily God thy Lord hath willed that Rome and most of the people of the earth should believe in His verses. Aid thou the religion of God   BB00224

An epistle was written to Napoleon, but Napoleon did not take any notice of it. Then another epistle was revealed. In the second tablet he says: 'I wrote to thee to test thee. For thou hadst said when the Ottoman fleet was sunk by the Russians in the Black Sea and when the Czar of Russia said to thee, 'O Emperor, I am a Christian and thou art a Christian, why does thou not come to my assistance?'   ABU0402

O concourse of kings! Adorn your heads with the crowns of justice, that their lights may illumine all regions. Thus do We command you as a bounty from Our presence, O concourse of sovereigns. God shall soon manifest in the earth kings who shall recline upon the cushions of justice and shall judge amongst men even as they judge their own selves. These are among the choicest of My creatures among all created things.   BH00195

O Czar of Russia! Incline thine ear unto the voice of God, the King, the Holy, and turn thou unto Paradise, the Spot wherein abideth He Who, among the Concourse on high, beareth the most excellent titles, and Who, in the kingdom of creation, is called by the name of God, the Effulgent, the All-Glorious. Beware lest thy desire deter thee from turning towards the face of thy Lord, the Compassionate, the Most Merciful.  BH01042

"The spirit and meaning of the Tablet to Nasiri'd-Din Shah was, in short, this: 'Now that the time has come, when the Cause of the Glory of God has appeared, I ask that I may be allowed to come to Tihran and answer any questions the priests may put to Me. I exhort you to detach yourself from the worldly magnificence of your Empire. Remember all those great kings who have lived before you -- their glories have passed away!'"  ABU0065

Immediately upon His arrival in prison, He addressed an epistle to Napoleon which He sent through the French ambassador, the substance of which was: Ask what crime We have committed to be confined in this prison. Napoleon made no reply. Then a second epistle was issued, which is contained in the Suriy-i-Haykal, and which in substance says: O Napoleon! Since thou hast failed to heed and answer My call, thou shalt lose Thy dominion and be reduced to naught.  AB00029

O concourse of kings! By God, We desire for you naught save what profiteth you in this world and the next. Fear ye the Lord of all being, then act according to what ye have been commanded in the Books of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. Hold fast unto that which ye have been counseled from the Tongue of Grandeur in a perspicuous Book. Beware lest your power delude you. Cast away what ye possess and take hold of what ye have been commanded by One Who is All-Knowing, All-Informed.   BH06227

Know then, O Sultan, that We dwelt among the people as one of them, such that We would sit with them and walk before them morning and evening, and none among them recognized Us, for they were seized with vain imaginings and were drowned in the ocean of fancy. When the days were fulfilled and the promise came, We emerged from behind the veils with manifest power and rent asunder the veils of fancy and showed forth Our countenance from this Dawn which was radiant from the horizon of God.   BH03977

Where are the Caesars and their palaces? Where are the Pharaohs and their might? Where are the tyrants and their dominion? They have returned from their palaces to their tombs. Verily thy Lord is the Remembrancer, the All-Wise. Where is the Prime Minister of Iran and his pride? Where is his grandeur and his power? Where is his beaming smile and his decisive command and his pampered form? He hath returned to his abode, fearful, agitated, trembling from the fear of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH03584

The Blessed Perfection (Glory be to him!), in his holy days, declared himself universally, sent notices to queens and kings, and taught all who wished to know the truth. To the Shah of Persia he wrote with the greatest evidence, and the Persians as well as the different nations, are informed of this. In his letter to the Shah of Persia, he requested that all of the learned men be called together for the purpose of asking him about miracles or arguments until either truthfulness or falsity should become manifest.   ABU1385

Say: O concourse of kings! By God, We have not come except for the reformation of the world and the edification of the nations. Fear ye the All-Merciful, and deny not yourselves that which hath been ordained for you in the Most Exalted Paradise by God, the Mighty, the Beauteous. Cast away what ye possess and take hold of that which ye have been bidden by Him Who is the Powerful, the Almighty. This shall profit you in all the worlds of His worlds and shall exalt you to a station wherein ye shall behold yourselves in a noble state.   BH00517

We have revealed to the King of Iran: "O King! Wert thou to hear the shrill voice of the Most Exalted Pen and the cooing of the Dove of Eternity upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree in remembrance of God, the Creator of Names and Fashioner of earth and heaven, it would bring thee to a station wherein thou wouldst behold in existence naught save the effulgence of the Worshipped Beauty, and wouldst see sovereignty as the most contemptible thing, leaving it to whomsoever might desire it, and would turn toward the Horizon which shineth with the light of His Countenance."  BH10905

The first of the "Letters to the Kings", which was written to Napoleon was quite a short one, and was to the effect that God had him (Napoleon) with great powers and influence; and requesting him to inquire why those Baha'is were more oppressed? What evil or sedition had they committed which caused them to be so closely confined, etc? But Napoleon never replied to this letter. Whereas, after at time, the Blessed Perfection wrote the long letter to Napoleon, prophesizing the downfall of his Empire, etc. and this letter was published and circulated through Persia, at least two years before these events happened.  ABU0378

And in the prison of 'Akka, the Blessed Beauty summoned the kings, including the Emperor of France. When he paid no heed, a second Tablet was revealed to him stating: It is evident that thou art not sincere in thy claim of being the protector of the oppressed. Thou hast been heedless, and therefore thy kingdom shall soon pass from thy hands. The lamentations of the people shall rise, women shall wail, and children shall be trampled underfoot. Observe what addresses He made to the kings and what effects became manifest. A Person Who was alone and unique, without any helper or assistant, thus warned the kings while He was in prison. He proclaimed His Cause while in chains.  ABU0223

In this glorious Tablet to the King of Persia Baha'u'llah has perfected His Proof from every standpoint. There has been left for him no loophole through which he might escape. First, there are ample references to history, both spiritual and descriptive. Second, there are supplications, the effect of which would move the hearts and melt the adamantine rock. Third, there are exhortations, advice, behests, and counsels. Fourth, there are glowing spiritual utterances whereby mankind might turn their faces toward God, receive the Bestowals of their Maker, walk in the path of righteousness and be characterized with the qualities of severance and detachment from the world and its material conditions.   ABU0164

O kings of the earth! Give ear unto the Voice of God, calling from this sublime, this fruit-laden Tree, that hath sprung out of the Crimson Hill, upon the holy Plain, intoning the words: There is none other God but He, the Mighty, the All-Powerful, the All-Wise. This is a Spot which hath been sanctified by God for those who approach it, a Spot wherein His Voice may be heard from the celestial Tree of Holiness. Fear God, O concourse of kings, and suffer not yourselves to be deprived of this most sublime grace. Fling away, then, the things ye possess, and take fast hold on the Handle of God, the Exalted, the Great. Set your hearts towards the Face of God, and abandon that which your desires have bidden you to follow, and be not of those who perish.  BH00021

In these days after arrival at the Most Great Prison, the Divine Will became attached to this: that He should call anew all creation to the shore of oneness with the most exalted call. Therefore specifically for each of the rulers of the earth a special Tablet was revealed from the heaven of the Divine Will, and each was designated by a name - the first by "The Cry", the second by "The Calamity", the third by "The Inevitable", the fourth by "The Awakening", the fifth by "The Overwhelming", and likewise by "The Deafening Clamor", "The Imminent", "The Great Terror", "The Trumpet Blast", "The Horn", and their like - so that all the people of the earth might become certain and witness with their outer and inner sight that the Lord of Names has been and shall ever be triumphant over all.   BH00497

The Emperor of France was one in his words greater than mountains, yet in his deeds less than a mustard seed. In the days when the Most Holy Land was made the seat of God's Throne, there was revealed from the heaven of divine Will a most holy and exalted Tablet addressed specifically to him. In that Tablet the Ancient Beauty had observed his kingly station, yet after its dispatch he failed to present a reply.  Thereafter another Tablet was revealed from the heaven of God's Will wherein He states, exalted be His utterance: "We have tested thee and found thee remote from the Word" - meaning, We put thee to the test and found thee estranged from the Word. Among his utterances was this: should there be found an oppressed one in the world who seeks justice, we shall come to his aid and deliver him from tyranny. Nevertheless, he sent no reply to the divine Tablet and arose not to render assistance. After this episode He declared that his likeness was as a cannon without shot - mighty in sound yet yielding no result. Some people are found to be of his kind: in words they claim that which far exceeds their station, yet in deeds they are nothing, nothing, nothing. BH06917

Fifty years ago Baha'u'llah sent Epistles to all the kings and nations of the world, at a time when there was no mention of international peace. One of these Epistles was sent by Him to the president of the American democracy. In these communications He summoned all to international peace and the oneness of the human world. He summoned mankind to the fundamentals of the teachings of all the Prophets. Some of the European kings were arrogant. Among them was Napoleon III. Baha'u'llah wrote a second Epistle to him, which was published thirty years ago. The context is this: "O Napoleon! Thou hast become haughty indeed. Thou hast become proud. Thou hast forgotten God. Thou dost imagine that this majesty is permanent for thee, that this dominion is abiding for thee. A letter have we sent unto thee for acceptance with thy greatest love; but, instead, thou hast shown arrogance. Therefore, God shall uproot the edifice of thy sovereignty; thy country shall flee away from thee. Thou shalt find humiliation hastening after thee because thou didst not arise for that which was enjoined upon thee, whereas that which was a duty incumbent upon thee was the cause of life to the world. The punishment of God shall soon be dealt out to thee." This Epistle was revealed in the year 1869, and after one year the foundations of the Napoleonic sovereignty were completely uprooted. ABU0037
From His prison cell, He addressed letters to the kings and rulers of the world, calling them to justice and urging them to establish universal peace. The first thing he did was to write an epistle to all the kings of the earth and to the pope and to your President, then U.S. Grant, proclaiming the brotherhood of man and the importance of international peace.  ABU3765
 
