O concourse of divines! Because of you the people were abased, and the banner of Islam was hauled down, and its mighty throne subverted. Every time a man of discernment hath sought to hold fast unto that which would exalt Islam, ye raised a clamour, and thereby was he deterred from achieving his purpose, while the land remained fallen in clear ruin.  BH00336

O concourse of Muslim divines! By your deeds the exalted station of the people hath been abased, the standard of Islam hath been reversed, and its mighty throne hath fallen.  BH10135

Amongst the people is he whose learning hath made him proud, and who hath been debarred thereby from recognizing My Name, the Self-Subsisting; who, when he heareth the tread of sandals following behind him, waxeth greater in his own esteem than Nimrod. Say: O rejected one! Where now is his abode? By God, it is the nethermost fire. Say: O concourse of divines! Hear ye not the shrill voice of My Most Exalted Pen? See ye not this Sun that shineth in refulgent splendour above the All-Glorious Horizon? For how long will ye worship the idols of your evil passions? Forsake your vain imaginings, and turn yourselves unto God, your Everlasting Lord.  BH00001

"Were all the divines and mystics on earth to assemble, and with them all the kings and rulers, verily I would present Myself before their faces and would proclaim the verses of God, the Sovereign, the Almighty, the All-Wise. I am He Who feareth no one, though all who are in the heavens and on earth should combine against Me. The verses have bowed before My countenance and all voices have become humble before My most wondrous and matchless melodies. This is My hand which God hath made white for all the worlds, and this is My staff which, were We to cast it down, would swallow up all created things. All that hath been created between the heavens and the earth is but as a handful of clay in thy Lord's sight."   BH00457

O concourse of divines! Fear ye God, and follow not idle fancies and vain imaginings   BH07313

Say: O concourse of divines! Hold your pens, for by God the Supreme Pen moveth upon the Tablet of Destiny.  BH01962

O concourse of divines in Persia! Be fair concerning that which hath appeared with truth and be not of the oppressors.  BH05256

Say: O concourse of divines! Cast aside what is in your hearts and breasts, and take what ye are bidden by God, the Sovereign of sovereigns.  BH04249

Say: Be fair, O concourse of divines! By what proof did ye believe aforetime, and by what evidence do ye now turn away from this hidden Name?   BH06381

Say: O concourse of divines! Fear ye God and follow not your idle fancies. The Promise hath come and the Promised One calleth aloud before all faces.   BH02239

Say: Observe! Observe! O concourse of divines, and be not of the wrongdoers. Judge with fairness and be not of those who behold the signs yet deny them  BH05864

Say: O concourse of divines! Cast aside what ye possess. By God! The Most Exalted Pen has been raised and announces to all the appearance of the Known One, to Whom ye turned morning and evening  BH01742

Say: O high priests! The Hand of Omnipotence is stretched forth from behind the clouds; behold ye it with new eyes. The tokens of His majesty and greatness are unveiled; gaze ye on them with pure eyes.   BH01353

O concourse of divines! Cast aside what ye possess of idle fancies, then turn with your hearts toward the Most Exalted Horizon - the Station from which hath shone forth the Sun of Knowledge from One mighty and powerful.   BH06424

O concourse of divines! Fear God and bar not those who were created by God's binding Word, by which the books of the world were detailed, if ye but knew. Beware lest the conditions of learning withhold you from the Known One   BH03126

O concourse of divines! Ye shall not henceforth behold yourselves possessed of any power, inasmuch as We have seized it from you and destined it for such as have believed in God, the One, the Almighty, the Glorious, the Unconstrained.   BH03535

Say, O high priests! Ye are held in reverence because of My Name, and yet ye flee Me! Ye are the high priests of the Temple. Had ye been the high priests of the Omnipotent One, ye would have been united with Him, and would have recognized Him.   BH02979

O high priests! The Possessor of the world is come. His Way is unlike other ways, and His words are unlike other words. Hearken ye unto them and come towards Him. This is the Day of Victory, and no one hath ever witnessed or will again witness its like.  BH04665

Say: O concourse of divines! The Creator of the heavens and the Sovereign of the Kingdom of Names hath come. Fear ye God and be not of the heedless. This is the Day wherein the Herald proclaimeth: "The Kingdom belongeth to God, the Almighty, the All-Praised."   BH01199

Say: O concourse of divines! Die in your wrath. The Lord of Names hath come with clear sovereignty. He it is Who hath appeared and manifested before the faces of the world that which He desired in such wise that neither the might of kings nor of rulers could withhold Him.   BH05045

Say: O concourse of divines! Cast aside that which ye imagine. He Who is Known hath come with His Name, the Self-Subsisting. Beware lest ye perpetrate what your likes have perpetrated in the days of God, your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Cast your sciences behind you.   BH03899

Say: O concourse of divines! Fear ye the Lord of Names. He hath come with the truth with a sovereignty that hath conquered all who are in the heavens and earth. Through your oppression the Apostle hath lamented in the Most Exalted Paradise, and the Spirit in the Supreme Kingdom  BH04047

O concourse of divines! Fling away idle fancies and imaginings, and turn, then, towards the Horizon of Certitude. I swear by God! All that ye possess will profit you not, neither all the treasures of the earth, nor the leadership ye have usurped. Fear God, and be not of the lost ones.   BH04977

O concourse of divines! By what proof did ye believe in My previous Manifestations yet deny this Manifestation at Whose appearance all things have cried out: "The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing"? Do ye imagine that ye are the beneficent? Nay, rather ye are among the most lost!   BH02870

O concourse of divines! Fear ye God, and deny not Him Who hath come from the heaven of grace and bounty with verses that all the treasures of earth cannot equal. To this beareth witness the Mother Book from its most exalted station. Be fair in your judgment by God, and follow not idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH00558

Say: O concourse of divines! Die in your wrath. The Hour hath come and ye are sleeping. The Cry hath been raised and ye are heedless. Say: The breeze of God hath wafted over you and ye are as dead. Say: Lift up your heads! Verily the Sun is shining from the horizon of the heaven of Revelation, would that ye perceive.  BH01044

The books of the world profit you not this day save through this Book which speaketh before the faces of the nations by the leave of an All-Knowing Commander. Thus have We sent down the verses and expounded them in truth and dispatched them unto thee, that thou mayest be endowed with insight into this momentous announcement.   BH00441

O concourse of divines! Cast aside what ye possess of veils and allusions. Hearken unto that which the Supreme Pen calleth you to in this wondrous Day. Through your injustice the Concourse on High hath lamented, as have the denizens of Paradise and those who have proclaimed there is no God but He, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH00576

Say: O company of the learned! Why have ye turned away from the Dayspring of divine knowledge after having been promised it in the Tablets of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed? By My life! They are worshippers of vain imaginings, save him who hath held fast to My Name, the Self-Subsisting, Who hath come with a mighty sovereignty.  BH03652

Say: O concourse of divines! How long will ye remain slumbering upon the couch of heedless negligence? The inhabitants of the cities of divine names have been seized with yearning at the wafting of the fragrance of the Divine Presence, inasmuch as He Who was recorded in the books of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, hath appeared.  BH08083

Say: O concourse of divines! Be fair in the Cause of God and His sovereignty, and follow not fancies and idle imaginings. Behold what hath been inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen upon the Tablet of existence. God hath come with manifest sovereignty. Cast away what ye possess and take what ye have been given from God, the Mighty, the Loving.  BH05093

O ye divines of the City! We came to you with the truth, whilst ye were heedless of it. Methinks ye are as dead, wrapt in the coverings of your own selves. Ye sought not Our presence, when so to do would have been better for you than all your doings. Know ye that the Sun of vicegerency hath dawned in all truth, and yet ye have turned away therefrom.  BH00021

O concourse of divines! Pride not yourselves on your conjectures and idle fancies, nor on your riches and wealth. Choose for yourselves that which shall endure in the kingdom of your Lord, the Most High, the Mighty, the Great. This is a matter that your power and might cannot weaken, nor your imaginings affect. Fear God and be among the discerning ones.  BH01801

Say: O concourse of divines! Ye are the veils of the earth and its doubts - to this testifies He with Whom is the perspicuous Book. Were ye to be fair, by what proof did ye believe in Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and by what evidence did ye turn away from Him Who came to you with that which is with the All-Knowing? Fear God and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH09122

Say: O concourse of divines! Still your pens, for by God the Most Exalted Pen speaketh in truth and moveth across the Tablet by the command of One powerful and all-knowing. Efface what ye possess of sciences and allusions, for lo, the Tree of the Uttermost End calleth between earth and heaven, and in each word that proceedeth from its mouth are treasured the sciences of the first and the last.  BH02635

Say: O concourse of divines! Fear ye God and follow not your idle fancies. Follow that which ye have been commanded in a mighty Tablet. Reflect upon the former ages and upon the deeds of those who turned away from the Truth and disputed His signs, until they pronounced judgment against the Prophets and Messengers. They cast the command of God behind their backs and seized upon that which they were forbidden in His perspicuous Book.  BH03349

Say: O concourse of divines! By God, He Who was promised in God's Books hath come, and He Who was hidden in the knowledge of your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, hath been manifest. Cast aside what ye possess and take hold of that which ye have been bidden by God, the Lord of all worlds. Do ye deny Him to Whom the Tongue of Grandeur bore witness in former ages? Fear God and follow not your idle fancies. Follow ye Him Who hath come to you with a perspicuous Book.   BH00385

O concourse of divines! By God, Paradise lamenteth because of your tyranny, and the chosen ones because of what hath befallen Us at the hands of your followers, who have clung to you without clear proof or evidence. Behold, then remember what ye have done aforetime to God's friends and chosen ones, through whom the horizon of the world was illumined and the ocean of knowledge surged amongst the nations, and through whom the banners of unity were hoisted upon the hills.  BH00098

Say: O concourse of divines! Judge with justice amongst My servants. Beware lest anything prevent you from turning toward the poor. Look not to the right, but to the manifest truth. We are with you in all conditions. We hear what issueth from your mouths and behold what ye do. He, verily, is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Turn away your eyes from the left; be ye of them on the right hand who judge with pure justice for the sake of God. These, verily, are of the sincere ones.   BH00564

O concourse of divines! Where is your praise and glorification, and where is your postponement and hastening regarding the Manifestation of God and His proof? Fear God and follow not your idle fancies; rather follow Him Who hath come to you with a manifest light. Say: O heedless ones! Why did the idol-worshipping divines turn away when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, appeared, and by what proof did the Jews deny when the Spirit came, and by what evidence did the tyrants and pharaohs turn away from God, the Lord of the worlds?  BH00059

They would enter mosques and temples to make mention of God and to recite what He had revealed unto His Beloved and Chosen One. Yet when the horizon of the world was illumined and there shone forth from it the Sun of His Most Great Name - through which the Cause of every Prophet was established and the Mission of every Messenger was fulfilled - they turned away from Him, denied Him, cast His Cause behind their backs, broke His Covenant, and perpetrated that which caused the atoms to lament and the Maids of Heaven to swoon in their chambers.  BH00013

Say: O concourse of divines! Where is the phrase "may God hasten His advent" and where are your supplications and prayers for His appearance and manifestation? Be fair, O people, and be not of the wrongdoers. Ye have pronounced judgment against Him through Whose name your stations were exalted and your ordinances encompassed all and your commands were executed. By the life of God! Ye have committed that which hath caused the fruits and trees and leaves to lament in God's most exalted Paradise, while ye remain heedless. Soon shall ye behold the recompense of your deeds. Your appointed time is the pitch-dark night, and it is near, did ye but perceive it.   BH05492

O concourse of divines! Fear God in your opinions from this your day, for the Remembrance among you from Us is in truth a judge and witness. Turn away from that which ye take from other than God's Book of truth, for ye shall in truth be questioned at your station on the path on the Day of Resurrection.  BB00002

O concourse of divines! Not one among you at the dawn of the Manifestation attained to faith. You all, along with your ignorant followers, engaged in cursing and denouncing. Throughout ages and centuries, you imagined yourselves to be commemorating God and following His commandments. Yet when the dawn of hope appeared and the blessed Tree sprouted forth, you arose with swords of hatred to cut it down and issued decrees for the shedding of His most pure blood. From the beginning of Islam until now, not one among you has understood the truth of the Cause, nor attained even an atom's weight of true knowledge, for none of you, from beginning to end, achieved the recognition of the Promised One and the existence of that Essence of Being in the loins. Now set aside your ignorant prejudices and speak with justice and fairness. The horizon of the world is illumined and adorned with the lights of the manifestation of Him Who conversed with Moses. Behold Him with His own eyes.  BH00016