O people of the Bayan! Fear God and contend not with Him   BH01993

O people of the Bayan! Judge fairly concerning this Announcement   BH06163

O people of the Bayan! The All-Merciful hath come with manifest sovereignty.  BH10367

O people of the Bayan! The All-Merciful hath come with the lights of certitude   BH07218

This is a chalice filled with the mercy of God; drink ye of it, O people of the Bayan!  BH11865

Fear God, O people of the Bayan, and deny not God, the Creator of the heavens and the earth.   BH04981

In the name of God and by God! Then turn to the people of the Bayan and say: O people! Have ye not been promised in the Tablets of your Lord, the All-Merciful, this Revelation which hath come to you with the proof of God, the Almighty, the Powerful, the All-Knowing? If ye deny it, by what proof can ye establish your faith in God, your Lord? Bring it forth and be not of the patient ones.   BH00425

O congregation of the Bayan, and all who are therein! Recognize ye the limits imposed upon you, for such a One as the Point of the Bayan Himself hath believed in Him Whom God shall make manifest, before all things were created. Therein, verily, do I glory before all who are in the kingdom of heaven and earth. Suffer not yourselves to be shut out as by a veil from God after He hath revealed Himself.  BB00525

O people of the Bayan! Let none among you reject another before the Sun of Eternity dawneth from its exalted heaven. We created you from one tree and as the fruits of one tree, that ye might find repose in one another. Look not upon others save as ye look upon yourselves, lest hatred appear among you whereby ye would be veiled from Him Whom God shall make manifest on the Day of Resurrection. Be ye all one people, then return ye unto Him Whom God shall make manifest.  BB00003

O people of the Bayan! By God, this is indeed My Self and My Beloved Who hath come unto you with manifest sovereignty. Beware lest ye differ concerning Him and dispute with Him as did the people of the Furqan when I came unto them from the dawning-place of the Spirit with a mighty command.  BH00424

O people of the Bayan! Judge fairly in this Cause and follow not every heedless doubter.   BH05642

O people of the Bayan! Grieve not at this, but put your trust in God, if ye be of them that know   BH05546

Fear ye God, O people of the Bayan, and follow not the manifestations of fancy and vain imaginings.   BH07349

And now some among the people of the Bayan cling to those same names and hold fast to those same things.   BH05599

O people of the Bayan, be fair and speak with justice. Be not of those who, after witnessing, denied   BH05531

O people of the Bayan! That which lay treasured in the divine repository of knowledge hath appeared.   BH04889

This is the Book of the All-Merciful from which the proof hath shone forth unto those who are in the Bayan.   BH09054

O people of the Bayan! He Who speaketh before all faces hath no need of aught else to prove His Cause.   BH05505

O people of the Bayan! The All-Merciful hath come with clear proof. Fear ye God and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH04106

O people of the Bayan! Cast aside what ye possess and take what ye have been given on this mighty, resplendent Day.  BH02652

O people of the Bayan! Follow not that party, and deliver yourselves from the obstructing and intervening smoke.  BH02650

O people of the Bayan! Hearken unto My call, then put your trust in God, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Mighty.   BH08632

O people of the Bayan! By God, the All-Merciful hath come and the matter hath been decided by One mighty and powerful.   BH09900

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and commit not that which would cause the clamor of nations to be raised  BH08413

O people of the Bayan! By God, the Truth! The Expected One hath appeared and we have truly submitted ourselves unto Him.   BH04029

O people of the Bayan, grieve not over this, but put your trust in God - in Him let them that profess His unity place their trust.   BH02319

O people of the Bayan! Aid your Lord through the hosts of deeds. Thus have We commanded you before and in this wondrous Tablet.   BH06453

Fear God, O people of the Bayan, and corrupt not the earth after its reformation, neither shed blood nor follow every sinful idolater.  BH03397

O people of the Bayan! Be fair in the name of your Lord, the All-Merciful. If you deny Him Who speaks the truth, to whom will you turn?   BH03440

O people of the Bayan! Do ye deny Him Who was among you, from Whom in every moment there dawned upon you suns of glory and majesty   BH01834

O people of the Bayan! By the life of the All-Merciful, you are worshippers of idols. Fear God and follow not every heedless remote one.   BH04160

O people of the Bayan! Hearken unto the call of this Prisoner. He commandeth you to observe that which God hath ordained in all the Tablets.   BH05852

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the Most Merciful, and oppose not Him through Whom the proof hath been perfected and the evidence made manifest   BH04018

O people of the Bayan! By the life of God! I have not claimed that which ye possess, nor do I desire to establish for Myself that which ye have.  BH06384

Beware, O people of the Bayan, lest ye create discord in the Cause and dispute in God's religion - this is better for you than that which ye do.  BH04443

he was counseled by the Babis not to criticize and find fault with their deeds, just as they themselves practiced concealment and overlooked [faults].  BH11221

O people of the Bayan, be ye not disturbed by this, but place your trust in God, the Lord of all worlds...O people of the Bayan, follow Me in all this  BH03882

O people of the Bayan! Beware lest ye reject the truth with your mouths. Observe, then judge with fairness concerning this Most Great Announcement   BH04061

O people of the Bayan! Draw not nigh unto them, neither accept their words, if ye desire to hear God's decree within yourselves and then unto Him return.  BH00084

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and follow not the dawning-places of idle fancies who have turned away from God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH05851

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful and be not of those who have broken God's covenant and His pledge, and denied what was sent down from His presence.   BH07233

"O people of the Bayan! Fear the Most Merciful and follow not your idle fancies. Follow that which ye have been commanded by One All-Knowing, All-Informed."   BH04235

O people of the Bayan! By the life of God, if anyone in this Revelation should miss a single matter, he shall never be able to make amends for it, now or ever.  BH08495

O people of the Bayan, hesitate not in this Cause which is more manifest than any manifestation and more wondrous than any wonder. Be not of those who turn away   BH02405

Fear God, O people of the Bayan, and dispute not with Him for Whose meeting the denizens of the Highest Paradise and those who dwell in the Ark of Grandeur yearn.  BH11415

O people of the Bayan, die in your wrath! By God, the True One, the King, sovereignty on that Day belongeth unto God, the One, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Subduer.   BH06182

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and follow not your idle fancies. Follow Him through Whom the proof hath been established and the evidence made clear.   BH04227

O people of the Bayan! Cling not to names as did the people before you. Fear God and be not of the idolaters. This is the Day of God wherein none save Him is mentioned.  BH00102

O people of the Bayan! Your Lord, the All-Merciful, hath come with manifest sovereignty. Fear ye God and deny not Him for Whose path the blood of those near unto God was shed.   BH03086

O people of the Bayan! Do ye deny Him Whose meeting ye were promised in all the Tablets? Alas for you and for those whom ye have taken as lords for yourselves besides God!  BH04143

O Concourse of the Bayan! The books of the world profit you not this day except through this Book which speaketh before the faces of the nations. Cast aside vain imaginings.   BH07375

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful and follow not those who have denied the proof of God and His evidence after they were revealed in truth from this swift Pen.   BH06710

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and follow not every sinful liar who hath barred you from the path of God and led you astray from this manifest announcement.   BH07138

O people of the Bayan! Do ye rest in your homes after the Ancient Beauty hath been exiled and settled in lands where none of its people, neither noble nor base, recognize Him?   BH00287

O people of the Bayan! Have mercy upon your Lord, the All-Merciful, and oppose Him not after He hath come unto you with the verses of your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH02084

The people of the Bayan are seen today to be more veiled than the people of the Furqan. By God's life! They have no share of this Most Great Ocean, nor any path to this Straight Way.   BH00173

"O people of the Bayan! By the life of God, the Point of the Furqan and the Point of the Bayan bewail you in the most exalted Paradise. Fear ye God and be not of the oppressors."  BH01140

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and be not of the wrongdoers. The horizons have been filled with the signs of your Lord. Be fair-minded, and be not of the abased ones.   BH06876

O people of the Bayan! Do ye dispute with Him Who hath come unto you with a proof wherewith all who are in the highest heavens could not prevail? Fear God and be of the righteous.   BH04292

O people of the Bayan! He speaketh not of His own desire - to this beareth witness what hath been sent down from My Most Exalted Pen. Fear God and follow not every heedless doubter.  BH00518

O people of the Bayan! Detach yourselves from whatsoever hindereth you from God and from recognizing the Manifestation of His Self, and turn unto Him with faces radiant and resplendent.   BH08680

O people of the Bayan! By God, the All-Merciful hath come, and He cannot be indicated by the indications in the books of earth, nor by what the Daysprings of existence have uttered.   BH04808

O Concourse of the Bayan! The All-Merciful hath come, and there hath been raised on His right hand the banner "He is God" and on His left the standard "He doeth whatsoever He willeth."   BH01311

O people of the Bayan! Cast aside your vain imaginings. Beware lest ye act as they acted aforetime. Fear the All-Merciful and be not of those who turned away from God, the Lord of Lords.  BH00138

O people of the Bayan! The banners of the Revelation have been raised in the name of the All-Merciful, and the pavilion of the Cause hath been pitched at the midmost heart of contingent being  BH06514

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful. He of Whom mention was made in the Books of God hath come, and the Point of the Bayan gave glad-tidings of Him, would that ye might know!  BH03156

Therefore, O people of the Bayan, be fair, for they said exactly what ye say today. Do ye enjoin righteousness upon men while forgetting for yourselves the melodies of God and then deny them?   BH02982

O people of the Bayan! By God, the Quickener of all creation hath come! Detach yourselves from all who are on earth, then turn unto God, the King, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling.  BH05074

"O people of the Bayan, We behold you as We beheld them. Soon shall ye reap from the trees of your deeds the fruits which they reaped before. Take ye heed, O ye who are endued with insight!"  BH03259

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful. He hath claimed neither Guardianship, nor the station of Mirrors, nor Custodianship. He hath manifested what the Mighty, the Powerful hath sent down.  BH02652

O concourse of the Bayan! By the True God, heedlessness and intoxication have seized you more severely than the peoples of old, and this is testified to by this truthful and trustworthy Pen.   BH01531

O ye who were created in the Bayan through My verses to know Him, be not veiled from Him for Whom the entire Bayan is but as a ring upon the finger of His Will and a leaf in the paradise of His Cause.  BH00015

"O people of the Bayan! Have ye denied the All-Merciful after that through which My wisdom was made manifest amongst the servants and through which the standards of the Cause were raised in all lands?"  BH04251

O people of the Bayan! Be fair in the Cause of your Lord, the All-Merciful. Do ye deny the waves while beholding them? Come ye, come ye, that I may show you what was hidden from eternity of eternities.  BH09698

O people! By God, the entire Bayan was revealed in My remembrance and praise. Be ye ashamed before God Who created you by His command and gave you glad tidings of this resplendent, luminous Beauty.  BH01937

O people of the Bayan, cast aside what ye possess and take what ye have been given from the presence of an ancient Bestower. The Bayan profiteth you not except through this mighty and exalted Book.  BH06645

O people of the Bayan! Cast the names behind you, turning unto the ocean of inner meanings which surgeth before your faces and from whose waves is heard The Truth hath come with manifest sovereignty.  BH11874

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful and follow not the desires of those who have denied the Day of Judgment. Whoso objecteth to this Cause hath indeed objected to God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH00835

O people of the Bayan! By God, the All-Merciful hath come with a sovereignty that your vain imaginings cannot withhold, nor what ye possess of the tales of old. Fear God and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH07882

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and oppose not Him through Whom the decree of God hath been established, both in the past and in the future. Be fair-minded, and be not of the wrongdoers   BH06658

O people of the Bayan, have mercy upon yourselves and waste not the Cause of Him Who was promised in the Tablets. Fear God and doubt not His Cause, for verily He hath appeared with manifest sovereignty.   BH03031

And from the depths of the pit He crieth out saying: "O people of the Bayan! Be fair, by God, and look upon that which hath been sent down from before the Throne, and be not tyrannous oppressors in the land."  BH02266

O people of the Bayan! Were ye to awaken even slightly and ascend somewhat toward the holy heaven of the Eternal Sovereign, ye would realize how ye have divided the blessed, universal, and eternal Word.   BH00775

O people of the Bayan! By the life of the All-Merciful! He desired no mention from among all mentions except for the drawing near of the servants and their turning to God, the Lord of the Day of Return.   BH00654

O people of the Bayan! Are diverse lords better, or God, the One Powerful, Mighty, Peerless? Hold fast unto God and detach yourselves from all else - this is better for you, if you be of those who know.   BH03148

Beware, O people of the Bayan! Have mercy upon yourselves and upon the souls of the servants, and be not like the people of the Furqan when the Most High came unto them with luminous Tablets of holiness.   BH01392

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful and follow not every accursed Satan. By God! He hath come through Whose praise and mention the Bayan was honored - to this do those who are fair-minded bear witness.   BH07188

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful and follow not your idle fancies. Follow Him Who hath come with the truth by a command whereagainst all who are in the heavens and earth are powerless to stand.  BH01292

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful and follow not your own selves. Follow Him Who hath come with the hosts of divine inspiration from the horizon of the heaven of your Lord's power, the Self-Subsisting.   BH02331

O people of the Bayan! Be fair in the name of God and follow not the desires of those who were behind the veil and who, when We revealed the Cause, came forth and uttered that which even the idolaters had not said.  BH00024

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful. This is the Primal Point, Who circles round the Throne and proclaims with His most exalted call: "O my people! This is He Whom I gave you glad tidings of in the Books of God"  BH02712

O people of the Bayan! He Who was treasured in knowledge and concealed from eyes hath come. Cast behind you your vain imaginings and turn yourselves toward the horizon which God hath made the Dawning-place of lights.  BH07076

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, then judge with fairness concerning that which hath appeared at this Station which God hath made the point round which circle them who are nigh unto Him from all eternity.   BH03131

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful. Do ye object to Him Whom God hath made the Dawning-Place of His power and sovereignty, and made the Bayan a gift unto His Own Self? Fear God and follow not every doubting idolator.   BH10638

O people of the Bayan! The Chosen One took from you the covenant of My Self in the atoms of the Bayan before the mention of His own Self. Beware lest ye break God's covenant, for whoso breaketh it is indeed in manifest loss.  BH00949

O concourse of the Bayan! Your mention beseemeth you not, for ye are the most veiled of all people before the Self-Sufficient, the Most High. We have rent asunder some of the veils for you that ye might recognize the others.   BH00898

O people of the Bayan! By the life of the All-Merciful! Until ye pass beyond the gulf of names, ye shall not enter the Most Great Ocean nor receive your portion. Abandon these names which have become the cause of the veiling of all.  BH03018

O people of the Bayan! Consider the time as precious and arise to make good what hath passed you by. Return unto your Lord, the All-Merciful, with humility and penitence. Verily, He is the Ever-Forgiving, the Pardoner, the Merciful.  BH04857

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, then judge with fairness concerning this Cause, whereof Muhammad the Apostle of God gave tidings, and the One Who conversed with God warned of, and the Spirit gave glad-tidings of.  BH02279

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and believe in Him Who hath come to you with a mighty sovereignty, on His right hand the hosts of revelation and inspiration, and on His left the angels and the Spirit, if ye be of them that know.   BH01830

O people of the Bayan! The All-Merciful hath come, and that which ye possess shall profit you not this day. Cast it aside in My Name, then turn ye toward the light of the Face, as commanded by God, the Ordainer, the Most Praiseworthy.   BH05475

O people of the Bayan! Whither do ye flee? The word of chastisement hath been fulfilled against him who hath denied the All-Merciful in this Revelation which hath shone forth from the horizon of all existence with manifest sovereignty.   BH01823

O people of the Bayan! Reckon ye to be treading the path of the spirit even as ye have rejected this Revelation? Nay, by my Beauty, which God hath ordained as the manifestation of His own Beauty amongst all the former and latter generations!   BH00334

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful and be not of those who disbelieved in Muhammad, the Messenger of God, when He came with the truth, and turned away from the Spirit when He appeared from the presence of a Mighty, Ancient One.   BH04021

O people of the Bayan! The head of wisdom is the fear of God. Fear ye Him Who created you and raised you to the heavens of knowledge, and sent down unto you wisdom and utterance, and made you to be among those endowed with understanding.   BH04003

O people of the Bayan! It behooveth no one to test the Dawning-Places of God's Revelation...Yet the Wronged One summoneth you and biddeth you to present yourselves that ye may hear that which is sent down from the heaven of the Will of God  BH06819

Therefore, O people of the Bayan, forsake all that ye have been forbidden and then act according to that which ye have been commanded in a preserved Book of might from the Pen of the Beloved of might - this is better for you than all that ye hear   BH09441

O people of the Bayan! Have ye forbidden what God hath made lawful unto you, or have ye made lawful what He hath forbidden, or have ye altered His decree from what was revealed in the Tablets of God, the Omnipotent, the Mighty, the Gracious?   BH00845

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and spread not corruption in the earth after it hath been set in order, neither commit that which is unseemly. Purify yourselves from whatsoever hath been forbidden in the Book of God, the Most High, the Most Great.  BH10130

O people of the Bayan! By what proof did ye believe in the All-Merciful, and by what evidence did ye turn away from Him Who, when He appeared, caused the Spirit to proclaim before His face: "The Hidden One hath appeared with manifest sovereignty!"   BH05424

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and dispute not with Him Who hath endured that which no one in all lands hath endured, Who hath suffered the arrows of the polytheists for twenty years, and Who hath arisen to establish the Cause with sovereignty and power.   BH01479

O people of the Bayan! Stand firm in the Cause when trials shall come upon you from all directions nigh. Know then that We were among you for numbered years, and every day thereof We recited unto you from the verses of God, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.   BH02281

O people of the Bayan, present yourselves before the Divine Countenance that ye may hear the verses at the time of their revelation. Beware lest the ignorant ones among the people who have denied God's verses prevent you from this bounty, the Lord of lords.   BH03051

O people of the Bayan! Fear the Most Merciful and follow not those who have denied God's signs and His proof, and who turned away from Him when He came with manifest sovereignty. This is He Whose Covenant the Primal Point took before taking His own covenant.  BH00170

O people of the Bayan! The All-Merciful hath come with the standards of divine knowledge, though it be against your wishes. He is the One before Whose name the Point of the Bayan and the Concourse on High and the angels brought nigh have prostrated themselves.  BH11605

O people of the Bayan! Ye shall surely ask from Him Whom God shall make manifest and aid in this matter according to your ability. God shall raise up from the Manifestation of His Self one of Truth from among those who are His chosen ones and who stand firm in His Cause.  BB00003

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful. This is that Husayn Who was promised in the Book of God, the Lord of lords. Verily, He hath appeared after the Qa'im with a Cause before which all who are in earth and heaven shall not stand. Cast away your vain imaginings.   BH11161

O people of the Bayan! Verily, He hath claimed neither prophethood, nor guardianship, nor imamate, nor any name from among the names. I was asleep when the hands of divine power awakened me, I was seated when they raised me up, and I was silent when they caused me to speak.  BH00288

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful. Follow Him before Whom the verses have prostrated themselves and to Whom the necks of the proud have been humbled. Beware lest ye claim that which hath not been ordained for you by your Lord, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH00130

O people of the Bayan! Know ye that Truth hath never been, and shall never be, known except through itself, though the chiefs of the Bayan imagine that through certain verbal fabrications and false, contrived traditions they can prevent people from reaching the most great Shore.  BH11688

O people of the Bayan! Open your eyes! Today is not the day for mentioning names. Pass by that which is neither worthy nor befitting. Defile not the Day of God with mention of this one and that one. Verily He hath appeared and come, despite those who follow self and passion.  BH03661

O deniers of the Bayan! "He doeth what He willeth" hath ever been and shall ever be the truth. No affair among affairs and no deed among deeds is hidden from Him. Were they to drink from the ocean of this blessed Word, they would be enabled by the blessed words "We turn unto Thee." BH09710

O people of the Bayan! He around Whom the Bayan revolved hath come, and that which was mentioned by the tongue of the Point, Who gave the glad tidings to the servants of the appearance of Him Who conversed on Sinai, hath been made manifest in this mighty and wondrous station.  BH05234

O people of the Bayan! Deny not Him Who has come with the truth from the presence of One mighty, powerful. He has come as 'Ali came from the heaven of the Cause with manifest sovereignty, and He commands you but what 'Ali commanded before. Fear God and be not of the deniers.   BH03269

"O people of the Bayan! Ye have cast the All-Merciful behind your backs and have clung to every ignorant remote one. That which is on earth shall profit you not this day. Fear God and deny not Him through Whom the standard of God hath been raised upon every lofty and noble mountain."  BH04964

O people of the Bayan! Be fair in judging God's proof and His evidence, His glory and His grandeur and His sovereignty. Beware lest you follow those who have violated God's covenant and testament and denied what has been sent down from the heaven of His grace upon His servants.   BH03452

O people! Be not of those who name the Point of the Bayan as the Beloved while at the moment this name issueth from their mouths their eyes turn right and left in show of their longing for Him, yet they slay His very self and essence with the swords of rejection and turning away   BH01617

And ye, O people of the Bayan, hear My call at this moment and then know Me. Take heed of My counsel and beware lest ye transgress. When ye hear that the Servant hath migrated unto God, be ye not then disturbed nor grieve at anything, but be patient and be not of them who are impatient.   BH03243

O people of the Bayan! The hearts of them that are nigh unto God are bewildered at you. I know not what ye desire, O ye heedless ones! If ye seek God's signs, by God they have descended in the most wondrous utterance, to which every thing beareth witness, if ye be of them that deny.  BH02102

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Glorious, and be not veiled from Him Who hath come upon clouds of holiness with a sovereignty manifest and true. The Kingdom of God moveth at His right hand, and the dominion of Names at His left, while before Him march the hosts of might invincible.   BH00503


O people of the Bayan, judge fairly within yourselves: what is the difference between you and those whom ye denounce as unbelievers? If ye say they opposed 'Ali at the time of His manifestation, verily ye have opposed His very Self, His Spirit, and His Essence, and ye perceive it not.   BH01354

O people of the Bayan! Have mercy upon the servants. The fire of the past is not yet extinguished; ye kindle another fire. Fear God, O people, and follow not vain imaginings and idle fancies. Follow Him Who guideth you to His straight path and directeth you to the horizon of certitude.  BH00164

O people of the Bayan! If ye be in doubt concerning My religion, know ye that I have believed in God Who hath created you and created all things, and I will never follow you in your vain imaginations. I have been commanded to worship none but Him, and I am the first of them that worship.  BH01053

O people of the Bayan! Remember within yourselves what We have mentioned unto you in truth from this hidden and luminous Pen, and grieve not over anything... Be not veiled, O people of the Bayan, from this bounty which hath descended from the holy heaven while ye witness it with your own eyes.   BH01915

O concourse of the Bayan! This is the Best-Beloved of all created things, Who hath come with the kingdom of verses, while ye remain heedless. Was this Revelation made conditional upon any stipulation? Was this Cause in your hands or in God's hand? Be discerning, and be not of the ignorant ones.   BH00566

Then remind the people of the Bayan there. Say: "Have ye denied your Lord, the All-Merciful, after He came upon the clouds of explanation with a mighty proof?" Say: "Fear ye God and cast not the Truth behind your backs. Take what ye have been given from the presence of One All-Knowing, All-Wise."  BH01530

O people of the Bayan! Be fair in God's sight, then acknowledge that which hath been sent down from the Kingdom of God's knowledge, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. By God's life! The books of the world cannot compare with that which hath been sent down in truth, were ye of them that judge fairly.  BH00043

O concourse of the Bayan! Draw ye near unto this Fire which hath been kindled in this wilderness and hath appeared upon the Temple of the Square in the form of the Triangle, and which speaketh forth the truth at every moment that there is none other God but I, the Protector, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH01363

O people of the Bayan! Cleave ye unto the Book of the Temples which the All-Merciful hath sent down unto His Name, the Judge. Verily, it is the hidden knowledge, the treasured secret, and the preserved symbol which God hath deposited in the heart of him whom He named the Judge in the kingdom of the Bayan.  BH00085

O people of the Bayan! We have singled you out for the recognition of Our Self amidst all the worlds, and have drawn you nigh unto the right shore beside the Spot of Paradise -- the station whereat the Fire proclaimeth in all melodies that there is none other God but Me, the Most High, the Most Great.  BH00597

O concourse of the Bayan! This is the Best-Beloved of all possible worlds, Who hath come with the Kingdom of verses, yet ye remain heedless. Was this Revelation made conditional upon any conditions, and doth the Cause rest in your hands or in the hand of God? Consider well, and be not of the ignorant.   BH00564

O people of the Bayan! By God, ye have perpetrated that which hath caused the Primal Point and the Concourse on High and those settled in the Kingdom of Names to lament. Ye have committed that which none in the world hath committed, and perpetrated that which none among the peoples of the earth hath perpetrated.   BH01090

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye your Lord, the All-Merciful, dispute not with Him, and oppose Him not. Fear God, O heedless ones! Say: O people of the Bayan! If ye persist in your ways, why then did ye leave the community of the Furqan and enter into the party of God, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Great?   BH01024

Beware, O people of the Bayan, lest that which was revealed in the Bayan withhold you from His presence, or its letters prevent you from recognizing Him... Be fair, O people of the Bayan - ye were commanded not to look this Day to the Bayan and its letters, but rather to that which the Revealer of verses ordaineth for you.   BH05464

"O people of the Bayan! Have ye disbelieved in the One through Whom ye believed in God aforetime? Here is My Beauty, which hath been revealed through His grace; yet have ye allowed them that are the manifestations of names in the kingdom of creation to shut you out therefrom; notwithstanding that they were all created by His Word."  BH03669

Fear ye God, O people of the Bayan, then fear ye Me. Verily I am the Mirror of God, my Lord; all turn unto Me. Verily I commune from the most exalted horizon. I hear what ye utter and observe what ye do. No seeker shall petition Me through the Bayan but that I shall grant it for the sake of God, the All-Powerful, the Self-Subsisting. BB00437

O people of the Bayan! Return unto Me alone, for I address you with the tongue of the unseen, declaring: There is no God but I. By God, I have wept at these words in such wise that none can reckon save God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting. It is as though I perceived His sorrow and all that would befall Him through your evil surmises.  BH00029

O people of the Bayan! Neither your clamor nor what ye possess can hinder Him, for He hath come with a power that the might of the world cannot weaken, and with a sovereignty that the barking of the barkers cannot impede. Where were ye when the Wronged One lay beneath chains and fetters, and where were ye when He was in the hands of the idolaters?  BH01788

O people of the Bayan! Come ye, come ye! By what proof did ye believe in the Primal Point? Bring it forth, then read what hath been sent down from the presence of the Truth, the Knower of things unseen. If ye deny the Revelation of God, His Cause, and the effects and influence of the Supreme Pen, by what cause was that which ye possess established?  BH00100

O people of the Bayan! Were ye not commanded in the tablets of God to behold Him with His own eyes and not to be veiled on the Day of His Manifestation by what was revealed in the Bayan, nor by its letters and mirrors? Yet ye have violated God's covenant and His testament, and have clung to fancy and desire, and become of those who have turned away.   BH00854

O people of the Bayan! By God, the Truth! The Sun of Knowledge hath risen from the horizon of glory and hath dawned from the chambers of the Ridvan Garden - this Youth, upon Whose countenance shineth the radiance of the All-Bountiful, in Whose hand is the Wine of Life, and Who giveth drink to all created things in My Most Glorious Name, this crimson Wine.  BH00049

O people of the Bayan! Do ye claim faith within yourselves and seek to prove your cause through My verses revealed aforetime, yet deny My Self? Alas for you, O company of polytheists! By the True One! Ye have committed that which no peoples before you have committed, as doth bear witness the Tongue of God, the True, the Speaking, the Trustworthy King.   BH04297

O people of the Bayan! Fear your Lord, the All-Merciful, and dispute not with Him Who hath dawned from the horizon of the Cause with manifest sovereignty. O people! Fear God and deny not Him around Whom circle the proof and the evidence, Who came in the shadows of the clouds when the matter was decreed by God, the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Loving.   BH01466

O people of the Bayan! By God, that which ye possess, and all that the world possesseth, shall profit you not this Day. God's Book beareth witness to this, if ye be of them that hear. The veils of idle fancy have prevented you from gazing toward the Most Exalted Horizon, and vain imaginings from hearkening unto the Word of God, Lord of the mighty Throne.  BH11608

O people of the Bayan and whosoever hath believed in God and His verses in the realm of exposition! Hearken unto that which the Dove of Identity warbleth unto you from the uttermost heights of Its ecstasy in the love of God and the pinnacle of Its passionate longing for God, Its self-effacement and Its subsistence in God, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling.   BH00788

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and utter not that which the people of the Furqan uttered, who claimed faith throughout the ages, yet when the Manifestation thereof came unto them with the standards of signs, they slew Him with such injustice as caused the dwellers of the highest Paradise and the inmates of the pavilion of glory to lament in an exalted station.  BH00174

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and destroy not His House of Command with hands of hatred, and demolish not its pillars through the promptings of self and passion. Fear God Who created you through the manifestation of His Self and sent unto you that whereby the eyes of eternity were consoled by His beauty, but ye are wrapped in the veils of your selves among the dead.  BH00061

O people of the Bayan! The Hidden Treasure hath appeared, and He Who was concealed in God's knowledge, the Lord of all men, hath been made manifest. Say: The Sun hath risen, and the Light hath shone forth, and the Fire in the Tree on Sinai doth call aloud and give glad-tidings unto the people of this Revelation which was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of Lords.  BH00162

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful, and turn not away from Him by Whom the horizon of divine knowledge hath been illumined and the Nightingale warbleth upon the branches. Verily, there is none other God but Him, the Truth, the Knower of the unseen. By God! The Bayan was sent down for My remembrance, the Book for My Name, and the Tablets for this irrevocable Cause.  BH00700

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful. Cast behind you the idols of names, turning unto God, the One, the Alone, the Omnipotent, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving. This is a Day wherein none save Him is mentioned, as attesteth the Mother Book which is with Him. Say: Fear God, O people of the Bayan, and deny not Him Who hath come unto you with God's signs and sovereignty.   BH00607

O people of the Bayan! Cast aside your vain imaginings. The Sun of Certitude hath shone forth from the horizon of God's will, the Lord of the earths and the heavens. He who loved Me hath made mention of thee and hath spoken My praise, and We have sent thee from the direction of the Prison that which shall assist thee in guiding those who have broken the Covenant and the Testament.  BH00136

Be fair, O people of the Bayan, concerning this Book which God hath made the point round which circle all the books of the world, and this Remembrance before which all remembrances bow down. Say: Present yourselves before the Face that your eyes may behold what no eyes have seen and your ears may hear what no ears have heard. Fear God, O people, and be not of them that go astray.   BH01288

O people of the Bayan! Be ye ashamed before your Lord, the All-Merciful. He hath now appeared from the horizon of creation with manifest sovereignty, and He saith, pointing with His blessed finger to this Head, addressing them: "This is He of Whose meeting We gave you tidings and commanded you to bow down before His gate and took from you His covenant, O company of the wrongdoers!"   BH02514

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful. He hath come through Whose name the gates of grace, bounty and bestowals were opened before the faces of all who are in earth and heaven. Fear God and follow not the oppressors who have denied God's proof and evidence, disbelieved in His signs, remained heedless of His sovereignty and turned away from His holy and glorious countenance.   BH00574

O people of the Bayan! We see you more veiled than these, for ye have turned away from Him through Whom the Bayan began and by Whose mighty mention it was sealed. You have rejected the Cause of God and turned away from Him through Whom every wise command appeared. All good hath been made dependent upon His mention and every matter upon His leave, were ye but among those who understand.   BH00876

O people of the Bayan! The Kingdom of Utterance is stirred by the Word of the All-Merciful, while ye are gathered in the clay around earthworms, wasting your lives in idle talk and disputation. By God's life! Ye are seen to be deprived even of the mirage, let alone the ocean of inner meanings. O ye who are devoid of fairness! Turn with pure sight toward the Most Great Scene and speak with truthfulness.  BH00036

O people of the Bayan! Come ye, come ye! By what proof did ye believe in the Point of the Bayan? Bring it forth, then read what hath been sent down from the presence of the Truth, the Knower of things unseen. If ye deny the appearance of God and His Cause and the effects and influence of the Most Exalted Pen, by what proof can that which ye possess be established? Be fair, and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH01743

O people of the Bayan! Reflect upon these two souls: the first is Al-Ashraf, whom neither love of the world nor its ornaments and colors prevented from sacrificing his spirit in His path, exalted be He; and the second is Hadi and his words and the preservation of his life. The martyrdom of the first is a truthful witness to steadfastness and acknowledgment, and the life of the second to wavering and denial.  BH00224

O people of the Bayan! Did not God announce unto you in the Book this Revelation in a language of manifest truth, in that which was revealed unto the Great One when he inquired about God's Hidden Name, and He answered him in truth saying: "Verily, he is the son of 'Ali, an Imam of indubitable truth." And this was the last that was revealed concerning this irrevocable, mighty, transcendent and powerful Cause.   BH01596

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and confuse not the matter to yourselves. Verily His melodies and His words and all that hath appeared from Him cannot be confused with aught else, could ye but understand. Can the buzzing of the fly be mistaken for the cooing of the Dove, or the croaking of the raven for the scratching of the Most Exalted Pen? Nay, by the Self of Baha, were ye to ponder the verses of your Lord.   BH01036

O people of the Bayan, remember, then observe what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds. Say: O company of the heedless, fear God and oppose not Him through Whom the banner of divine knowledge hath been raised to the highest station of possibility, and through Whom the ocean of utterance hath surged and the sweet savors of the All-Merciful have wafted.  BH00050

O people of the Bayan! By God, the tongues of the All-Merciful have given the lie to your claims that ye believe in God, the Almighty, the Powerful, the Omnipotent. For ye claimed within yourselves that ye had believed in God and in His Manifestation Who was named 'Ali before Nabil, yet when His Messenger came with authority from the divine Command upon clouds of holiness in the most exalted Paradise, ye denied Him and rejected Him  BH01547

O party of God throughout all lands! Rend asunder with the fingers of power all veils, that ye may attain unto the lights of true unity. Today is the Day of God; none else is mentioned or existeth save Him. Take ye what hath been given unto you from God, the Lord of all worlds. Make firm your resolve, lest turbans and staffs and robes once again become the cause of vain imaginings and afflict helpless souls in the pit of doubts and fancies.  BH00109

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful. By God! He hath come around Whom the Point of the Bayan hath revolved, accompanied by a company of the near-stationed angels. Say: Judge fairly, by God, concerning this Cause whereby the feet of the deniers have slipped - they who have disbelieved in God and His signs, and have turned away from this Momentous Announcement. Verily, they who dispute the signs of God are among the companions of hellfire.  BH11578

O people! I have come to you from the Orient of your Lord's command, the Most High, the Most Great. This is God's Tablet which hath come from the presence of the Lord of Names. Fear God and be not of the mischief-makers. Fear God and commit not that which causeth the Primal Point to lament in the Most Glorious Paradise. Read ye what hath been sent down in the Bayan and follow not those who have denied God - verily they are the companions of the Fire.  BH02635

Behold how the people of the Bayan have failed to understand that whatsoever the Herald of My Beauty and the Manifestation before Me uttered was in contemplation of this Revelation and its establishment. Otherwise, by His true Self, they would not have uttered a single word of what they said. These ignorant ones have considered the Cause of the Self-Subsisting, the Most High, as child's play. Each day they move according to some fancy and wander in some wilderness.  BH00135

O people of the Bayan! He Who is the Lord of all religions hath appeared with a Cause before which no cause can stand, and with a sovereignty that no earthly forces can weaken. He Who hath with Him the Mother Book beareth witness unto this. Say: Verily, He is with you and heareth your utterances. With Him is the knowledge of all things preserved in a Manifest Tablet. Say: Behold, then judge with equity that which hath appeared from Him. He guideth you unto His Straight Path.   BH00514

If ye believe not in the Exalted One (the Bab), why do ye wage war against His Beloved with the swords of rejection? If ye show no mercy to Him, then have mercy upon yourselves and be not of the wrongdoers. Soon shall the angels of chastisement come unto you, and ye shall behold with your own eyes that which ye neglected, and ye shall say: Would that we had never been born, never been suckled, and never denied Him of Whom we were promised in the Tablets of God, the King, the Mighty, the Generous!  BH06472

Thou art the One Who, O my God, counseled them in Thy mighty Book and didst say: "O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and deny not Him Who hath made the Bayan to be but a leaf amongst the leaves of His Paradise. Verily it was a gift from Me unto Him. Should He accept it, He, verily, is the Most Bountiful, and should He cast it away and reject it, He, verily, is the Just Judge in His judgment, the Praiseworthy in His deeds, and the Obeyed in His commands. To none is given the right to object to Him."   BH00208

Do ye imagine, O people of the Bayan and all who are on earth, that ye have believed in God and will not be tested thereafter? Nay, God will surely test you through His Cause that He may distinguish those who are upon truth from God's presence and are steadfast in God's religion. God shall soon annihilate your bodies and erase your traces and your names and all that ye have pursued and gathered unto yourselves and stored in your houses, and shall return you on the Day when the Sovereign of Eternity shall come with manifest dominion.  BH08141

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful and speak not that which would cause the hearts of them who are nigh unto God to burn. He hath come as He willeth. The command is in God's hands - He ordaineth what He pleaseth. Verily He is the Almighty, the Powerful. Look ye at what He possesseth, not at what ye possess. This is what We counsel you in the Tablets. Read them and follow not the ways of the calumniators. Say: If ye deny Him Who speaketh between earth and heaven, unto whom will ye turn? Consider, if ye be of the truthful.   BH00950

O ye people of the Bayan! By the righteousness of God, this is My beauty with which I pride Myself in My realm, and the denizens of My celestial kingdom seek blessings from My presence. Nay, rather, all else move by His Will, He verily is powerful over all that He willeth and He is the Gracious, the All-Bountiful. He appeared amongst you with such power that astonished them that devoutly worship Him. He rose alone before all that dwell in the heavens and earth with the power bestowed by Us and I, verily, am the Almighty, the All-Glorious.  BH11698

O people of the Bayan! Keep yourselves apart from such as these, and turn not unto a people with whom God is wroth and whom He hath seized with vengeance from His presence. He, verily, is the most severe in punishment. Hasten unto God's good-pleasure and His satisfaction, then take up your abode in the secure station of this mighty Stronghold. Beware that ye draw not nigh unto them who have denied all the verses, whose eyes are veiled from My remembrance, and whose ears are wrapped in coverings from hearkening unto My holy, wondrous Words.  BH00682

Consider the people of the Bayan - though they count themselves among the most exalted of creation, they are seen to be several degrees lower than other religions. Some have made arguments about Him Whom God shall make manifest yet remained deprived of His presence. They have clung to the Bayan while being barred from the One Who revealed it, even though the Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - hath said in the fifteenth chapter of the third Vahid, these exalted words: None knoweth the time of the Revelation except God.  BH00094

O people of the Bayan! How excellent is what ye have done unto My Person and what ye were enjoined in all the Tablets from God! By God, O Ali! There remained not a single Tablet but that He informed them of My Cause, gave them glad-tidings of My Being, spoke unto them of My signs, and acquainted them with My mention. Yet, despite this, they did unto My Person what no one hath ever done unto anyone, and God sufficeth as witness unto this - after I had manifested My Self with sovereignty of might and power, and beyond that with proof that encompassed all worlds.  BH00032

O people of the Bayan! Fix your gaze upon this Word, which is of the pearls of the ocean of divine knowledge, and ponder it: Until ye recognize the falsehood of the past, ye shall not testify to the truth of today and shall remain deprived of the ocean of truthfulness. God, with perfect grace and kindness, offereth counsel and commandeth that which causeth the exaltation and elevation of His Cause. O ye essences! Today is the day of testing and the day of supreme profit. Waste not the moments which are more precious than red sulphur, and strive to manifest that which beseemeth and behooveth man.  BH00119

O people of the Bayan! If ye aid Him not, God will assuredly assist Him with the powers of earth and heaven, and sustain Him with the hosts of the unseen through His command Be, and it is! The day is approaching when God will have, by an act of His Will, raised up a race of men the nature of which is inscrutable to all save God, the All-Powerful, the Self-Subsisting. He shall purify them from the defilement of idle fancies and corrupt desires, shall lift them up to the heights of holiness, and shall cause them to manifest the signs of His sovereignty and might upon earth. Thus hath it been ordained by God, the All-Glorious, the All-Loving.  BH00007
