Say: O people of the Furqan! Do ye bar men from the path of God while ye claim to be Muslims?   BH03846

Say: O Concourse of the Qur'an! The All-Merciful hath come. Fear ye God and be not of them that deny.   BH07375

And the Qur'an calls humanity unto the Truth Who was promised by the Most Exalted Pen in a preserved tablet.  BH06042

If the followers of the Qur'an would but ponder a single verse, they would find their way to the Straight Path and the Most Great Announcement.  BH01632

Say: O people of the Furqan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, then judge with fairness concerning that which hath appeared in truth, and be not of the transgressors.  BH04107

O people of the Furqan! By God, the All-Merciful hath come, and that which was hidden in knowledge hath been revealed. Fear ye God, and be not of them that hesitate.  BH00333

"Say: O people of the Furqan! Have ye not heard the call of your Lord, the All-Merciful, in His words 'On the day when all men shall stand before the Lord of the worlds'?"  BH01140

O people of the Furqan (Qur'an), fear God and follow not your vain desires. He guides you to the Dawning-Place of lights. Cast aside what you possess and take what is with God, the Lord of all men.   BH06673

Say: O people of Mecca, fear God and know that the proof of your Lord has descended unto His servant as tablets from a preserved Book, that perchance people may believe in God and His signs and be upon a straight path.   BB00333

O concourse of the Furqan! Hearken unto the call of the All-Merciful from the Mount of Knowledge. Verily it draweth you nigh unto Him and guideth you unto His straight path. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of this most great favor.   BH00493

"Say: O people of the Qur'an, know ye your station! Ye made mention of Me throughout ages and centuries, yet when the fingers of might rent asunder the veils and shrouds, ye pronounced judgment against Me with such tyranny as caused the pillars to tremble."  BH03259

Say: O concourse of the Quran! Fear ye the All-Merciful and follow not your idle fancies. Hearken unto the Call which, verily, hath been raised in truth, and take hold of the Book of God with the strength that proceedeth from Him, and be not of the heedless.  BH11515

Say: O people of the Furqan! Hearken unto the call of your Lord, the All-Merciful. Verily it hath been raised in the prison before the faces of all religions. Follow not your selfish desires, but follow Him Who calleth you unto God, the One, the All-Informed.  BH01060

O people of the Furqan! By God, that which ye were promised in the Book hath appeared. Fear ye God and deny not the Cause of God when it hath appeared with the truth, and dispute not the signs of God when they have been sent down from this heaven. Turn ye unto God, your Ancient Lord.  BH01815

O people of the Qur'an! By God, the All-Merciful Spirit hath lamented because of your deeds when He came from the heaven of utterance with clear sovereignty. Ye have denied Him by Whose leave all things were created, and turned away from Him unto Whom every radiant countenance hath been directed.   BH00566

Return ye to the sayings of your Imams, and the sayings of your Imams return to the words of your Prophet, to that which was revealed in the Furqan. There ye find your proofs. We have taken all that was of your religion and have begun a new creation as We please through Our command 'Be!' and it is.  BB00003

At another time We address the concourse of the Furqan: Fear ye the All-Merciful, and oppose not Him through Whom all religions have been fulfilled. Say: The laws have been ordained in My Name, and the verses have been sent down for My Remembrance, which God hath made the Sovereign of all remembrance.   BH00898

O concourse of the Furqan and all who are in the heavens and on earth! Do ye follow what your desires command you and forsake Him Who created you and sustaineth you? Woe unto you, O company of Muslims! Fear God and cast not the Book of God behind your backs, and deprive not yourselves of this wondrous bounty.  BH01532

O people of the Qur'an! Do ye read the Qur'an yet object to its Revealer? Then are ye in manifest error. Your deeds curse you, and what ye read from God's Book, the Mighty, the All-Praised. Abandon oppression and open your eyes with fairness that ye may behold the Sun of Utterance shining from this luminous Horizon.   BH00876

O people of Islam! After one thousand two hundred and seventy years have passed, when one of our followers, whose name is mentioned by our name in your religion and within the bounds of your faith, pronounces judgment concerning your departure from your religion - because you follow conjecture rather than truth while supposing you do well - if this be your station before one of our followers, how must it be before Us or before God, your Lord and our Lord?  BB00003
