
When We manifested the Word from the horizon of Will  BH08938

"Letter" means a person. As the world came forth from the Mouth, that person is the reflection of the Light of GOD.  ABU1942

The Spirit descendeth at all times upon My heart that We may recite the Book of thy Lord as He willeth in a clear Arabic tongue  BB00571

The realities of all things are contained in a Word that the Tongue of Grandeur uttered when He was established upon the Throne with a sovereignty that encompassed all the worlds. Verily that which is encompassed cannot know the Encompasser, and that which perceiveth cannot perceive Him Who is beyond perception. Say: The uncompounded Reality is the Primal Word. Blessed is he who hath known the purpose of God and chosen this Path as his way. Through it were all things brought into being, and in all things can be seen its revelation and its sovereignty. Know ye the melody of these words and walk ye straight upon this Path. All things begin with it and end with it. Glorified be its Creator above being known through the knowledge of His creation or being described by attributes that were limited by human understanding. How can that which is originated reach the sea of eternity, or the evanescent attain unto Him through Whose command was the Kingdom of immortality created? We created all contingent things through the Contingent Will, and it is verily the Most Great Word that appeared with a sovereignty witnessed throughout all worlds. BH04496

Praise be to God Who has shone forth with the Sun of Will upon the Kingdom of meanings and utterance, whereupon appeared the Torah, the Gospel, the Qur'an and other Books   BH02311


At the dawn of creation, the all-encompassing Creative Word was realized in human form. And when this luminous reality appeared in the realm of existence with all its stations, distinctions, determinations, characteristics, mysteries and phases, that all-encompassing Word was explained and interpreted.  AB05275

The Pen of Utterance, by the leave of the All-Merciful, sailed upon the ocean of meanings, and when by the will of the True Sovereign it emerged, several drops fell from it and appeared in the form of letters. Then a breeze from the repository of the All-Merciful Will passed over them, causing the disconnected letters to combine, and the word "Verily I am God, there is no God but Him" became manifest.   BH03888

It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal of God is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is the power of understanding. This Word is the foremost instructor in the school of existence and the revealer of Him Who is the Almighty. All that is seen is visible only through the light of its wisdom. All that is manifest is but a token of its knowledge. All names are but its name, and the beginning and end of all matters must needs depend upon it.   BH00698

Praise be to God Who uttered a Word, and lo, it appeared in one station in human form. Blessed be the All-Merciful Who caused it to speak in the realm of possibility concerning the mysteries of what is and what shall be. And in another station it appeared in the form of images, and when He breathed into it, all who are in the heavens and earth were thunderstruck, save those who held fast to God, our Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower. And in yet another station it flowed as though it were the water of life.   BH01320
