The universe is in endless progress   AB05883

Civilized and refining influences are working. Every one is thinking in the terms of progress, upward march. In the strictest sense, there is no reactionary movement in America. What is called reactionary there, is radical progressiveness in other parts of the world.  ABU2004

Man is always progressing. His circle of knowledge is ever widening, and his mental activity flows through many and varied channels. Look what man has accomplished in the field of science, consider his many discoveries and countless inventions and his profound understanding of natural law.  ABU0555

America will make rapid progress in the future  ABU3472

This progress in station belongs to this world of opposites.  AB01263

they have made various kinds of progress in all ranks and conditions   AB07415

In this age of spiritual awakening, the world has entered upon the path of progress into the arena of development   ABU3028

Paris has achieved the utmost progress in civilization and has attained success and prosperity in all material affairs  ABU0309

The contingent world is like the human body that has grown from the embryonic state and reached maturity and perfection.   ABU1375

Consider then what will happen in the future: Wait till the dawn of its fortune breaks, All this is but the result of early morn.  AB01555

Arts and crafts surged like the sea, and the realities and subtleties of the balanced and perfect nature of things reached their zenith.  AB04697

strive with heart and soul in the development and prosperity of the world so that they may become the manifestation of divine mercy in all degrees   AB06765

human perfections, virtues and characteristics, spiritual sanctification and detachment both inward and outward, divine qualities, and modern progress   AB05493

They did not understand that wondrous inventions would make East and West intimate companions, and new discoveries would make North and South confidants.   AB04679

Through justice commerce thrives, industries are developed, morals are refined, honesty is established, international comity fostered and education popularized.   ABU2628

O fellow-citizens of the Greatest Name, strive that you may make tremendous progress in all ranks, both spiritual and material.  AB03707

The sphere of thought is rejuvenated - sciences are renovated. The world of morality is resuscitated - and humankind is ushered into a new era of civilization and refinement.  ABU0206

In this radiant age, humanity has made extraordinary progress in every respect... How much has the world of industry advanced, how much has the scope of inventions expanded!   AB02189

"Think of this subject: What a difference there is between this time we are living in now, and seventy years ago! Think of the progress! the progress toward unity and peace!"  ABU1638

Among these matters is progress, among these matters is drawing near unto God - meaning the progress that would depend on fifty thousand years is achieved in one day for souls.  ABU2446

politics reaches its highest degree, wonderful industries prosper, commerce expands, courage raises its banner, the nation transfers from one plane to another, creation is renewed   AB02523


Consider how great is this century and how mighty is this age! However, those early ones were the founders of sciences and arts, and in this respect they possess excellence and virtue.  AB02372

Truly, if not for railroads and the power of steam, how could these long distances be traversed with such ease? This is one of the miracles of this promised century of our current age.   ABU2243

Yes, in the regions of the West divine civilization is necessary because material civilization has greatly progressed and increases day by day. But spiritual civilization has been neglected.  ABU1690

This age is the age of light. This century is the radiant century. This cycle is the cycle of love. This period is the period of sciences. This epoch is the epoch of universal civilization.   ABU1076

In advanced countries, despite all the available means of education and training, the wise still strive to find easier and swifter means and to excel in the education and advancement of children.  ABU0084

When man thus adorns himself, he will progress every day with new vigor; his soul will become more and more sensitized and the laws and morals of the world will be reconstructed with divine conviction  ABU1801

Consider how many sciences, arts, discoveries and achievements have come into existence since the days of Moses till the present time through the progress of the human soul in knowledge and perfections.  AB10286

The world of today is not like unto the world of former times. The many wonderful arts and inventions have completely transformed the face of the earth, making life easier and existence more comfortable.  BHU0013

Behold how great have been the advancements in this age by nations who are wholly unaware of God. They advance as day followeth day and gain ascendancy in the eyes of both strangers and their own people.  AB04707

Another characteristic of progress consists in the earnest and sincere development of public education, in the teaching of all the useful sciences and in encouraging the people to adopt the modern inventions  ABU3257

The Blessed Beauty has commanded in all Tablets the acquisition of beneficial sciences, expansion of commerce, advancement of industry, increase of agriculture, and attention to the development of the country  AB00459


In this way, the public arose, with the utmost joy, to render service to the government, and continually progressed until they reached their current degree of development. This is the requirement of the present time.  AB11815

Evolution has now reached a period in the life of nations where commerce takes the place of warfare. Business is war, cruel, merciless... Competition of commerce is as severe, trying and as cruel as wars of olden time.  ABU0125

Question: Does everything progress and, therefore, must all men advance? Answer: There is either a standstill or a progress. There could not be a descent, upon the same principle that a man could not become a babe again.   ABU3064

materially, too, all the learned men of this age agree that the advancements in knowledge, the arts, industries and inventions of this century are equal to those of the last fifty centuries, indeed, even greater than that.  ABU2329


These are the fundamental principles of progress, civilization, international peace and the unity of mankind. These are the essentials of Baha'u'llah's teachings, the secret of everlasting health, the remedy and healing for man.   ABU0790

See how, in this day, the scope of sciences and arts hath widened out, and what wondrous technical advances have been made, and to what a high degree the mind's powers have increased, and what stupendous inventions have appeared.  AB00948

Day by day they are advancing. Soon you will observe that among women, souls will arise so attracted that they will cause amazement. They will become brilliant lamps and speakers of the proofs and evidences of the Lord of Bounties.   AB04878

A nursing infant must be nurtured for years in the father's arms before reaching maturity and adulthood. Now is but the beginning of that luminous morning; gradually, rays like the dawn's light are becoming visible and perceptible.   AB00220

There is motion in all created things and movement and growth in all existing atoms. The universe is progressing and cycles are in utmost adornment and receptivity. Humankind has an abundant portion and will have an unlimited share.   AB02551

In this luminous century all matters have been renewed: sciences have been renewed, new arts have appeared, new industries have become manifest, new thoughts have emerged, new discoveries have arisen, new inventions have come forth.   ABU3137

The Glorious maturity of this world depends upon the realization of two things: the establishment of the era of Universal Peace and the discovery or appearance of the hidden science which shall renovate all the conditions of existence  ABU0929

In the world of science, manifold advancements have been achieved, how many hidden realities of creation have been discovered, and the holy power of the mind has unveiled the concealed mysteries and protected truths of the natural world   AB02189

Stagnation is the cause of retrogression. Man must always advance. As soon as man remains stationary in a certain cause he will go backward. Therefore he must strive that man may advance day by day, that he may progress in all the worlds.  ABU2380

When the American nation united, how much it led to their happiness, progress and civilization. If this unity and agreement did not exist among the United States, this progress in sciences, arts and advancement would not have been achieved.  ABU0430

They have therefore concluded that, for the advancement and progress of the nation, the development of the country, the dignity of its people, the elevation of the government, and the enhancement of its might, religious renewal is necessary  AB00472

They are always looking for results. It seems that the very convolutions and cells of their brains direct their powers in those channels of arts, industries and inventions which alleviate the sufferings of mankind and bring about better conditions.   ABU3195

mature souls who have attained reason and wisdom derive no benefit or portion from children's games and toys, nor do they seek contamination. Rather, they partake of and engage in important undertakings that yield magnificent results and attend to weighty matters  AB02994

The American people have a real love for advancement. They are not content to stand still. They are most energetic and progressive. When you see a tree growing and developing, be hopeful of its outcome. It will blossom and bear fruit eventually. If you see dry wood or old trees, there is no hope whatever of fruitage.  ABU0120


Consider material things, which are a symbol of spiritual things. For example, all human inventions and material discoveries in early centuries do not compare to a single power of telegraph, phonograph, photography, telephone, electrical power, and wireless communication.   AB03186

Strive for modern progress and make mighty efforts for sacred civilization... Similarly, strive and make effort in promoting industries and discovering new inventions, expanding the scope of commerce and industry, establishing the customs of civilization, adorning the country  AB00506

Therefore, a wonderful movement and stirring has occurred in the world of existence, and a mighty blessing and revival has appeared. Minds have ascended and understanding has intensified. Movements have become rapid and progress in all ranks has manifested with utmost power.   AB04779

In each age a great, impelling idea has been born and developed. There has been an age of scholasticism and oratory, another age belonging to the development of philosophy and natural sciences. The last age was the age of freedom and the march of democracy throughout many lands.  ABU1066

The science of aviation will make great progress in the immediate future and people will travel at ease from one city to another city without any danger. It will become as popular as automobiles. Just as now every well to do person has an automobile, then they will have an aeroplane.  ABU2998

Day unto day man will advance; the minds will develop; the souls will be refined; the world of morality will become illumined; man will discover the reality of phenomena, will unfathom the Mysteries of God. Then he will become the Perfect Man and will be in the Image and likeness of God.   ABU0827

This cycle and dispensation cannot be compared to former ages, for previous eras were but a ray of this era, and former centuries but a token of this century. Observe ye the progress and exaltation of this mighty century, which is distinguished in all aspects and conditions. It is the sun of all ages and centuries - its traces brilliant, its lights manifest, its power overwhelming, and its radiance adorning both East and West. Its crafts bewilder minds, its wonders gladden souls, its sciences illuminate the world, its arts are the very life of the world and eternal life. AB02388

Previously, explaining such matters was difficult, but now since this is the century of progress and education, it is simple and easy. Previously every nation and party had certain superstitions, but now due to education souls have become trained and those superstitions have been torn away.  ABU1158

The dark ages have disappeared, and the age of light has at last arrived. The Sun of Reality has dawned with supreme effulgence, the realities of things have become manifest and renewed, the mysteries of the unknown have been revealed, and great inventions and discoveries mark this period as a most wonderful age.  ABU0192

Civilization, he said, is like unto a moving hill of sands; today it is here; tomorrow it's a hundred miles further. It is subject to these constant transferences: one day in Persia, another day in Assyria, now in Egypt; anon in Greece; once in India and again in Rome; in this age in Europe and further in America.  ABU2275

Note thou carefully that in this world of being, all things must ever be made new. Look at the material world about thee, see how it hath now been renewed. The thoughts have changed, the ways of life have been revised, the sciences and arts show a new vigour, discoveries and inventions are new, perceptions are new.   AB00829

While in times gone by material progress was not so rapid, neither was there bloodshed in such profusion. In ancient warfare there were no cannons, no guns, no dynamite, no shells, no torpedo boats, no battleships, no submarines. Now, owing to material civilization, we have all these inventions, and war goes from bad to worse!  ABU0276

Arts and industries have been reborn, there are new discoveries in science, and there are new inventions; even the details of human affairs, such as dress and personal effects -- even weapons -- all these have likewise been renewed. The laws and procedures of every government have been revised. Renewal is the order of the day.  AB02117

The American people are not satisfied with their present day civilization. It is true that they have built a marvellous civilization of their own through giant-like forces and energy which in many respects is superior to the European civilization, yet they are striving for higher things, nobler ideals and universal principles.  ABU0866

Thus you observe that the effects, results, sciences, arts, wonders, crafts, discoveries and undertakings in this one blessed age are many times greater than all previous centuries combined. That is, if you were to gather the achievements of a hundred centuries, they would not equal one-tenth of the achievements of this century.   AB11731

This bounty will be manifested when all subjects comprehend the benevolent intentions of the just Shepherd and do not fall short in rendering outstanding services as enjoined by the decisive texts, and increase their awareness day by day until the lights of civilization, like the rays of dawn, illumine the horizons of the country.  AB02483

In this day, however, means of communication have multiplied, and the five continents of the earth have virtually merged into one. And for everyone it is now easy to travel to any land, to associate and exchange views with its peoples, and to become familiar, through publications, with the conditions, the religious beliefs and the thoughts of all men.  AB00143

On account of rapid means of transportation, distance is annihilated and space has become a negligible quantity. In former times, before the invention of steam and electricity, it took months and months to [get] to London or America but now once can travel around the world in less time than it took many a person to go America two or three hundred years ago.  ABU0487

The past age was an age of wondrous achievements. All the inventions were perfected, new discoveries created, new fields of human activities, new undertakings gave deeper significance to the law of co-operation; new arts helped to make life more beautiful and new international laws are now in the process of formation to bind all nations of the earth together.   ABU0644

Praise be to God that the radiant century hath come. Praise be to God the springtime of Eternity hath pitched its tent. Praise be to God, this is the age of the discovery of the realities of things. Verily I say unto you, this age is the age of science. This age is the age of the appearance of the truth. This age is the age of the extension of the sphere of thought.  AB07140


First the inhabitants of the country must be imbued with the spirit of progress, then the country will advance as a matter of course. As long as the people are kept in the rayless prison of coarse habits and are not moved by the generous impulses the country itself is held in a state of semi-barbarism and stagnation. We hope to see the denizens of Persia become liberal and progressive.   ABU1121

The progress of the world during the past fifteen hundred years has greatly modified the conditions which prevailed when these teachers were on earth. Man has learned to control the forces of nature and to harness them in his service. All the nations of the world are in constant, easy, and rapid communication: closely united by the telegraph, the telephone, steam and electric locomotion.  ABU1396

let us take this room. Cyrus the great King of Persia could not enjoy the luxuries of a room like this. Solomon with all his glories had a mirror like this! Solomon had not an automobile but only a wooden carriage, a little gilded. The audience chamber of Alexander the great was not lighted with electricity. Now most everybody enjoys the possession of an automobile or his room is lighted with electricity.   ABU0173

The Western nations for the last five centuries have been steadily going forward and with a superhuman energy pushing further and further the frontiers of ignorance and illiteracy they have attained to their present unassailable position. Now if the Islamic people start on this path with the same determination and constancy it will take them at least five centuries before they could reach the up-to-date level of Western civilization.   ABU2197

If we review history, we will observe that human advancement has been greatest in the development of material virtues. Civilization is the sign and evidence of this progression. Throughout the world, material civilization has attained truly wonderful heights and degrees of efficiency -- that is to say, the outward powers and virtues of man have greatly developed, but the inner and ideal virtues have been correspondingly delayed and neglected.  ABU0150

Praise be to God that the centuries of darkness have passed and the age of enlightenment has arrived! Praise be to God that all traces of superstition and imitation have vanished and the minds and thoughts of men have broadened, inventions have gained new life, the arts and sciences have been revived, new plans have been evolved, discoveries have increased, all things have been revitalized, the rulings that regulate the world have been renewed!  ABU1357

Consider the well-ordered states of the West, like England, Germany, Switzerland etc, to name but a few, they enjoy the blessing of an ordered, educated and dependable class of officials. The leader of the Württemberg colonists in Haifa, once told us during one of his welcome visits in 'Akka that the great statesman of the Germans, Bismarck, is said to have exclaimed: 'The victorious war of 70/71 was actually won by the "German school-master"!'   ABU0376

It will progress to such a degree that any one can travel with them. The danger will become less and less. It will be such that one wishing to travel, instead of going by carriage or automobile, he will take the aeroplane. God willing, it will be directed for good purposes. At present it is used for destructive purposes. We hoped the aeroplane would serve the world of humanity, but it has become the means of destruction for the world of humanity.  ABU0210

before the appearance of these present inventions, no wise person considered these events possible. Which wise one said it was possible that one day man's vehicle would fly, travelling from city to city through the air? Which wise one said that a day would come when people would communicate with each other without any instrument, merely through aerial waves?  ABU0242

In the world of art it is just the same, and this wonderful development of man's faculties becomes more and more rapid as time goes on. If the discoveries, inventions and material accomplishments of the last fifteen hundred years could be put together, you would see that there has been greater advancement during the last hundred years than in the previous fourteen centuries. For the rapidity with which man is progressing increases century by century.  ABU0555

When we look at the world we see that the physical matters, material things, have made a great development and made a great advance. It cannot be compared with the past centuries or any other of the former centuries. The past centuries are in great beauty and appearance, civilization is advanced, science is also, industries and discoveries have reached the highest station. The physical world has made a great advance, in such manner that it is going to reach the station of maturity.  ABU0602

O friends of God! Think not that since this world is fleeting, therefore imperfection and perfection, success and failure, ascent and descent, progress and decline are equal. God forbid! The All-Merciful in the text of the Qur'an declares: "Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the world to come." Thus it is clear and evident that both spiritual and material progress and perfection are desired and beloved, especially since all progress, even physical, is indicative of divine bounties.   AB00146

These days are the days of youth. These times are the times of Progress. This age is the age of reformation. This epoch is the epoch of rejuvenation! This cycle is the cycle of renovation. This century is the century [of] regeneration. This period is the period of reanimation.  ABU1141

The world of existence was also once an infant, then like an adolescent child it grew and developed day by day. Now it has reached maturity. This century is the sovereign of centuries, this age is the mirror of all ages. Whatever existed in earlier centuries, the images of all are visible in this mirror. Moreover, this century itself possesses special perfections - it has great discoveries, wonderful industries, amazing institutions, and strange sciences. It has manifested, and will continue to manifest, the utmost perfection in all aspects.  ABU0264

For example, if you compare the effects, discoveries, knowledge, arts, wonders, sciences and learning of fifty centuries with this luminous century, surely the virtues of this divine century exceed the achievements of all past centuries... Likewise the arts, wonders, technical discoveries, beneficial projects, complete civilization, expansion of thoughts, increase of understanding and comprehension, revelation of the mysteries of creation and manifestation of the realities of contingent beings - this matter is universally accepted and all acknowledge and confess it.   AB00359

In the estimation of historians this radiant century is equivalent to one hundred centuries of the past. If comparison be made with the sum total of all former human achievements, it will be found that the discoveries, scientific advancement and material civilization of this present century have equaled, yea far exceeded the progress and outcome of one hundred former centuries. The production of books and compilations of literature alone bears witness that the output of the human mind in this century has been greater and more enlightening than all the past centuries together.  ABU0188

From every standpoint the world of humanity is undergoing a reformation. The laws of former governments and civilizations are in process of revision; scientific ideas and theories are developing and advancing to meet a new range of phenomena; invention and discovery are penetrating hitherto unknown fields, revealing new wonders and hidden secrets of the material universe; industries have vastly wider scope and production; everywhere the world of mankind is in the throes of evolutionary activity indicating the passing of the old conditions and advent of the new age of reformation.   ABU0101

Observe how other countries have advanced in modern progress. The Ancient Beauty has guided you through all counsels and covenants to that which causes life and progress in stations. You must be the party of progress so that you may become the army of life and the hosts of salvation. Likewise, divine confirmations have prepared for you the means of progress from every direction. Soon your brothers from Europe and America will come to Iran and will establish novel industries, build works of civilization, various factories, promote commerce, multiply agriculture, and spread knowledge.   AB00325

Columbus was a genius in his time. Consider what world-encircling results appeared from his voyage of discovery! Copernicus, Kepler, Laplace and Newton were all geniuses, and their contributions to the sciences have made them benefactors of humanity? The inventors and discoverers of telegraphy, telephony, electricity, wireless, etc., have all, through their distinguished labors and discoveries made man a monarch over the laws of nature, broadened his vision and freed him from the lower, miserable life of the savage, ever fighting with the beasts of the jungle in order to satisfy his bare wants.   ABU0723

That which was applicable to human needs during the early history of the race could neither meet nor satisfy the demands of this day and period of newness and consummation. Humanity has emerged from its former degrees of limitation and preliminary training. Man must now become imbued with new virtues and powers, new moralities, new capacities. New bounties, bestowals and perfections are awaiting and already descending upon him. The gifts and graces of the period of youth, although timely and sufficient during the adolescence of the world of mankind, are now incapable of meeting the requirements of its maturity.  ABU0101

With all its majesty, our sun is governed by certain universal laws, which it cannot deviate by a hair's breath. However man has seized the sword from nature and with it is beating nature back. For example, the natural law is for man to remain on earth. Yet, he swims in the sea like a fish or flies in the air like a bird. Or the law of nature is for electricity to flow freely. But we see that man has captured this power in the confines of a bulb. The nature of man is to see for a proscribed distance and to hear only over a limited space. However, man has devised means to observe the heavens above and to communicate with every corner of the globe.  ABU0505

Today throughout the five continents of the globe it is Europe and most sections of America that are renowned for law and order, government and commerce, art and industry, science, philosophy and education. Further, from the fifth century after Christ until the fifteenth, that period defined as the Middle Ages, such terrible struggles and fierce upheavals, such ruthless encounters and horrifying acts, were the rule among the peoples of Europe, that the Europeans rightly describe those ten centuries as the Dark Ages. The basis of Europe's progress and civilization was actually laid in the fifteenth century of the Christian era, and from that time on, all her present evident culture has been, under the stimulus of great minds and as a result of the expansion of the frontiers of knowledge and the exertion of energetic and ambitious efforts, in the process of development.  AB00004

The glory and joy and spirit and fragrance of the human world lies in this: that it should continuously and successively advance toward spiritual progress, and thereafter make material progress. If thought is not directed toward constant progress, it is stagnation. Whatever may be, this is it: that the human spirit must ever be advancing. The human heart must ever be advancing; day by day human intelligence, human understanding, human spirit and delight, human sanctity and holiness must progress. But the moment it stops, decline sets in. No spirit and delight remain. No matter how much one progresses in spiritual things, the moment a halt occurs, no spirit and delight remain. Likewise in physical matters and sciences and arts, man must be constantly progressing and increasing in knowledge. The moment there is a halt, decline occurs. Man must ever be ascending.  ABU0117

The Western nations for the last five centuries have been steadily going forward and with a superhuman energy pushing further and further the frontiers of ignorance and illiteracy they have attained to their present unassailable position.   ABU2197
