
So in many ways the existence of different degrees is in reality the perfection of harmony and each may attain perfection in its sphere.   ABU3387

The progress of every thing is within its own degree. When one considers the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms, it is observed that each progresses within its own degree.  ABU2566

Furthermore, the attainment of absolute perfection for a human being is impossible; thus, however much he may progress he is still imperfect and has above him a point higher than himself.  ABU2042

Therefore you must strive day unto day that the sun of Love may dawn from your hearts; day unto day the attractions of your consciousness may develop; day unto day you may become more loving to humanity   ABU2256

We have grown up step by step, always to a state in advance of the last. God's processes are never retrogressive. No butterfly goes back into the chrysalis: constant change, never a repetition, is the fundamental law.  ABU2537

We are now at the commencement of the shining forth of the Sun of Reality. It is the time which His Holiness Christ, calls the "days of marriage." No doubt the house is not in order, but the time will come when it will come under order.  AB01223

For it is said by His Holiness the Bab that the degree of Perfection reached by a thing is its Paradise. That is, when a thing is developed to the highest point possible for it, it has reached its paradise; while its failure is its hell.  ABU2900

Any person progresses in his own degree. For instance, this mineral progresses, but, no matter how much it progresses, it cannot develop eyes and ears. The highest station it can reach is that of the diamond. Its progress is confined to the mineral kingdom.  ABU1516

So he who occupies the degree of servitude, no matter how far he may progress and acquire endless perfections, can never reach the degree of divine Lordship. The same holds true of all other created things. No matter how far a mineral may progress it can never acquire the power of growth in the mineral kingdom.   AB00399

As for material beings, they are not to be blamed, judged, or held accountable for their own degrees and stations. Thus the mineral, the plant, and the animal are each acceptable in their own degree, but if they were to remain deficient in that degree they would be blameworthy, the degree itself being wholly perfect.  AB01359

It is only possible for all to attain to the highest station each in its own individual kingdom. In the same way when one passes away who is an unbeliever, it is possible through the power of God for him to attain to a high station, but he can never do it from himself, as his station is fixed so far as he is concerned.  ABU0584

Man passes through different phases and when in a lower consciousness he cannot comprehend the consciousness above. When we were in the state of the unborn child we had no knowledge of the world of man. If the vegetable kingdom could speak it would cry out, "Where is the world of man?" We cry out, "Where is the kingdom of the spirit?"  ABU0819

When mineral substances are decomposed and then those decomposed atoms go into the makeup of other mineral organisms - this is called longitudinal growth; but when those decomposed mineral matters go into the composition of vegetable life - it is called horizontal growth. The same law is applicable to the vegetable and animal Kingdoms.   ABU0441

And after the noblest stations in the world of humanity have been attained, further progress can be made only in the degrees of perfection, not in station, for the degrees are finite but the divine perfections are infinite. Both before and after casting off this elemental frame, the human soul progresses in perfections but not in station.  AB00420

For example however much the mineral is advanced it does not attain to the degree of man. It is susceptible of progress in its own sphere. The rock becomes diamond or in the vegetable Kingdom, the small seeds develop into mighty trees, producing blossoms and fruits, but no matter how much they advance they do not obtain the senses of sight and hearing.   AB03068


All created things have their degree, or stage, of maturity. The period of maturity in the life of a tree is the time of its fruit bearing. The maturity of a plant is the time of its blossoming and flower. The animal attains a stage of full growth and completeness, and in the human kingdom man reaches his maturity when the lights of intelligence have their greatest power and development.   ABU0101

For instance, the capacities and bestowals that the mineral acquires in the mineral world do not become visible in the mineral world, but rather when it transfers from the mineral world to the vegetable world, that inherent gift is unveiled. And when the plant acquires the capacity to develop a sensitive body in the vegetable world, this perfection appears upon its transfer to the animal world.   AB00135


The law of God is one; the evolution of existence is one; the divine order is one. All beings great and small are subject to one law and one order. Every seed has from the beginning all the perfections of the plant. Similarly, the terrestrial globe was created from the beginning with all its elements, substances, minerals, parts and components; but these appeared only gradually: first the minerals, then the plants, then the animals, and finally man.  AB00722

The other progress is progress in perfections, and since divine perfections are infinite, man can progress in perfections in both this world and the next world. For example, knowledge is one of the divine perfections, and divine knowledge is infinite. Thus, in all divine worlds, this perfection is like the sun, bestowing bounty upon all beings, and beings in all worlds receive from the sun of knowledge. And since the bounty is infinite, the recipient continues to receive perpetually.  AB01263


In the world of existence there are diverse ranks. The lower rank, no matter how much it may advance, can never reach the station of that which is above it. Rather, within its own rank there are infinite perfections through which it must progress. For example, no matter how much the mineral may progress, it can never acquire hearing and sight. Within its mineral rank it hath infinite progress - for instance, coal may attain to the degree of diamond - but a stone will never gain hearing and sight. It progresseth within its own rank. Likewise, that which is originated will never become pre-existent, and that which is pre-existent will never become originated.  AB06283

That which occupies the lowest station of existence, like the mineral, has no right to object, saying, O God, why have you denied me the perfections of the plant? Likewise, the plant has no right to protest that it has been deprived of the perfections of the animal realm. And, similarly, it is not befitting for the animal to complain of the want of human perfections. No, all these things are perfect in their own degree and must pursue the perfections of that degree. As we have said previously, that which is inferior in rank has no right or qualification to aspire to the station and perfections of that which is superior, but must progress within its own degree.  AB00441

Each kingdom of existence, no matter how much it may progress, cannot attain to the station above it. For instance, no matter how much the mineral may progress within the mineral kingdom, it cannot acquire the power of growth. Similarly, no matter how much the plant may progress and be trained within the vegetable kingdom, it cannot gain the power of sensation. Likewise, no matter how much the animal may be trained and progress within the animal kingdom, it cannot attain to the power of reason. Thus it is clear that each created thing has its own station and progresses within that station. Similarly, each type of human being has a spiritual station and progresses within his own rank and station.  AB01205

The human spirit never transcends its own degree: it progresses only within that degree. For example, no matter how far the spirit and reality of Peter may progress, it will never reach the degree of the reality of Christ but will progress only within its own inherent limits. Thus, you see that however much this mineral may progress, its progress remains within its own degree; you cannot possibly bring this crystal, for example, to a state where it gains the power of sight. The moon, howsoever it may progress, can never become the shining sun, and its apogee and perigee will always remain within its own degree. And however far the Apostles might have progressed, they could never have become Christ.   AB01145

When we gaze with the eye of truth, we see that even the differences in ranks of existence prevent comprehension, as each lower rank cannot comprehend what lies above it, though both exist within the realm of contingency rather than necessity. The mineral kingdom has no awareness of the vegetable kingdom, for minerals cannot comprehend the power of growth. The vegetable kingdom has no knowledge of the animal realm, nor can plants conceive of hearing, sight, and voluntary movement, even at their highest degree. Animals cannot conceive of the rational soul that discovers the realities of things, being devoid of spiritual consciousness, imprisoned by the senses, and heedless of all intellectual realities.  ABU0222


However much it progresses, it cannot develop eyes and ears. The highest station it can reach is that of the diamond. Its progress is confined to the mineral kingdom. The same is true of the vegetable kingdom. However much a flower progresses, it cannot have eyes and ears and understanding.  ABU1516

This stone can never show forth the characteristics of the brilliant star. The wood and the iron can never manifest the beauty and glory of the radiant orb.  AB00282

The lower rank, no matter how much it may advance, can never reach the station of that which is above it. Rather, within its own rank there are infinite perfections through which it must progress.  AB06283

Plants, no matter how much they progress, may increase in delicacy, freshness, color, taste, fragrance and properties, but they remain plants - they do not become animals or acquire sensation. And so forth.  ABU2566

For it is clear, evident, and indeed obvious that every capacity, merit, power and perfection that any thing acquires in one rank of existence becomes manifest when it is raised to the rank above it. The bestowals acquired in the first rank, which is below this rank, become evident and manifest in this higher rank.   AB00135

The transformation depends upon divine bounty. The mineral progresses in its own world. But from the mineral to the vegetable it progressed only by divine bounty. Also transformation from the vegetable to the animal is God's plan. Of itself the transformation cannot take place. In the realm of men transformation is possible only through another person."   ABU0326

This is in accordance with a rule of divine philosophy, for man does not become transferred to a higher state. He always continues the same by reason of the indisputable immortality of the soul. The soul is eternal; it has no end and will never cease to exist.   ABU0078

Whensoever a thing is destroyed, and decayeth, and is cut off from life, it is promoted into a world that is greater than the world it knew before. It leaveth, for example, the life of the mineral and goeth forward into the life of the plant; then it departeth out of the vegetable life and ascendeth into that of the animal, following which it forsaketh the life of the animal and riseth into the realm of human life, and this is out of the grace of thy Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB01624

Now, if you consign this body to the flames, it will pass immediately into the mineral kingdom and will be kept back from its natural journey through the chain of all created things. The elemental body, following death, and its release from its composite life, will be transformed into separate components and minuscule animals; and even though it will now be deprived of its composite life in human form, still the animal life is in it, and it is not entirely bereft of life. If, however, it be burned, it will turn into ashes and minerals, and once it has become mineral, it must inexorably journey onward to the vegetable kingdom, so that it may rise to the animal world. This is described as an overleap.  AB00273

Moreover, creatures have ever been and will be in their own stations. The True One is in His station, and the souls of the believers and the deniers are in theirs. "Each swimmeth in its own sphere."  BH05340
