
The Cause of Baha'u'llah is the same as the Cause of Christ.  ABU3052

Although the former Manifestations have come from God, the means of unity for mankind was not prepared in their time. It was as though there was nothing, and conflicting conditions were still remaining in the world; there was no transportation and railways, no joining of Europe, Asia and Africa. People could not meet each other, the means were not ready.  ABU0838

 I speak according to the demands of the time and the capacity of my listeners. 'The father makes gurgling sounds for the newborn infant, although his wisdom be capable of measuring the universe.'  ABU3480

What I have spoken is according to the capacity of the people and the exigency of the time. "The father makes gurgling sounds for the newborn infant, although his wisdom can measure the universe."  ABU3464

If a king send many different governors to rule a city, and the people obey all but the last one, it will be to the king as though they disobeyed all.  ABU3386

Moses taught only the material things and Christ of the Spiritual. So if Adam attempted the knowledge of Jesus Christ, he was bound to fail.   ABU3083

Christ gave new life and effect to the meanings of the ancient law.  ABU3572

The teaching is ever the same, it is only the outward forms that change.  ABU2108

The question was asked whether after the further declaration of this Truth would the millennium begin at once?  Abdu'l-Baha:  No, gradually, for a plant that grows too quickly lasts only a short time.   ABU2366

The Promised One of all nations, Baha'u'llah, has appeared and manifested, and with new teachings has revived the world.  AB06826

Whenever this world becomes dark, and divided in its opinions and indifferent, God will send one of His Holy Messengers.   ABU1202

"This is He Whom Adam heralded, until the matter reached the Interlocutor whom We commanded, through what We revealed in the Qur'an"  BH05956

The second aspect of the divine religions is nonessential. It concerns human needs and undergoes change in every cycle according to the exigency of the time.  ABU0006

Moses taught only the material things and Christ of the Spiritual. So if Adam attempted the knowledge of Jesus Christ, he was bound to fail.   ABU3083

This age is a different age and its requirements are different requirements. The laws of the previous age do not suffice for this great century.  ABU3283

The Revelation of Baha'u'llah contains all the great laws and principles of social government. This development of humanity will be gradual, not sudden.  ABU2368

Similarly, know that the foundation of Christ's religion and the Faith of Baha'u'llah is one foundation and the path is one path, but it progresses day by day.   AB00430

If there is no change or alteration, then there is no renewal. Not until night falls will a new day dawn. If the religion of Moses had not changed, Christ would not have appeared.   ABU2314

Baha'u'llah has renewed the teachings of the Prophets and of the Manifestations, and has again proclaimed the Oneness of the foundation upon which the religion of God is established.   ABU1703

Verily, just as those who were given the Gospel failed to comprehend after God sent down the Furqan, those who were given the Furqan failed to comprehend after God sent down the Bayan.  BB00003


He sent forth His Messengers and bestowed His Books that all might find the path and hold fast unto Him, until the paths led to the Most Great Path and the Messengers to the Most Noble Messenger   BH02453



"A physician changes his prescription according to the condition of the patient. One day he gives one medicine, the next day, another. These changes are due to changes in the condition of the patient."  ABU0961

At one time He spoke from the Divine Lote-Tree, at another in the Night Journey, and yet again from this Station, whereof every atom of its atoms beareth witness that there is none other God beside Him   BH02837

Christ said, 'What has happened in the past will happen again in the future.' The reason of this is that all things are under the operation of Divine Law which is the same today, yesterday, and forever.   ABU3202

From whatever place it may appear, they turn to it. You have rightly understood that the Baha'is do not believe in a person; rather they believe in the truth which shines from the divine dawning points.   ABU2143

They do not see the Power of Baha'u'llah who proves the Truth of Christ to unbelievers after nineteen centuries, the Truth of Islam after thirteen centuries and the Truth of Abraham after four thousand years!  ABU0997

"Christ is an Expression of the Divine Reality, the Single Essence and Heavenly Entity, which hath no beginning or ending. It has appearance, arising, and manifestation and setting in each one of the Cycles."   ABU2958

Of this Movement all prophets have foretold. All the famous philosophers have foreshadowed it, all men of sagacity have anticipated the advent of such a movement, they have sensed the appearance of a New Day.   ABU1811

The essence of the Torah is the Ancient Covenant, and that Ancient Covenant was a harbinger of this new Covenant, which is the Covenant of the manifestation of the Lord with all His attributes and perfection.   ABU2545

Thou hast created all beings and sent unto them Thy Messengers and Thy Books and Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets to bring them the glad-tidings of what Thou hast ordained for them through Thy bounty and favors.   BH05406

In every century a particular and central theme is, in accordance with the requirements of that century, confirmed by God. In this illumined age that which is confirmed is the oneness of the world of humanity.   AB06287

each one of which was raised in the form of a Prophet and sent to one of the worlds which none hath numbered save God Who hath encompassed all created things through a letter of the Word that proceeded from His Pen  BH01828



"Although mercy and grace existed in previous Dispensations as well, yet the radiance and heat of the world-illumining Sun in the sign of Leo has a different effect, a different influence, and a different manifestation."  AB05719


I have sent Messengers before, that they might prepare you for the Day of My Manifestation, which now you witness. I have revealed Books before, that they might teach you the knowledge of My good-pleasure, which now you know.   BB00234

The teachings of Christ covered a period of three years; the dispensation of Moses lasted forty years... After his declaration, his mission lasted but three years; there was neither time nor occasion for a complete code of laws.  ABU1957

In former times the Qur'an had one station, the Gospel had one station, but in this blessed Revelation there are multiple stations - Tablets, verses, odes, sermons and prayers. Then raising His blessed hands, He said "They are abundant!"  ABU2454

Before the dawning of the Sun of Laws no one was under obligation, but after its appearance all were and shall continue to be bound thereby, that all may attain unto His infinite divine bounties and drink from the Kawthar of His mercy.   BH03202

In every Manifestation of glorious divine revelation, He sheds His effulgences upon all, but upon some in sleep and upon others in wakefulness, and this is God's way in every Manifestation, and verily your Lord is knowing of all things.  BH01852

The day of Adam was as the rising of the sun; the Day of the Blessed Perfection as the full noontide. The joy, fragrance and spirituality in the time of Moses compared with that in the day of Jesus was like a river compared to the sea.   ABU0810

He hath made His example, from first to last, like unto the rising of the sun, and hath ordained every manifestation like unto a dawning, that those who are illumined by the first appearance might not be veiled from the latter appearance.  BB00005

Seasons in the revelation from God, as in the natural year, and just as the Christ manifested the Spirit of God in the flesh and helped the earth in his time, now the message of Baha'Ullah is the medicine of which the world has much need.  ABU2956

When God sent forth His Prophet Muhammad, on that day the termination of the prophetic cycle was foreordained in the knowledge of God. Yea, that promise hath indeed come true and the decree of God hath been accomplished as He hath ordained.   BB00343

But fear ye God on the Day when God shall come with His Command, for on that Day God will lift up what He hath sent down and will reveal other verses. God ordaineth what He willeth and confirmeth what He pleaseth, and unto Him shall all return.  BB00004

He hath sent unto them in every age a Messenger to guide them to the court of sublime glory and to draw them nigh unto God and to detach them from all else save Him - a mercy from His presence, for He, verily, is the Most Merciful of the merciful.  BH11700

The Primal Mirrors shall never end, and likewise the mirrors of Their beauty, for the outpouring of God shall never cease. This is a truth that cannot be denied. And whoso saith that the Manifestations have ended in thy land - pay no heed to him  BH02874

Each renewal of religion in an epoch of time becomes the foundation of a new religion. The new religion and prophetic teaching of our period of time has for its Forerunner His Holiness the Bab, and for its Consummator the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah.   ABU0111

Inasmuch as every subsequent Revelation hath abolished the manners, habits, and teachings that have been clearly, specifically, and firmly established by the former Dispensation, these have accordingly been symbolically expressed in terms of sun and moon.  BH00002

All tables will be gathered up in a short time, but this divine spread and feast will be extended forever. The utmost is that it will be renewed until the new Manifestation and fresh revelation and dawning of the Sun of Truth is established and realized.   AB04758

There are seasons in the revelation from God as in the natural year, and just as the Christ had realized the Spirit of God in the flesh and had helped the earth in his time, now the message of Baha'o'llah was the medicine of which the world has much need.  ABU0715

Glorified be He Who sendeth down the verses in truth as He sent them down before and before that, and verily He doth encompass all the worlds. And He shall manifest the Cause as He willeth through His grace, even as He manifested it before and before that   BH08373

Adam influenced only his own immediate family; Abraham influenced a larger circle; Moses a still larger one--the Israelites; Christ influenced about one-fifth the world; Mohammed about one-tenth. Then came the Manifestation, who will conquer the entire world.  ABU1002


Adam in the divine cycles and sacred dispensations is the first to believe, for he is the First Original, and the children of Adam are those souls who in that cycle enter beneath the shade of that Word of the All-Merciful and are as his lineage and progeny.  AB00939


"Teach them as the truths contained in their own religion; and after you have instructed them and gladdened their hearts, you may tell them of the Messenger, and remind them of the promise of Buddha that another teacher should come, teaching the same truths."  ABU2915

As Moses and Jesus brought their Message to the people, so Baha'u'llah brings the same Message. Each time God sends a Great One to us we are given new life, but the Truth each Manifestation brings is the same. The Truth never changes but man's vision changes.  ABU1105

But the people of truth or reality have adored the sun. They will adore the sun if it appear from the East, and even if the sun should appear from the West, still they will adore it, because they are the lovers of the Word. They are not lovers of dawning points.  ABU0022

The history of the prophets who came before Abraham and Moses is not known, but it is of those who came after them... After years had passed and the departure of Moses took place, the Jews became devoid of knowledge, and so GOD sent Jesus Christ to instruct them   ABU0272

Although in past dispensations and Cycles the power of Love had a penetration and the light of Love an appearance yet in this blessed Century the Sun of Reality has bestowed such an outpouring of Love that the human world has received another impetus and movement.  AB03586

Every age requires a central impetus or movement. In this age, the boundaries of terrestrial things have extended; minds have taken on a broader range of vision; realities have been unfolded and the secrets of being have been brought into the realm of visibility.   ABU0083

He is the One Who at one time made Baghdad the Most Glorious Horizon and at another time made Adrianople the Dawning-place of His verses. At times He made 'Akka the Source of Names and at other times adorned Mazra'ih with the lights of His most exalted attributes.   BH01127

from the day of the martyrdom of Christ until the day of the appearance of the Beauty of Muhammad was night. The days of the appearance of the Daysprings of Reality are days of reunion, and the days of the setting of the Divine Manifestations are days of separation.  AB11678

The second classification or division comprises social laws and regulations applicable to human conduct. This is not the essential spiritual quality of religion. It is subject to change and transformation according to the exigencies and requirements of time and place.  ABU0015

The character of divine sovereignty has no change or transformation, but the organization and administration change continually. This is why Jesus Christ said: "I came not to destroy the law, but to fulfil it." At the same time there are conditions that are changeable.  ABU2402

He it is Who hath sent the Messengers from a beginning that hath no beginning - and this was ordained in the preserved tablets of might - and He will continue to send them unto an end that hath no end. There is none other God but Him, the Bestower, the All-Knowing.   BH01775

From what hath been mentioned, it is established and proven that none can say We were created from intellect, and others from something else. The truth that shineth bright as the sun is that all have been created by the Will of God and have proceeded from a single source.  BH00048

In every cycle and age Thou hast ordained a religion for the people of that time and a path for those who desire to ascend unto Thee, until all religions were abrogated and all paths led to the time of Muhammad, Thy Beloved, may God's blessings be upon him and his family.  BB00011

In the coming of Christ, the divine teachings were given in accordance with the infancy of the human race. The teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH have the same basic principles, but are according to the stage of the maturity of the world and the requirements of this illumined age.   AB04411

Each Prophet gave glad tidings of His successor, and each successor confirmed His predecessor. Moses gave tidings of Christ, Christ confirmed Moses. Christ gave tidings of Muhammad, Muhammad confirmed Christ and Moses. All were united with one another - why should we differ?  ABU0113

Though there can be no doubt that each Dispensation progresseth and the evidences of light, if not ascending, will not descend - except when the Sun of Truth appeareth in its fullness, at which time the essences of light remain veiled in veils of light and come not into being.  BB00005

From that time to the present we have had lesser cycles, such as the Adam of record, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, etc. Today, which culminates this long cycle - Baha'u'llah being, in the words of 'Abdu'l-Baha, "The expression of maturity and perfection of humanity."   ABU3763

Know thou that God hath ever been manifest amongst His servants and visible amidst His creation, yet people recognize Him not, for in every Revelation they become veiled by limited signs and tokens which prevent them from beholding the countenance of God in another Manifestation  BH02438

God sends Prophets for the education of the people and the progress of mankind. Each such Manifestation of God has raised humanity. They serve the whole world by the bounty of God. All the teaching of the Prophets is one; one faith; one Divine light shining throughout the world.  AB01160

The Blessed Perfection said in His Tablets that once He was Abraham, once Moses, once Jesus, once Muhammad, and once the Bab. This is explained clearly in the 'Book of Iqan,' that is, the meanings and perfection of qualities which were once hidden are now revealed in Baha'u'llah.  ABU0466

Therefore reflect ye upon all the Revelations and take heed that what shall come is like unto what hath come before, what shall be decreed is like unto what was decreed, what shall pass away is like unto what hath passed away, and what shall appear is like unto what hath appeared.  BB00005

And We have caused thee to revolve through a thousand thousand resurrections, and beyond and above that unto what cannot be counted. We speak the truth. And all the worlds have ended in this world, and all the Adams in the Primal Adam, and all in all, until it hath ended in Muhammad.  BB00087

The stages of creation and legislation are endless paths of the beloved's journey to the Beloved. The servants of the Most Merciful were taught again their path to God, and according to their different stations they were judged with differences - though God's religion and decree is one  BB00354

Successive centuries passed until the clouds were cleft asunder and God came with His kingdom of might, and the matter was decided by the decree of the Powerful, the Praiseworthy. He made him the Herald of Him Who was to come after, as revealed in the Bayan, if ye be of them that know.   BH01153

In previous cycles there was either the manifestation of the Beauty or the dawning of the lights of Glory, either the rising of "Thou art of an exalted character" or the dawning of "God is clear of the idolaters," either the radiance of the Brilliant Orb or the flash of the Drawn Sword.  AB04252

O nightingales! I am neither of Yathrib, nor of Batha, nor of 'Iraq, nor of Syria. Rather, I journey and wander through diverse lands - sometimes in Egypt, sometimes in Bethlehem and Galilee, sometimes in Hijaz, sometimes in 'Iraq and Persia, and now I have unveiled Myself in Adrianople.  BH01361

But these verses apply word for word to Baha'u'llah. Moreover, in this wondrous Dispensation the earth will become another earth and the world of humanity will be arrayed with perfect composure and adornment. Strife, contention and bloodshed will give way to peace, sincerity and harmony.   AB00091

This Most Great Revelation hath ever been manifest in and of itself, needing no one to establish its truth. The equivalent of all previous and future books hath been sent down from the heaven of His Will, and whatsoever was to come to pass was clearly set forth beforehand by the Supreme Pen.  BH00812

Indeed, the glory from God be upon the First Unity and upon those who resemble that Unity wherein naught is seen save the First Outward One. Furthermore, ye shall bear witness that the creation of a thing is not complete until it culminateth in the four stages which God hath ordained for it.  BB00003

That which was treasured from all eternity hath been revealed, and that which was concealed in the Tablets of God, the Lord of all that was and shall be, hath appeared. The breezes of revelation have wafted and the winds of the All-Merciful have blown, yet most of the people perceive it not.   BH04490

Though Their appearance in the world be not identical, and each is manifested with distinct conduct and behavior, appearing between degrees of lesser and greater, yet They are like unto the moon in heaven which, though it appeareth in different phases, never suffereth diminution or cessation.   BH00779

In every age He hath made manifest the Sun of His mercy in supreme glory and with most resplendent light, causing it to speak and proclaim the most exalted path and way in the realm of existence... And in this Dispensation, as the divine requirements took effect and His decrees spread forth...  BH00377

These blessed souls - whether Moses, Christ, Zoroaster, Krishna, Buddha, Confucius, or Muhammad - were the cause of illumination in the world. How can we deny such conclusive proof? How can we deny such illumination? How can we deny this radiance of Christ? This is unfair and a denial of truth.  ABU0039

In the first days of every Prophet, He was the source of the Bounties of GOD to the people, but after a time, the true spirit of His teachings waned, and the people lapsed into ignorance and darkness; then it became necessary to send forth a new Appearance or Manifestation of the Bounties of GOD  ABU1928

This century is a century of light. It is a century wherein such superstitions must be cast away. This century is one in which enmity and strife must cease. This is a century wherein all the peoples, all the religionists, must associate with each other with perfect spirit of love and fellowship.  ABU0171

Consider the term Divine Unity, which the Manifestations of God have uttered in every Dispensation, a goodly term which all the divers peoples and kindreds of the world have spoken. Nevertheless, in each Dispensation, it hath been made new and hath in no wise been divested of its novel character.  BH11916

Know thou that in every Dispensation that dawneth, all things take shelter beneath its shade according to their capacity, for it is the Manifestation of God [...] Therefore, it was due to the lack of capacity of the inhabitants of each Dispensation, otherwise the power from God had been conferred.  BB00005

This has come to pass. The powers of earth cannot withstand the privileges and bestowals which God has ordained for this great and glorious century. It is a need and exigency of the time. Man can withstand anything except that which is divinely intended and indicated for the age and its requirements.  ABU0186

In the time of Moses, there were ten crimes punishable by death. When Christ came this was changed; the old axiom 'an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth' was converted into 'Love your enemies, do good to them that hate you', the stern old law being changed into one of love, mercy and forbearance!   ABU0493

Therefore, men have always been taught and led by the Prophets of God. The Prophets of God are the Mediators of God. All the Prophets and Messengers have come from One Holy Spirit and bear the Message of God, fitted to the age in which they appear. The One Light is in them and they are One with each other.  ABU0445

And now, concerning His words: And He shall send His angels... By angels is meant those who, reinforced by the power of the spirit, have consumed, with the fire of the love of God, all human traits and limitations, and have clothed themselves with the attributes of the most exalted Beings and of the Cherubim.  BH00002

The teachings of Jesus are in a concentrated form. Men do not agree to this day as to the meaning of many of His sayings. His teachings are as a flower in the bud. Today, the bud is unfolding into a flower! Baha'u'llah has expanded and fulfilled the teachings, and has applied them in detail to the whole world.   ABU2418

Were faith the form of the servant, then upon the earth would be found numbered communities, each created in human form. How then, O Letters of the Qur'an, do ye not admit into faith the Letters of the Gospel, even as your Lord will not admit you into faith except that ye enter among the Letters of the Bayan?  BB00004

And I shall teach thee the essence of the Bayan in a surih from the Furqan that thou mayest comprehend all Books from a beginning that hath no beginning unto an end that hath no end according to this exposition. [Followed by detailed analysis showing how the meaning of Surah Al-Fatiha evolves across dispensations]   BB00654

Now if the manifest evidences of this incandescent Light are not all immediately apparent in the visible and external world nevertheless all this has been realised in the inner essence of every beings and shall manifest its full potentialities in a manner that is commensurate with the human capability to bear them   AB06323

He sent forth Adam and bestowed upon him a Book, and likewise unto Seth and Enoch and Abraham - upon them be the blessings and mercy of God - and unto all the other Prophets He granted whatsoever He willed. And unto the Messengers of firm resolve He sent down Books - the Torah, the Psalms, the Gospel and the Qur'an.  BH06184

When the days of your Lord, the Most Merciful, have passed, God shall manifest the Primal Tree, bringing forth the latter creation, and on that Day ye shall all be brought into the presence of God. Therefore put your trust in God and ask of His grace, that God may number you on that Day among His believing servants.  BB00004

In the time of Adam, the first prophet of record, we have the seed of Christ consciousness deposited embryonically by Adam. In Abraham it became the child of promise. In Moses the embryonic child had attained to boney structure, which was the Law. In Jesus it attained the birth into the world of Christ consciousness.   ABU3763


At all times have the nightingales of utterance warbled upon the twigs of the Lote-Tree of proof, heralding unto all the way that they might attain the most exalted station. In every age and epoch He sent forth a messenger and gave His servants glad-tidings of everlasting bounties, eternal glory, and perpetual sustenance.  BH02971

O people! If ye believed in 'Ali because of the revelation to Him of the Bayan; and before Him in Muhammad because of the revelation to Him of the Furqan; and again in the One Who conversed with God (Moses) because of the revelation to Him of the Torah, then by the righteousness of God these are their selfsame Verses   BH01637

Consider that a person from the beginning of life to the end in all conditions is one person. Similarly the religion of God in all ages is one religion. In the beginning man is an embryo, then a nursing infant, then an adolescent child, then reaches maturity, then becomes a youth, then reaches perfection, then becomes old.  ABU0614

Although the Caller was one and the same, that call was raised from tree and stone and clay, while this call was raised from the Most Great and Glorious Manifestation. That wine was passed round in an earthen cup, while this pure wine circulated in a crystal goblet adorned with lustrous pearls. Great indeed is the difference!  AB08898

God leaves not His children comfortless, but, when the darkness of winter overshadows them, then again He sends His Messengers, the Prophets, with a renewal of the blessed spring. The Sun of Truth appears again on the horizon of the world shining into the eyes of those who sleep, awaking them to behold the glory of a new dawn.  ABU0625

As for your third question that the Promised One must be from the lineage of David and the tribe of Judah - the Promised One of the Torah was Christ, and He was from David's lineage. The Promised One of the Gospel was Muhammad, and the Promised One of the Quran was the Bab, and the Promised One of the Bayan is the Blessed Beauty.  AB00370

And there is no difference in the ages, for they have all appeared through God's Cause, and the Cause is one from all eternity... Beware, O people of unity, lest ye make any distinction between the Manifestations of God's Cause or in what hath been revealed unto them of verses - this is true unity, if ye be of those who are certain.  BH00134

As in the physical world there are four seasons, so in the realm of religion there is the season of heavenly and spiritual springtime...This is the law of God and is in accord with the world of creation and this is the cause for the reappearance of holy Manifestations Who effect renewal and change in religious laws and commandments.  ABU2227

That Manifest Light, His Holiness Abraham, prayed for his offspring, saying "O Kind Lord, make my progeny honored and leaders of the world." At the Divine Threshold, this prayer was accepted... until this Most Great Cycle arrived. The morn of the All-Merciful dawned, the dawn of oneness became bright, and the Sun of Truth shone forth.  AB01124

O people! By God, ye were created for this Day, and concerning this hath God taken a covenant from you in the particle of the Bayan, then in the particle of the Furqan, then in the particle of the Gospel, then in the particle of the Torah, then in the particle of every world of His worlds and every page of the pages of His glory.   BH01285

By God's life! The Truth, exalted be His glory, through His word the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds hath shown that the cessation of the Most Generous One's outpouring is neither permissible nor possible. Therefore, after the seal of prophethood He made mention of Divinity and taught mankind a new flight.  BH10243

Different teachings are needed for different people - if you gave the same teachings to all some might be retarded by them instead of helped...In the time of Moses, the law was given "an eye for an eye, or a tooth for a tooth" - it is very hard to see the wisdom of this - but the people then were in the wilderness and needed this teaching.  ABU0297

Religion is the outer expression of the divine reality. Therefore, it must be living, vitalized, moving and progressive. If it be without motion and nonprogressive, it is without the divine life; it is dead. The divine institutes are continuously active and evolutionary; therefore, the revelation of them must be progressive and continuous.  ABU0161

Abraham took the Covenant of Moses, and Moses was the Promised One of Abraham. He took the Covenant of Christ, and Christ was the Promised One of Moses. Christ took the Covenant of the Paraclete, and that is Muhammad. And Muhammad the Messenger of God was the Promised One of Christ. And He took the Covenant of the Bab who is My Promised One.   ABU0736

Thus in one Manifestation it is mentioned by the name of Jesus, then in another Manifestation by the name of Muhammad, Thy Beloved, then in another Manifestation by what Thou hast ordained from Thy presence, then in another Manifestation by what Thou hast created for that Manifestation. For verily it is the Hereafter in relation to this first life.  BB00043

At this time when the entire creation of the Qur'an hath returned, and the creation of all things hath begun within the Bayan, the habitation of the Point, Who is the Manifestation of Lordship, lieth upon the land called by the name Basit, where all the heavens that have been raised in the Qur'an are all wrapped up and returned unto the Primal Point.  BB00001

"For the Sun of Reality there was a rising out of the point of Moses. But when the Sun of Reality had moved to the point of Jesus, those who were holding to the point, instead of holding to the Sun, did not turn their faces to the point of Jesus. Therefore they were veiled. As the Sun of Reality moved on to the point of Mahomet, again were men veiled."  ABU0401

O people! We sent forth the First Creation by Our command, and We made him a Word, and We sent him to earth and made him the father of all creation. We gave him progeny from Our presence and made them inheritors. Then when ages and epochs passed, We sent forth Noah from Our presence to guide people unto God and give them glad tidings of these days.  BH00705

From the cycle of Adam until today, which spans twelve thousand two hundred and ten solar years, in every Dispensation He has appeared with a different name. In each Dispensation, previous Manifestations have been denied and judged as being other than truth. He has caused all to believe in His novel manifestation and to await His subsequent appearance.   BB00242

His Holiness Moses heard from the Tree of Sinai the call "Verily, I am thy Lord, the Most High!" and immediately cried out "Yea!" But in this mighty century when the call was raised from the Blessed Tree of Anisa, the Divine Lote Tree, the Beauty of Abha, most turned away and brought forth a hundred thousand excuses and objections and closed their eyes.   AB06347

Verily all the Manifestations that appeared before are manifest in this Revelation, and what shall appear hereafter is from that. In every subsequent Revelation, expect ye nothing after God, for there is naught after God, as ye know, nor is there aught before God, as ye know. When ye discover the Revelation of God in His Manifestation, ye shall know Him.   BB00292

The divine Manifestations since the day of Adam have striven to unite humanity so that all may be accounted as one soul. Their appearances have been successive and correlated; each One has announced and extolled the One Who was to follow, and all laid the foundation of reality. These holy Manifestations have been as the coming of springtime in the world.   ABU0149

Consider the example of every Revelation that God hath manifested aforetime, and verily on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, they who are given the Bayan will be tested like those who were given the Books before them. Perchance God will manifest the Manifestation of His Self while they, at the height of their piety in the Bayan, are being righteous.  BB00005

In the past, as in the present, the Spiritual Sun of Truth has always shone from the horizon of the East. Abraham appeared in the East. In the East Moses arose to lead and teach the people. On the Eastern horizon arose the Lord Christ. Muhammad was sent to an Eastern nation. The Bab arose in the Eastern land of Persia. Baha'u'llah lived and taught in the East.  ABU0937

O My handmaiden! Hearken with thy heart's ear unto the call of Ali in truth, then unto the call of Muhammad, then unto the call of the Spirit from the precincts of the Prison, that there is none other God but He, and that He Who hath appeared in truth is, verily, His sovereignty, His might and His grandeur unto all who dwell in the unseen and the visible realms.  BH11737

The great splendor of the day of Christ has gradually merged into the night, so that in this age there is hardly a ray of that great spiritual luminary lighting the world; but after the drought of summer and the cold of winter comes the new life of spring. After each sunset comes a sunrise. The spiritual light of the world has risen again from the eastern horizon.   ABU0108

The Truth doth today promote the Torah, the Gospel, and the Qur'an, and likewise promoteth all divine scriptures, psalms, and books. This is spoken in one station, and in another station: "He is the Creator of the heavens and earth. He hath come with a new Cause that hath no likeness in the past nor equal in the future. To this beareth witness His preserved Tablet."  BH00243

The Manifestations of God are likened unto the seeds. They contain all the perfections of the tree, but you can not see them until the tree grows up. The Blessed Lote-tree grew up from a single seed, yet all of the perfections and virtues which existed in the seed were not manifest until the seed sacrificed itself (its identity), that the tree might become apparent.  ABU0808

All Revelations have ended with this Most Great Revelation. This is He Whose covenant the Point of the Bayan took in the world of the Bayan, and Muhammad the Apostle of God in the world of the Furqan, and the Spirit in the world of the Gospel, and the Interlocutor in the world of the Torah, and the Friend in the world of the Command, if ye be of those who know.   BH00468

Thus, day is followed by night and the night-season overtaken by day. After a period of time, a new Dispensation of Reality dawns and divine effulgence shine forth from the horizon of truth. Spring then becomes summer and then fall and eventually winter. After winter, once more, the spiritual spring is born. And this is how divine bounties are propagated forevermore.  ABU1172

The scriptures of ordinances for them exist at the level of limitation, and in relation to that Primal Tree are but a shell. Hence the laws of the Prophets were abrogated, for the stage of the embryo could not bear the laws of the blood-clot. Thus were the laws abrogated from Prophet to Prophet until the day when the greater world reached the station of human creation.  BB00014

Were the creation of each Revelation not complete, God would not manifest the Manifestation of His Self in the next Revelation. This is God's balance, and it behooveth thee and every soul in every Revelation to establish the truth in such wise that nothing remaineth in God's dominion except that it seeketh shelter under His shadow, for less than this is not worthy of God.  BB00005

Furthermore, just as the solar cycle has its four seasons, the cycle of the Sun of Reality has its distinct and successive periods. Each brings its vernal season or springtime. When the Sun of Reality returns to quicken the world of mankind, a divine bounty descends from the heaven of generosity. The realm of thoughts and ideals is set in motion and blessed with new life.   ABU0174

Then after the First Innovation I made Myself known in every dispensation by whatever name I manifested, and revealed unto it the Book and ordained for it ways from My presence until this time, all worship Me, until I concluded all My manifestations with Muhammad, My Messenger from before, and revealed unto him the Furqan and ordained for him ways therein, and all seek Me.   BB00111

Send down, therefore, from Thy presence upon the Letters of Truth, and upon all creation which Thy knowledge hath encompassed, that which shall cause them to enter on that Day into this Religion until the Day of Resurrection, and then on that Day into the Faith which Thou shalt inaugurate, for verily it is nearer unto Thee than this, and verily it is the pure and unalloyed Truth  BB00004

Shouldst thou search for a beauty, seek the Beauty of the Everlasting One and should thou desire perfection turn towards the acquisition of divine qualities and attributes so that from the dawning place of this contingent existence thou mayest blaze forth with honour and with infinite glory and from the dayspring of this worldly condition thou mayest dazzle with great brilliance.  AB05694

By God! Not a single letter was revealed in the Bayan except concerning My Cause, and God hath taken My covenant from you in the atoms of the Bayan, then from Muhammad in the atoms of the Furqan, then from the Spirit in the atoms of the Gospel, then from Him Who conversed with God in the atoms of the Torah, then from the Friend of God in the atoms of sacred and preserved scrolls.   BH00402

And when Thou didst purpose to make Thyself known unto men, Thou didst successively reveal the Manifestations of Thy Cause, and ordained each to be a sign of Thy Revelation among Thy people, and the Day-Spring of Thine invisible Self amidst Thy creatures, until the time when, as decreed by Thee, all Thy previous Revelations culminated in Him Whom Thou hast appointed as the Lord of all.   BH02872

Consider each Manifestation's throne as the rising of a day, and were the creation of one Revelation not complete, God would not manifest the subsequent Throne. And all that is witnessed in every Revelation of manifested Thrones - these are the ornaments of that Revelation, the glories of that Concealment, the sublimities of that exalted Might, and the magnificence of that beloved Sanctity.  BB00005

We nurtured the creation of the Furqan for one thousand two hundred and seventy years, that perchance when they heard Our verses they might believe in Us and in Our proof. Thus have We admitted into the paradise of Our love those who followed Our verses and believed in Our proof, and We have forbidden from paradise those who, when they heard Our verses, said not "We are among the believers."   BB00135

My guides in every Dispensation enter into the subsequent Dispensation, and they are they who know Me. My guides in the Gospel are they who recognized Muhammad, My Messenger, and believed in Him. My guides in the Furqan are they who recognized the Point of the Bayan and believed in Him. And My guides in the Bayan are they who recognize Him Whom God shall make manifest and believe in Him.   BB00164

Let them alone. What would they do if a former king had reigned and a new king was now seated upon the throne? They must acknowledge the new king, or they are not true subjects of the Kingdom. Last year there was a springtime. Can a man say, 'I do not need a new springtime this year-the old springtime is enough for me'? No! the new spring must come to fill the earth with beauty and brightness.  ABU2095

Likewise, those who were given the Quran - had they recognized God their Lord when they heard a verse from God declaring There is no God but I, all would have believed in Him. But since they believed not, though they consider themselves religious in their own estimation, they must cause their souls to perish, for this is the foundation of their religion, but they understand not nor do they perceive.  BB00005

At every Manifestation He hath caused the previous Revelations to be superseded, that all might turn wholly toward Him, be drawn to the glory of His manifestation, be quickened by the holy breaths of His spirit, ascend unto the dawning-places of His Cause, and be exalted by the splendors of His majesty, so that none might linger in contemplation of past Dispensations or gaze upon their outward forms.  BB00005

For instance, in the day of Jesus Christ the world of humanity was afflicted with various ailments. Jesus Christ was the real Physician. He appeared, recognized the symptoms and prescribed the real remedy...Later on many new ailments and disorders appeared in the body politic. The world became sick; other severe maladies appeared, especially in the peninsula of Arabia. God manifested Muhammad there.   ABU0790

Be fair, ye peoples of the world; is it meet and seemly for you to question the authority of one Whose presence 'He Who conversed with God' (Moses) hath longed to attain, the beauty of Whose countenance 'God's Well-beloved' (Muhammad) had yearned to behold, through the potency of Whose love the 'Spirit of God' (Jesus) ascended to heaven, for Whose sake the 'Primal Point' (the Bab) offered up His life?  BH10746

The sun of truth rises in each season from a different point of the horizon -- to-day it is here, yesterday it was there, and to-morrow it will appear from another direction. Why do you keep your eyes eternally fixed on the same point? Why do you call yourselves Christians, Buddhists, Mohammedans, Bahais? You must learn to distinguish the sun of truth from whichever point of the horizon it is shining!  ABU1955

Consider the Manifestations of Unity who came before - did the ascension of the Spirit of God (Christ) cause the extinction of the fire of the love of God, or did it cause it to blaze more intensely? Did the departure of the Messenger (Muhammad) to other realms cause the decline of God's religion, or did it lead to the exaltation of the Word of God? And likewise with the other Manifestations of Unity.   AB01186

In every Revelation, open thine eye of truth that thou mayest not be confounded by the differences of that Revelation, and behold all Revelations with the gaze of oneness, and see everything in its proper place that thou mayest perceive no contradiction in that Revelation. Then shalt thou see the Path of God in every Revelation broader than the heaven that hath no beginning unto the earth that hath no end.  BB00005

The spirit has passed away from the bodies of the old religions. All the teachings of the great Manifestations are sublime, their lives stand out as brilliant stars; but time changes all things, and while the forms of their doctrines remain, the spirit has fled. These bodies are dead or dying; but the same spirit is reborn in a new body-that is, the Body of the Law contained in the utterances of Beha Ullah.  ABU0894

Were faith the form of the servant, then upon the earth would be found numbered communities, each created in human form. How then, O Letters of the Qur'an, do ye not admit into faith the Letters of the Gospel, even as your Lord will not admit you into faith except that ye enter among the Letters of the Bayan? Thus hath God exalted all the heavenly Books through the essence of pure and treasured camphor.  BB00004

And if God were to chastise thee for believing in His verses in this Revelation, then by what proof would He chastise those who believed not in 'Ali before, and before him in Muhammad the Messenger of God, and before him in Jesus son of Mary, and before him in Moses, and before him in Abraham, until the Revelations end at the First Creation who was created by the will of thy Lord, the Powerful, the Purposeful.  BH00343

The time has now come when men are keenly receptive of spiritual things, and the symbols, metaphors, and allegories (which are merely the casings of truth) can be unveiled, and their true meaning understood. It is to uncover and expose that which lies hidden in time and in the religions of the past, to infuse a new spirit into the peoples of the earth, that the New Dispensation has appeared in the world of men.  ABU1462

Verily God, glorified and exalted be He, from a beginning that hath no beginning, hath made Himself known to His creation by manifesting the Throne of His Revelation or by speaking with words of His might. And unto an end that hath no end, God will assuredly manifest even as He hath manifested before. In every Revelation God abrogates what was revealed before, that He may establish what shall be revealed thereafter.  BB00005

Let those who follow the Gospel reflect: Creation began with Jesus, and all upon the earth who were of the people of the Gospel should have been present in His day. Then you observe that creation, as it began with Jesus, returns to Muhammad with all who are upon the earth. Likewise should you reflect upon the Manifestation of the Bayan, then upon Him Whom God shall make manifest, and then unto the end that hath no end.  BB00034

We may say that this flower is exquisite; we must not say that it is the only beautiful one. Its perfections are of the divine bounty, a bounty that is universal and unlimited in its manifestations. The marvelous bounties of God are continuous. Should the outpouring of light be suspended, we would be in darkness. But how could it be withheld? If the divine graces are suspended, then divinity itself would be interrupted.  ABU0903

In the Name of God, the Most Near, the Most Near. Praise be to God Who hath, in this Revelation of the Bayan, renewed the creation of the heavens and of the earth and all that is between them, and hath adorned the creation of all things with the ornament of His transcendent sovereignty, that all things may testify to that which He hath created through His command - that there is no God but Him, the One, the All-Glorious.  BB00005

Look ye unto the Sun, for though it riseth again and again without equal, it is but one Sun. Thus doth the First Mention explain the verses of God for those who desire to enter into the religion of God. And when it setteth without equal, it is that same one Sun. Similarly, all the Messengers whom God sendeth are naught but from the First Mention in the Book of God. All begin from there and all return unto God, their Lord.  BB00085

"Among the bounties of God is revelation. Hence revelation is progressive and continuous. It never ceases. It is necessary that the reality of Divinity with all its perfections and attributes should become resplendent in the human world. The reality of Divinity is like an endless ocean. Revelation may be likened to the rain. Can you imagine the cessation of rain? Ever on the face of the earth somewhere rain is pouring down."  ABU0119

The spiritual cycles of the Sun of Truth, like the cycles of the physical sun, are in a state of perpetual motion and renewal. The Sun of Truth can be likened to the material sun, which rises from many different points. One day it rises from the sign of Cancer and another from the sign of Libra; one day it casts its rays from the sign of Aquarius and another from that of Aries. Yet the sun is but one sun and one single reality.  AB00086

The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual.  ABU0170

When He created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and nurtured all things from the first innovation unto Muhammad, the Messenger of God, then the portion of all existence was to meet Muhammad over twenty-three years, and this was the meeting with God in the primary reality. Then when He ascended and the creation of the night was realized, the meeting with His guides became His meeting in secondary reflection.  BB00003

Also know that the principles of Christianity and the commandments of Baha'Ullah are identical and that the roads are the same. But every day there is progress. There was a time when this divine institution was in an embryonic condition. Then it became newly born, a child, an intelligent child. Today it has reached maturity: its capacities, its body are the same, but today, it is resplendent, with the greatest beauty and brilliancy.   AB03880

Abraham proclaimed the Truth, Moses raised the Standard of Truth, Jesus established the Truth. Can we say that any one of them did not found it? All the prophets have been chosen by God to promulgate The Word. The teachings of the Manifestations are of two kinds;--first, the Word of God in its outer or material aspect;--second, the Word of God in its spiritual or inner significance. The first named is changeable; the second unchangeable.  ABU0026

The Sun is ever the same, but the place whence the Sun hath appeared hath changed. Then, at Christ's time, it appeared in the sign of Aquarius, but now it hath manifested itself from the sign of Cancer. These signs are just for an illustration. The sun is the same sun, no matter from what sign it may manifest itself or from what spot it may arise. Thou must look at the Sun; do not become veiled by the places from which the Sun appears.   AB00639

Moses was sent and established a Law. When Christ came, He confirmed Moses and gave utmost praise to Moses and the Torah, spreading His name to all horizons. And when Muhammad came, He declared that Christ was from God and the Gospel was the Book of God. Similarly He gave utmost praise to Moses. Even in the Quran there is a chapter specifically about Mary containing the highest praise and perfect glorification of Christ and the apostles.  ABU0154

His purpose, blessed and exalted be He, in revealing these diverse laws that flow from the ocean of His consummate wisdom is naught but the ease of His servants, their entry into the gardens of love and fellowship, and the removal of contention and strife. Yet through their failure to comprehend God's purpose, they raise the hands of tyranny and oppression in all regions and abandon that which God hath commanded concerning love and justice.  AB00018

When the world becomes dark and gloomy and heedlessness appears, God sends a divine soul... Then gradually those divine traces were effaced and satanic desires and passions prevailed. Darkness encompassed all. Then again the voice of unity was raised... After a time, people forgot these divine laws, no reality remained, and darkness and heedlessness and ignorance encompassed all. Now Baha'u'llah has come and renewed that original foundation.  ABU3763

The interpretation of this prophecy is this: the first Dispensation to which it refers is the Muhammadan Dispensation during which the Sun of Truth stood still for ten days. Each day is reckoned as one century. The Muhammadan Dispensation must have, therefore, lasted no less than one thousand years, which is precisely the period that has elapsed from the setting of the Star of the Imamate to the advent of the Dispensation proclaimed by the Bab.  AB01330

Already the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah has said in regard to the holy Books of the Pentateuch, the Gospel (Injil), the Qur'an, the Bayan and the Kitab-i-Aqdas: 'A Revelation is totally or partially out of date when it is no longer in accordance with all needs.' And in another place the same Prophet teaches us: 'Each succeeding Revelation is in some ways based on the previous ones and is in some respect more complete than the previous one.'   ABU0193

The example of the Manifestation of God is as the sun - though it should rise countless times as reckoned by those who count, it is but one sun, and though it should set countless times as reckoned by those who count, it is but one sun, if ye would observe with truth the primal Sun from the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end. In all Manifestations ye are guided by the throne of God's Revelation, then are ye saved.  BB00003

The Sun of Reality has a rising and a setting, a manifestation and an occultation. Then after a period, It dawns again from the horizon of Divinity and scatters Its lights upon the world of creation. It is like the season of spring which is ended by the coming of summer, autumn and winter. A hard winter of materialism is always followed by a flowery spring of Spirituality. This is the unalterable plan of the Dispensations of the heavenly Graces.   ABU0349

Consider those who were veiled from Muhammad, the Apostle of God: how throughout their lengthy existence they performed their works thinking they did well, while ye truly know that they were working for other than God. Likewise those who have entered the Bayan shall testify that ye work for other than God. Therefore have mercy upon yourselves, O people of the Furqan, and by God's compassion revealed in the Book, enter ye into the Most Great Paradise.  BB00003

And Thou hast ordained from it in every Manifestation what Thou hast loved, whereby Thy unitarians worship Thee and they who are detached turn unto Thee. I bear witness before Thee and before all things that, after what Thou didst manifest aforetime and the revelation of the Furqan upon him, Thou didst conceal him behind the veils of the Throne and store him within the tabernacle of glory for a Day Thou hadst ordained for the manifestation of Thy proof.  BB00030

And even supposing what you have mentioned were true, He says, exalted be His mention, that at the time of the later Revelation the spiritually learned become as dead and nothing, the letters and guides of light remain veiled, and the tree of affirmation is reckoned as negation. Likewise He says that many a soul who in one Revelation is among the most exalted dwellers of Paradise becomes in the subsequent Revelation among the lowliest denizens of the fire.  BH00004

And before Jesus, for a thousand years they awaited Moses for five hundred years, then when He came to them with the truth, they believed not. Then Jesus came to them after five hundred years with guidance and clear proofs, yet they believed not. Then Muhammad, the Messenger of God, came to them with the truth and what was revealed to Him from God, yet they believed not in Him. Then the Point of the Bayan came to them, yet they continue waiting until now.   BB00118

He whom God shall make manifest shall appear after the lapse of time, and on a day after the lapse of time after He whom God shall make manifest, He Who shall appear after He whom God shall make manifest shall be made manifest, and on a day of He Who shall appear after He whom God shall make manifest, He Who shall appear after He whom God shall make manifest shall be made manifest, unto the end that hath no end, even as the beginning that had no beginning.  BB00063

Bear thou witness that the likeness of what is manifest in the Messengers is as the likeness of the sun in the heaven, and the likeness of each Manifestation in each throne is as the likeness of the rising of the sun on a day when God causeth it to rise unto infinity and to set unto infinity - it is one and the same sun. Likewise, from the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end, that which is manifest in the Messengers is one Command  BB00005

That was My Word through the tongue of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, blessings of God rest upon Him, and This is My Word through the tongue of the Lord of the seven letters, the Gate of God. He who hath believed in That, he hath no place to flee to, should he desire to remain firm in faith, except to believe in These verses, otherwise his inmost reality and his deeds would be dissipated and lost, as it was in the day in which naught was mentioned before God.  BB00001

Then suddenly the gardener appears on the scene, cuts a green branch from the same tree and plants it again in a prepared soil. It starts its upward growth till it fills the place of its parent stock. Now this tree is the same old tree, only renewed. But those people who have grown too old to understand the real situation hold fast to the rotten root and shut their eyes to the beauty and elegance of the new tree. Now is the time for the plantation of the new tree.   ABU0538

Beside this passage, there is yet another verse in the Gospel wherein He saith: Heaven and earth shall pass away: but My words shall not pass away. Thus it is that the adherents of Jesus maintained that the law of the Gospel shall never be annulled, and that whensoever the promised Beauty is made manifest and all the signs are revealed, He must needs reaffirm and establish the law proclaimed in the Gospel, so that there may remain in the world no faith but His faith.  BH00002

The power of God is eternal and the creation of God is likewise eternal. Divinity is dependent on creation. Can you imagine a king without a people? Can you imagine our sun without light and heat? The sun to us means light and heat. The king needs his kingdom and the qualities of God are eternal. As long as God exists his creation will exist and the manifestations of God in the divine teachers have always existed as an energy of God and will always continue to exist.   ABU0302

Consider from the first moment thou didst enter into thy religion - hast thou seen any Prophet or Proof except that thou didst witness the Qur'an from God, the Lord of all worlds, and didst derive evidence therefrom without any doubt, and wert among those who were certain? Judge fairly - when thou didst behold the Qur'an or the verses of the Bayan, didst thou see anything that would veil thee from this or cause thee to doubt this, if thou art among the discerning ones?   BB00066

Between Moses and David, hundreds passed; between David - peace be upon him - and Jesus, hundreds passed; between Jesus - peace be upon him - and Muhammad, the Messenger of God, hundreds passed, with slight increase or decrease. From the beginning of Muhammad's Revelation to the manifestation of the Point of the Bayan, a thousand passed, and from that Revelation to Him Whom God shall make manifest, His power hath been exalted and elevated, His remembrance made glorious and sublime.  BB00005

From them it is understood that man hast two lives, the material and the Spiritual. As to the bodily life, man shares it with the animals; his powers and feelings are the same, and for this reason, in this state, man is called dead. Jesus said, "Let the dead bury their dead", and man in this state, is in darkness. As to the spiritual state of life, it is heavenly, divine and supreme, and of this condition of man it is said in the Koran, "Let us quicken him by a pure life and spirit."   ABU0333

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that divine bounty is continuous. Divine manifestations are continuous. The breathings of the Holy Spirit are continuous. The doors of the Kingdom are open and the Sun of Truth always has its rising and setting. Divine sovereignty is continuous and does not end. The reality of Christ came before, has come again and will come again because this reality manifests in divine Manifestations. The sun is one sun but it has multiple rising places and horizons.   ABU0250

Each of the Manifestations of God has likewise a cycle wherein His religion and His law are in full force and effect. When His cycle is ended through the advent of a new Manifestation, a new cycle begins. Thus, cycles are inaugurated, concluded, and renewed, until a universal cycle is completed in the world of existence and momentous events transpire which efface every record and trace of the past; then a new universal cycle begins in the world, for the realm of existence has no beginning.   AB00206

Just as you observed that in the day of the manifestation of the Point of the Furqan (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) the lights of bounties from that shining Luminary were clear and visible and radiant upon the world of existence, and for a thousand years that divine bounty flowed upon the hills and regions and realities of contingent beings, and when the cycle ended, those traces and lights returned to the Kingdom of the Unseen. Then there was a new effulgence and a new light dawned.   AB00355

Through Our bounty was created the First, though It hath no first - verily We are the Eternal. Through Our bounty was created the Last, though It hath no last - verily We are the Eternal. Through Our bounty was created the Primal Point, God's creation among the worlds. Through Our bounty were created Seth before Noah and Abraham. Through Our bounty were created Moses and Jesus after Abraham. Through Our bounty was created Muhammad before 'Ali before Muhammad before Him Whom God shall make manifest.  BB00107

As for the tradition that in former times two letters were revealed but in the time of the Qa'im all the remaining letters would be manifested - the meaning is that all the traces, sciences, laws, regulations, innovations, crafts and human perfections that appeared in former times were like two letters, but in this wondrous Revelation and emergence of the precious treasury, human perfections and virtues and infinite sciences and arts will reach such a degree as to be like all the remaining letters.  AB01555

View the time before the Resurrection like unto the Day of Resurrection itself. Even as one possessed of insight in the religion of the Messenger of God would see that among all these followers of Jesus, none save those seventy souls were truly upon the straight path. The same is true of the Qur'an. But praise and thanks be to the Ever-Living Who dieth not, for in the Dispensation of the Bayan He made His Names endless and His guides numberless, and adorned this Paradise with diverse heavenly ornaments.  BB00005

Consider how one and the same light has reflected itself in the different mirrors or manifestations of it. The Sun of Reality revealed itself from the Mosaic mirror. The people who were sincere accepted and believed in it. When the same Sun shone from the Messianic mirror, the Jews who were not lovers of the Sun and who were fettered by their adoration of the mirror of Moses did not perceive the lights and effulgences of the Sun of Reality resplendent in Jesus; therefore, they were deprived of its bestowals.  ABU0196

The Manifestation of Moses created some effect in both realms but only in Syria, not in any other country. The Israelites who inhabited Syria, progressed both in material and spiritual knowledge. During the time of Jesus Christ some attention was given Him in different parts of the earth. The centuries which preceded and followed His Appearance received the Blessings of His coming in different degrees and both senses and minds were beautified. During the advent of Mahomet, interest was created only in Arabia.   ABU0569

In the time of Moses, the children of Israel were in the wilderness. There was no ease and comfort. Therefore ten offences were made punishable by death. In the time of Christ there were towns and cities and civilization. The exigencies of the time did not require these ten laws for capital punishment, so he abolished them. Why? Because the time and circumstances were different. In the former time these laws were necessary, but in Christ's time, they were no longer necessary and in this time other arrangements are required.   ABU0685

The divine religions, by which are meant those based upon divine revelation and possessing a book, are seven in number. Consider the great world religions of to-day. They are Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, Mohammedanism, Buddhism and Confucianism, each of which branches into many sects and denominations. According to the Bahai belief all the truth of these six religions is embraced within a seventh -- the revelation of Baha'o'llah -- which completes and fulfils the promises and prophecies of the prophets of the past.  ABU0045

For in every Manifestation when the dawn of guidance shone forth, its subject was a particular matter. In the days of Moses, the subject of God's law was obedience and submission to the Lord of Hosts... And in the day when the brilliant Sun of Christ dawned, the subject and foundation of His law was good character, fellowship and harmony... And in the day of Muhammad's appearance, the subject of God's command and foundation of religion was breaking of idols, prevention of idol worship, humbling of pharaohs and abasement of tyrants.  AB00414

For whoso was in the paradise of the letter Alif of Thy Book which Thou didst reveal before the Qur'an until what Thou revealest was in Thy paradise, and whoso was not therein was in Thy fire. But when Thou didst reveal the Qur'an, whoso believed in it entered the most exalted paradise, and whoso believed not in it entered into the most severe fire. And likewise, O my God, when Thou didst reveal the Bayan, for the paradise of the Qur'an compared to the paradise of the Bayan is as the manifestation of the first life compared to the latter   BB00127

Furthermore, it is known to you that the commentary on Ahsanu'l-Qisas was revealed according to the people's understanding. This was due to pure grace, that perchance the heedless and ignorant might ascend to the heaven of knowledge. Indeed, most of the subjects mentioned therein were matters already established among the followers of the Furqan. Had it been revealed from the beginning according to what God intended, none would have accepted it or remained steadfast. All this was of His grace unto His creation and His bounty unto His servants.  BH00135

Know that the world and all that is therein is transformed every moment and altered with every breath, for change, transformation and transition are essential requirements of the contingent world, while immutability and changelessness are characteristics of the realm of divine necessity. Hence, were the condition of the phenomenal world to remain constant, its essential requirements would likewise remain unchanged. Since change and transformation are ordained and established, its necessary relationships must also undergo alteration and transition.  AB00068

Thus in every Dispensation He appears with a name, and this is none other than Muhammad, the Messenger of God, Who has appeared on the Day of Resurrection through the Manifestation of God. From the beginning of the Qur'an to its end there is no mention more great than this, and His meeting is the meeting with God, for meeting the Ancient Essence is impossible. Whatever is mentioned in the Qur'an about meeting God refers to meeting that Reality, which God has attributed to meeting with Himself as an honor, just as He has called the Ka'bah His House.  BB00094

Springtime is the time of buds and blossoms and flowers, but the season of fruits is after the springtime. The days of the Manifestations of God are like the season of the spring. In the time of the Manifestation Moses, the buds and flowers which appeared were turned into fruits some time after Moses' departure. Similarly in the days of his Holiness Christ, his words and utterances produced fruit afterwards. At the time of His Holiness the Prophet, (Mohammed) he planted the tree of Tooba with his own hand, but that tree also produced fruits afterward.  ABU1412

Abraham was a prophet for his own people; Moses was a prophet for the Israelites, and through his power other prophets were manifested among the Israelites. Jesus Christ, through his spiritual power, taught a few in his time, through in reality there were only twelve disciples, one of whom Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him, thus leaving eleven who remained with the Master. In the cycle of Muhammed, the prophet was a forcible power, and in the cycle of Baha'o'llah (Glory be to Him!) there existed the greatest spirituality and forbearance of oppression.   ABU1385

In each Revelation those who answer are distinguished from those who remain silent, otherwise, all answer in regard to the previous Dispensation. For example, can anyone be found today in the world of Islam, who would not utter the two declarative words of faith, and would not acknowledge that which is derived thereof, like viceregency and the laws of the Qur'an? Nay, this is unthinkable. But it is in the Next Revelation that the sincere men of truth would be distinguished from the insincere men of untruth, by virtue of their answer to the call of God.  BB00001

The early days of every Manifestation is called the spring- when you see the seeds first sprouting, and everything is young and tender. Then follows the summer season, when things have reached a state of perfection, and the fruits are gathered. Then comes the autumn season, when everything begins to fall into decay, after which speedily comes the winter, when all is dead, and without any apparent life. God is almost forgotten, and the hearts are turned to the world entirely. But when this state is reached, it is a sign that a new sprint time is coming.  ABU0895

In former days, in the time of the Buddha and Zoroaster, civilization in Asia and in the East was very much higher than in the West and ideas and thoughts of the Eastern peoples were much in advance of, and nearer to the thoughts of God than those of the West. But since that time superstitions had crept into the religion and ideals of the East, and from many differing causes the ideals and characters of the Eastern peoples had gone down and down, lower and lower, while the Western peoples had been constantly advancing and struggling towards the Light.   ABU0769

Glorified, glorified art Thou! For I, O my God, despite my insignificance, surely witness the varieties of Thy creation: him whom Thou didst create through the Gospel - in those days my soul was not content; and him whom Thou didst create through the Torah thereafter likewise; and him whom Thou didst create through the Furqan thereafter similarly. Yea, in those days Thou wilt surely create me through the verses, but verily I witness with mine own eyes that Thou wilt surely create another creation and wilt surely make that creation like the former Books.  BB00011

Just as the sun sets and rises and sets again, so Jesus Christ appeared on the horizon of this world like a sun of Truth, bringing light and joy to the whole world. But the people now are not in such close touch with his spirit: their religion and faith are not so strong. The people are searching after material things instead of looking forward to the kingdom. Again God has sent light and truth into the world. The heavenly star has appeared in Persia; a new spiritual illumination is now penetrating throughout the world (the result of Baha'u'llah's teaching).   ABU0977

The occurrences were repeated. We can not say that what happened in the time of Christ was remarkable, since the same had happened before. We can not say that it is extraordinary that the present springtime follows that of last year. We can not say this year that these blossoms are useless because the same ones appeared last spring. The last spring gave out its benefits, and summer, autumn, and winter followed. If a new spring did not come to the world everything would die. In every springtime there will be repeated what has happened in previous springtimes.   ABU0557

In every Revelation, when that which ye manifest appears greater in your eyes, therefore He Whom God shall make manifest will announce to you afterwards the names of what appeared before, if ye would but reflect. That future abode is greater than the first life, and its people are greater, if ye would bear witness to the truth. On the day when God raised up Muhammad, the people in their own eyes greatly magnified Jesus. Therefore He informed them of His mention of Himself, and likewise before Jesus in Moses, and thus do ye witness until the wondrous First Day.  BB00003

And in one station We mean by the Unseen the realities of Oneness and the eternal essences who were concealed in the Manifestations of old, as ye witness and are among those who testify. In the time of Moses, the Unseen was none other than Jesus in the heaven of names, and He foretold His appearance and was hidden in His days. Likewise the Unseen in the time of the Spirit (Jesus) was Muhammad, the Messenger of God and Seal of the Prophets. Similarly the Unseen in His days was none other than 'Ali, through meeting whom the eyes of those near to God were solaced.   BH00629

In the Name of God, the Most Great, the Most Great! The glory from God resteth upon the Primal Unity and upon those who bear such likeness unto that Unity that naught can be seen in them save the Primal Unity. I testify that the likeness of the Books of God is as the likeness of the sun - though it rise countless times, it is but one sun, and though it set countless times, it is but one sun. Similarly, though Books be revealed from God times without number, they are but one Book, and though they be raised up times without number, they are raised up unto God and are but one Book.  BB00654

Behold then the first day when God brought him into His presence and he prostrated himself before the throne of the Point of the Bayan, for verily the Qur'an and all that is therein was created for the Bayan and all that is therein, and verily the Bayan and all that is therein was created for Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His mention, and what God shall reveal unto Him. Then all before exists for what comes after, and thou shalt find no limit to the love of God as thou findest no beginning for it, for through it the beginning is created and through it the return is brought forth.  BB00080

Heard it ye ever reported by your fathers of old, or by the generations that preceded them, even unto the first Adam, that any one coming in the clouds of revelation, being invested with manifest and transcendent sovereignty, having on his right hand the Kingdom of God and on his left all the power and glory of His everlasting dominion, any one preceded by the hosts of God, the Almighty, the All-Compelling, the Most Powerful, and uttering continually verses whose import the minds of the most learned and wisest of men are powerless to fathom, should yet be the bearer of a message that is not of God?   BH00657

O thou seeker after truth! The world of the Kingdom is one world. The only difference is that spring returneth over and over again, and setteth up a great new commotion throughout all created things. Then plain and hillside come alive, and trees turn delicately green, and leaves, blossoms and fruits come forth in beauty, infinite and tender. Wherefore the dispensations of past ages are intimately connected with those that follow them: indeed, they are one and the same, but as the world groweth, so doth the light, so doth the downpour of heavenly grace, and then the Daystar shineth out in noonday splendor.  AB00276

This religion is like unto man, for just as man developeth gradually until he reacheth the station of perfection, and at each stage manifest certain ordinances and effects, so too is it with this religion. For the Law of Adam, peace be upon him, was as the seed, and the Law of Noah, peace be upon him, was as the clot, and the Law of Abraham, peace be upon him, was as the lump of flesh, and the Law of Moses, peace be upon him, was as the bones, and the Law of Jesus, peace be upon him, was as the clothing of flesh, and the Law of Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, was as the breathing of the spirit.  BB00023

So when there is a New Manifestation, it does not mean the same One, but One who comes with the same attributes and characteristics (of God). And as in the material world, there is a necessity for a renewal of the seasons, which are the same and yet are not the same, so it is with the religion of God. There must be a renewal; it is the same religion but with conditions to suit the time of the world's people, and though the Prophet which reveals the religion is the Manifestation of God, yet He brings new rays of the same Light, or the same rays, but they strike and reach the people at a different point of view.   ABU0525

If thou art in the midst of that Manifestation, then establish the Cause of that Manifestation according to thy capacity. But watch over thyself at the time of the subsequent Manifestation, for all shall be tested then if thou art among the discerning ones. Thou mayest desire to establish the former Manifestation while veiling thyself from God thy Lord in the subsequent Manifestation, thinking thyself among those who establish the truth, when in fact by being veiled from the subsequent Manifestation thou art veiled from the former Manifestation, nay, from the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end.  BB00003

Everything in the world is subject to change. But this transmutation and change are requirements of life. See, for instance, these flowers before us. They come forth from a seed. They grow to perfection, but when they have reached the state of perfection they go back again. This is the invariable law of creation. Likewise man develops until he has grown to maturity. When he reaches beyond the state of maturity he begins to decline. All religions of God are subject to this same law. They are founded in order to blossom out and develop and fulfill their mission. They reach their zenith and then decline and come to an end.   ABU0292

All down the ages the prophets of God have been sent into the world to serve the cause of truth -- Moses brought the law of truth, and all the prophets of Israel after him sought to spread it. When Jesus came He lighted the flaming torch of truth, and carried it aloft so that the whole world might be illumined thereby. After Him came His chosen apostles, and they went far and wide, carrying the light of their Master's teaching into a dark world -- and, in their turn, passed on. Then came Muhammad, who in His time and way spread the knowledge of truth among a savage people, for this has always been the mission of God's elect.  ABU0502

Praise be to God Who manifested Himself in the blessed spot, the holy land, Mount Sinai, the Vale of Tuwa, to Moses the Interlocutor; Who shone forth in the holy wilderness, the sacred valley, Mount Seir, the white spot and the illumined shore, upon Jesus Christ; Who appeared in Paran of love, the Dawning-place of lights, the Day-spring of divine traces, in the spiritual plain, Yathrib of mysteries, with a brilliance like unto the midday sun, upon Muhammad, the Beloved; Who gleamed and shed light in the essence of glory and the reality of praise, the Lamp of the Concourse on High, the Primal Point, the horizon of divine unity   AB00087

The point is that Moses planted a tree that yielded the fruit of pleasing morals, perfections and great progress - and that tree was the Cause of God and the Law of God. But when it grew old it ceased to bear fruit. Christ came and again planted a sapling from the same root that gave sweet fruits and benefits, and likewise did the other Prophets. But the foundation of divine religions has been abandoned, and now all remain fruitless with nothing but traditions remaining in the hands of nations. Therefore Baha'u'llah has again planted a tree that will yield the fruit of peace and bring forth the fruit of the unity of humankind.  ABU0062

Then many ages roll on, the world outgrows those institutes, the Fragrances of Spirituality are hushed, the Fire of the Love of God becomes extinct, the primal object is lost sight of, the winter of materialism is set in, the flowers of the love of God are withered, the Breezes of Divine Faith do not waft, the bats of ritualism and narrowness began to fly abroad in the darkness of unbelief, the sun of spontaneous social service is covered behind the clouds of superstitions and the summit of the hearts hidden under the snow of agnosticism - then a new Revelation is sent by God to blow over the dead bones the spirit of regenesis.   ABU0969

Note well the difference: at one time the Teachings of God were as a staff, and by this means the Holy Scriptures were spread abroad, the Law of God was promulgated and His Faith established. Then followed a time when the staff of the true Shepherd was as iron. And today, in this new and splendid age, the rod is even as pure gold. How wide is the difference here! Know, then, how much ground hath been gained by the Law of God and His Teachings in this dispensation, how they have reached such heights that they far transcend the dispensations gone before: truly this rod is purest gold, while those of other days were of iron and wood.   AB00342

Thou hast ever made Thyself known through a single Sun which Thou didst make as a sign of Thy Will, and through it Thou didst create whatsoever Thou didst wish in the kingdom of Thy command and creation, until Thou didst bring creation unto the First Innovation, and from the First Innovation unto David, and revealed unto him the Psalms...Then Thou didst complete the creation of that Manifestation and didst reveal Thyself through Thy power unto Moses...Then Thou didst reveal Thyself through Thy power unto Jesus, son of Mary...When Thou didst raise it to its zenith, Thou didst cause it to be sheltered in the shade of Muhammad, Thy Beloved...   BB00680

Both these sayings have but one meaning, were you to ponder upon the Manifestations of the Unity of God with divine insight. Consider the sun. Were it to say now, I am the sun of yesterday, it would speak the truth. And should it, bearing the sequence of time in mind, claim to be other than that sun, it still would speak the truth. In like manner, if it be said that all the days are but one and the same, it is correct and true. And if it be said, with respect to their particular names and designations, that they differ, that again is true. For though they are the same, yet one doth recognize in each a separate designation, a specific attribute, a particular character.  BH00002

The days of Moses were like spring. When the Children of Israel became captive to autumn and were in utmost humiliation and wandering in the darkness of ignorance, the white hand of Moses gave them spiritual feelings and heavenly education and bestowed the bounty of April showers. After the spiritual spring, the season changed to winter. That spring splendor vanished. They returned to their original state, became frozen, and darkness prevailed. Christ was a spiritual spring. He pitched His tent at the pole of horizons. He manifested those spiritual feelings greater than before. The world gained a new splendor. The human world was set in motion. Then autumn came again.  ABU0633

Materialism prevailed and all human thoughts were confined to the material world. None remained attentive to God. The gates of divine knowledge were closed, the fire of the love of God was completely extinguished, and all humanity was submerged in the sea of matter. Then Abraham appeared... After a time, those lights were again extinguished. Material darkness enveloped the world. People became heedless of God and paid no attention to the Kingdom. Moses appeared... After a time, that lamp was again extinguished... In such a state, the Star of Christ arose... Then Arabia grew dark... Muhammad appeared in Arabia... Then again, all was overturned... At this time, the Bab appeared in Persia. The Star of Baha'u'llah arose.  ABU0082

We have been taught that BAHA'O'LLAH was the Seventh of a series of great World (Universal) Manifestations of this present cycle, Christ being the sixth, Melchesidec the fifth, while the first four were before the compilation of our present world history, and of them we have no records; that their teachings were applicable to all mankind under all conditions; while upon the other hand the Manifestations, such as Zoroaster, Abraham, Moses, Mohammed and the Bab were sent each to a certain people, bringing teachings which were applicable to those certain conditions and people only, while the teachings of the World Manifestations were not limited in their application to peoples. Is this teaching correct? A. --Yes, it is correct.   ABU1524

Look thou with the gaze of the beginning at what thou beholdest concerning Adam, the First One, then those who came after him until the Cause reached unto 'Ali-Qabli-Nabil. Say: By God! All of them came from the Dayspring of the Cause with a Book, a Scroll, and a mighty Tablet, and each was given according to what was ordained for them, and this is of Our grace upon them, if ye be of them that know. And all of them delivered the messages of their Lord and gave glad-tidings unto the people concerning the good-pleasure of God, the All-Subduing, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, and brought forth the people from darkness unto light, and gave them glad-tidings of the meeting with God, even as ye have read in the scriptures of old.   BH00248

O seeker after truth! Your letter was received. You had written that Aqa Mirza Ahmad Khan Yazdani had given you an exposition of the Cause of Baha'u'llah, and you wrote exactly what he said: that the Baha'i Faith is reality, and these other religions are, compared to the Baha'i Faith, purely metaphorical and yield no mighty results. Though they appear to have foundation in the eyes of men, they are like fruitless trees. How many trees there are that outwardly appear mighty and cast a shadow, yet bear no fruit and are ultimately uprooted, as you have observed and continue to observe. But the divine foundation is a tree that casts its shadow over East and West and yields mighty results at every moment, as has been proven until now.  AB01007

When the Sun of Reality shone from the Mosaic horizon and bestowed infinite bounty, it then set and rose from the horizon of Jesus, illumining the world with eternal outpourings, breathing the Holy Spirit into the body of contingent being, and bestowing eternal life. After Him, the Muhammadan Dawning-Place arose and illumined the world of contingent being, dispelled tyranny and oppression, and raised high the pavilion of justice and equity. After Him, the Primal Point arose and revived the world of existence with the Most Great Glad-Tidings, bestowed the lights of guidance, and revealed the mysteries of reality. Now the Most Great Luminary, the Star of the Supreme Concourse, from the horizon of the Most Great Bounty--Baha'u'llah--has shed its utmost effulgence upon all regions.  ABU0215

For example, in the days of Moses, that which was required by and consonant with the conditions prevailing at that time was the Mosaic Law. However, in the days of Christ, those conditions had so changed as to render the Mosaic Law unsuited and ill-adapted to the needs of mankind, and it was therefore abrogated. Thus Christ broke the Sabbath and forbade divorce. After Him four disciples, Peter and Paul among them, permitted the eating of such animal foods as had been forbidden in the Torah, excepting the consumption of the meat of animals that had been strangled, of sacrifices made to idols, and of blood. They also forbade fornication. Thus they maintained these four commandments. Later, Paul permitted the eating of strangled animals, of those sacrificed to idols, and of blood, but maintained the prohibition of fornication.   AB00211

The divine religions are like the progression of the seasons of the year. When the earth becomes dead and desolate and because of frost and cold no trace of vanished spring remains, the springtime dawns again and clothes everything with a new garment of life. The meadows become fresh and green, the trees are adorned with verdure and fruits appear upon them. Then the winter comes again, and all the traces of spring disappear. This is the continuous cycle of the seasons -- spring, winter, then the return of spring. The divine Prophets are as the coming of spring, each renewing and quickening the teachings of the Prophet Who came before Him. Just as all seasons of spring are essentially one as to newness of life, vernal showers and beauty, so the essence of the mission and accomplishment of all the Prophets is one and the same.   ABU0178

His Holiness Abraham (peace be upon Him) took the covenant of the Promised One, Moses, and gave tidings of His appearance. His Holiness Moses took the covenant of the Promised One, Christ, and gave the world glad tidings of His manifestation. His Holiness Christ took the covenant of the Paraclete and gave tidings of His appearance. His Holiness Muhammad took the covenant of the Bab, and the Bab was the Promised One of Muhammad, for He gave tidings of His appearance. The Bab took the covenant of the Blessed Beauty, Baha'u'llah, and gave tidings of His appearance, for the Blessed Beauty was the Promised One of the Bab. And the Blessed Beauty took the covenant of a Promised One Who will appear after a thousand or thousands of years - that Promised One is the Blessed Beauty and He will appear after a thousand or thousands of years.  AB01184

Verily, David did sow in the days of His Revelation that which was revealed unto Him in the Psalms, and caused to grow in His Revelation a tender and well-beloved growth which God nurtured through what He had ordained in that Revelation until those souls bore fruit in the Revelation of Moses - all were believers in Him. Likewise did Moses sow what God revealed unto Him in the Torah in the essences of those unto whom He revealed Himself through His Own Manifestation, and He caused to grow from the earth in His Revelation a verdant and well-beloved growth which God nurtured through what He had ordained in that Revelation until God made manifest Jesus, whereupon they believed in Him. These were the fruits that were borne from what Moses had sown in the worlds. Then Jesus did sow in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and what lieth between them through what God revealed unto Him in the Gospel, and caused to grow in His Revelation a tender and glorious growth which God nurtured over the space of two hundred years until He made manifest Muhammad, the Apostle of God, from His presence, whereupon they believed in Him.   BB00193

Yet all of the Torah speaks of Christ, all of the Gospel tells of the noble Prophet's advent, all of the Quran contains texts about the First Point, and all of the Bayan speaks of the appearance of the Most Glorious Beauty. But "none knows its interpretation save God and those firm in knowledge."   AB00353

In Noah's time, the world lacked the capacity for Abraham's laws. For example, all sea creatures were permitted in Noah's time, while some became forbidden in Moses' time. This relates to the capacity of the time and receptivity of the age. The laws revealed in Moses' time did not exist in Abraham's time. Why not? Because that time lacked the capacity. If the time had possessed the capacity, God would not have withheld them.  ABU0367

When Christ appeared, the people among whom he came were in a low state of intelligence there was little or no discussion of abstruse questions among them. Buddha, though earlier, came to a part of the world where civilisation was much more advanced, which was ripe in philosophical and metaphysical speculations. Mahomet found wild tribes and hordes of uncivilised barbarians.  ABU1396

And if it be said that what appeared in this wondrous Revelation had no precedent and all is new, this saying too is correct and complete. For if God, exalted be His mention, should today utter a word that all people past and future have uttered and will utter, that word would be new, were ye to reflect. Consider the word of unity, which the Manifestations of Truth have uttered in every Revelation, and likewise all peoples of diverse faiths have uttered this goodly word. Yet in each Revelation it hath been renewed, and never hath its quality of innovation been taken from it. When God uttereth a word, a fresh spirit is breathed into that word, and the breezes of life from that word waft over all things, both outwardly and inwardly. None can tell for how long the effects of God's word, as manifested in the horizons without and within, shall endure.  BH00112
