Now engage yourself in commerce  AB11407

consider the expansion of commerce, industry and agriculture as the foundation of success.   AB01920

Another characteristic of progress consists in...extending the spheres of arts and commerce  ABU3257

It is my hope that means may be devised for Iran that would lead to universal comfort and assurance  AB06630

to investigate the state of political parties, government, civilization, industry, commerce and agriculture   AB06412

Iran's constitution is strengthened through promotion of commerce, increase of industry, expansion of agriculture  AB00808

so that in the future it may include all points, such as commerce, industry and education so that spiritual and material results and benefits might be produced.   AB01883

They will organize new industries; found the traces of civilization, various factories, the spread of commerce, increase of agriculture, and the universalization of learning.  AB09117

Among the greatest means of achieving modern advancements, the prosperity of nations, and the civilization of the peoples is the establishment of companies for commerce, industry, and other sources of wealth  AB11381

If the revered personage seeketh to assist the Iranian government to endure and prevail, and to aid its people to progress and prosper, he must, of a certainty, promote the establishment of a constitutional government.  AB11815

Change the name of this society to the Persian-American Association so that in future it may embrace all aspects of relationship, including commerce, industry and education, and both material and spiritual benefits may be obtained.  AB10593

This association will lead to the promotion of American goods in Iran. The great benefits that other nations derive through commerce and promotion of goods from Iran will all redound to America. Consider what universal benefits will result.   AB00968

new fields of human activities, new undertakings gave deeper significance to the law of co-operation; new arts helped to make life more beautiful and new international laws are now in the process of formation to bind all nations of the earth together.   ABU0644

riches earned by personal effort with divine assistance, in various trades, agriculture and the arts, and rightly administered, are justly deserving of praise, forasmuch as if a wise and discerning man acquires them, they become a ready means of benefit to the state  ABU3427

each state autonomous within its boundary, interdependent and working for the common prosperity, general advancement, expansion of commerce, diffusion of learning, the welfare of the whole community, the socialization of industries and the improvement of arts, inventions, crafts and sciences.  ABU1386

God willing, novel thoughts from the mother principles of governance, specifically regarding the comfort, joy and ease of humanity, must ever arise. The gaze must at all times be fixed upon all the peoples of the world. That is, souls who have accepted the Truth and are related to God must look to the welfare of all who dwell on earth.   BH01033

Would it seem shortsighted, improvident and unsound, would it constitute a deviation from what is right and proper, if we were to strengthen our relationships with neighboring countries, enter into binding treaties with the great powers, foster friendly connections with well-disposed governments, look to the expansion of trade with the nations of East and West, develop our natural resources and increase the wealth of our people?  AB00004

