Through rational proofs, clear as the sun, it is established that created things have a Creator.  ABU0031

In scholarly gatherings he proves the divinity and oneness of God, the possibility of revelation, the power of prophethood, the truth of the prophets   AB00966

They say that had there been a spiritual world they would have sensed it. But, as a matter of fact, inability to sense a thing is not a proof of the nonexistence of that thing.   ABU3156

Verily in the innovation of night and day, and their interweaving, and the bringing forth of the living from the dead and the dead from the living are signs for the remembrance of God, the Most Great.  BB00002

Therefore, there is no proof of Him save His holy Essence, and no path unto Him save His sanctified Identity. He hath ever been a proof unto His own Self, and shall ever be known through His own Being   BH00476

Therefore today I will speak to you of the proofs which establish scientifically the existence of God... There is such a great difference between theories upheld by belief, and facts which are substantiated by science. Beliefs are the susceptibilities of the conscience, but scientific facts are the deductions of reason and inexorable logic.   ABU0591

Say: God is the Creator of all things. Is there any god besides Him Who splitteth the grain and the date-stone? Say: Glorified be God! All stand ready at His bidding. Say: Who cleft the sea for Moses, if ye be of them that know? They will surely answer God.  BB00003

Do you not reflect upon the creation of the heavens and your own selves, with a swift reflection, in truth, with truth, through truth? Verily God created not the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them in truth and through truth in vain or for sport.  BB00002

Before a step is taken in this direction we must be able to prove Divinity from the standpoint of reason so that no doubt or objection may remain for the rationalist. Afterward, we must be able to prove the existence of the bounty of God -- that the divine bounty encompasses humanity and that it is transcendental.  ABU0150

All things are known only through the manifestation of His light in the essential and accidental realities, so that each may attain, through knowledge of that station, to all the stations which God hath ordained for it in the verses of the manifestations of the Beginning and the appearances of the End, even unto the final goal.   BB00195

I have brought rational proofs for the existence of Divinity. I have brought rational proofs for the existence of revelation. I have established rational arguments that the mercy of the Lord is continuous, that the gates of the Kingdom are open, that divine bounty is eternal, that the rays of the Sun of Reality are shining and have no cessation.  ABU0240

Thus such a chain of causation must of necessity lead eventually to Him who is the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, who is Self-Dependent and the Ultimate Cause. This Universal Reality cannot be sensed, it cannot be seen. It must be so of necessity, for it is All-Embracing, not circumscribed, and such attributes qualify the effect and not the cause.  AB00020

Among the proofs and arguments for the existence of God is the fact that man has not created himself, but rather that his creator and fashioner is another than he. And it is certain and indisputable that the creator of man is not like man himself, because a powerless being cannot create another being, and an active creator must possess all perfections to produce his handiwork.   AB00815

Were this mover not to exist, these interactions would not be realized. Thus it becomes evident that all these interactions depend upon an all-encompassing force through which these interactions are systematically produced. If the human soul and mind were not the axis and mover of the organs and parts, there would be absolutely no order in the interaction between human organs and parts.  ABU1362

If thou sailest upon the sea of names, know that all are known through God, or are attributed to His servants. Everything thou seest hath been created by His Will. How then can it serve as proof of His unity? His existence itself is proof of His oneness, and the existence of all things is proof that they are His creation. This is the proof of wisdom for those who sail upon the sea of truth.  BB00015

When we carefully investigate the kingdoms of existence and observe the phenomena of the universe about us, we discover the absolute order and perfection of creation. The dull minerals in their affinities, plants and vegetables with power of growth, animals in their instinct, man with conscious intellect and the heavenly orbs moving obediently through limitless space are all found subject to universal law, most complete, most perfect.  ABU0122

We confess that we do not know the essence of electricity and ether, but we know it by its effect of light, heat, magnetism and attraction. These evident and undeniable effects lead us to the conclusion that there must be a cause of the function and nature of which we are entirely unaware. Do we not see the signs and traces of God - the Unknowable, primal Cause - scattered all about us? Are not these "effects" sufficient reason to demonstrate to us that there is behind all of them, a Creative Cause?   ABU2507

Some believe that the realization of things, the composition of beings, and their analysis arise from interaction, and therefore have no need of a true Director. In truth, there exists a wondrous connection between the component parts of creation, and from this connection interaction is clear and manifest. Were this mover not to exist, these interactions would not be realized. Thus it becomes clear that all these interactions depend upon an all-encompassing power through which these interactions systematically occur.  ABU1435

When you ask them "Who is the Creator of the world? What is your opinion in the matter?" They will answer: "It is quite plain and evident that there are various kinds of elements, and by being composed a being is formed." We must say, "You are right, it seems to be so, but we have heard something else, some philosophers and learned men told us as follows: 'When we look carefully at objects and things we can comprehend and understand that by the composition of some elements something is formed; this is quite evident. But there are three kinds of composition. One is accomplished by force; for instance, fire attracts water, this is made through force - that is, the elements attract each other; when they come together they form an object. This kind of composition is called innate or natural attraction, made by force. The second kind of composition is said to be done by chance, for instance, it rained by chance, the sun cast its rays by chance; therefore, vegetables grow. The third is a composition made by will, by aim;--for instance,--A doctor gives a medicine which is composed of various elements, compounded by his will; knowing the ingredients of the drugs he compounds them by will.' We must look and see very carefully that we understand whether the things or objects of the world are formed through the power of attraction made by force; if it is so, then there should not be the decomposition, because the elements attracted by the other must remain together everlastingly; corruption must not take place; some realize that there are both composition and decomposition.  As to the second, which was by chance,--this is also not perfect, but completely invalid. How can there be movement without a mover? As to the third, that all objects in the world are made or formed by will. Then, there should be a Creator for everything, for instance, to place the eye in its own place, the ear in its proper place, etc. Such a power creates, gives life to man, and works through His will. We call this will, GOD! All the prophets believed in such a Great Being."  ABU0965

I said: "Very well. There is no doubt that the infinite phenomena are the result of the composition of the different elements. Every composition is the aggregation of various individual molecules, but let us ascertain to which kind of composition it belongs." He said, "There is only one kind of composition." I answered: "That is where you are mistaken. There are three kinds of composition: the accidental (or involuntary), the essential (sometimes called compulsory), and the voluntary. Every composition of atoms is in these three divisions."  ABU0097

Thus the contingent world is the source of deficiencies and God is the source of perfection. The very deficiencies of the contingent world testify to God's perfections. For example, when you consider man, you observe that he is weak, and this very weakness of the creature betokens the power of One Who is Eternal and Almighty, for were it not for power, weakness could not be imagined. Thus the weakness of the creature is evidence of the power of God--without power there could be no weakness.   AB00815
