
The purely material man cannot comprehend the spiritual idea of life. And so he thinks that his lack of knowledge is proof of non-existence. Matter cannot present various sides at the same time. Two geometric forms cannot be in the same object. A spherical object cannot be in a plane; a triangle cannot be a square.  ABU1868

Did God's Holy Ones find such comfort and ease in this mortal realm that They would continuously seek to return and repeat this life? Is not one instance of these sorrows, afflictions, calamities, blows and difficulties sufficient, that They should wish for repeated existence in this world? This cup was not so sweet as to desire its repeated draughts.   AB00282

This is one of the proofs of the immortality of the soul, for death consists of the change and dispersion of the members and elements of the body. As a bodily change does not bring about change in the soul, it is evident that the soul is unchanging and imperishable.   ABU2979

But now we come to the proofs. Those who do not believe in immortality have some proofs. For example, one is this. They divide existence into two kinds; imaginary existence and that of the senses. They say that since the immortal kingdom is not of the senses there can be no such kingdom. This is their proof! By this proof they deny!  But Jesus and Baha'u'llah answer the people who do not believe thus: Every rational man can see that the world has come out of non-existence into existence. Life progresses from the mineral kingdom to the vegetable kingdom, from the vegetable to the animal, and from thence to the human kingdom. Were there no spiritual kingdom, life would be useless. ABU0495

The spirit of man, however, can manifest itself in all forms at the same time... All these can be conceived at the same moment in the human spirit, and not one of them needs to be destroyed or broken in order that the spirit of man may be transferred to another. There is no annihilation, no destruction; therefore, the human spirit is immortal because it is not transferred from one body into another body.  ABU0241

Consider man while in the state of sleep; it is evident that all his parts and members are at a standstill, are functionless. His eye does not see, his ear does not hear, his feet and hands are motionless; but, nevertheless, he does see in the world of dreams, he does hear, he speaks, he walks, he may even fly in an airplane. Therefore, it becomes evident that though the body be dead, yet the spirit is alive and permanent.  ABU0096

A rational proof for this is that man has two realities: a bodily reality and a spiritual reality. The bodily reality is fleeting, but the spiritual reality is immortal. This is because extinction consists of transition from one form to another... In the world of corporeal forms, no being can possess two forms at the same time... The soul of man, however, possesses all forms at the same time... Therefore, the soul is eternal, not subject to transition, and always possesses all forms.   ABU0078

The first proof: It is evident that all material things are composed of the elements, and from every composition one being has come into existence...The second proof: Every being in the universe requires a unique form to be realized...The third proof: Every being has a beginning to its existence, but later its traces are obliterated...The fourth proof: What is death? Death is the cessation of the corporeal faculties of man...The fifth proof: The body of man may become weak, it may become ill or incapacitated...The sixth proof: When you contemplate or consider any matter, you often consult with yourself about it.  ABU0205

In wakefulness the eye of man sees at most as far as one hour's distance, for the influence of the spirit through the intermediary of the body extends only so far; but with the mind's eye it sees America, understands that land, is apprised of its condition, and arranges affairs accordingly. Now, if the spirit were identical with the body, its power of vision would extend no further. It is therefore evident that the spirit is different from the body, that the bird is different from the cage, and that the power and influence of the spirit is more pronounced without the intermediary of the body. Now, if the instrument becomes idle, its wielder continues to exist. For example, if the pen is abandoned or broken, the writer remains alive and well; if a house is destroyed, its owner lives on. This is one of the rational arguments proving the immortality of the soul. Another proof is this: Man's body may become weak or robust, sick or healthy, tired or rested; it may suffer the loss of a hand or leg; it may decline in material powers; it may become blind, deaf, dumb or paralyzed-in short, it may become gravely impaired. And yet despite this the spirit maintains its original condition and spiritual perceptions, suffering no impairment or disruption. But when the body is afflicted with a major illness or calamity it is deprived of the grace of the spirit, like a mirror that is broken or covered with dust and that can no longer reflect the light of the sun or manifest its bounty.   AB00228

"Although the body is transferred from one state to another, the soul is not changed or altered thereby. The body of man, for instance, is young and becomes old; the soul, however, remains in the same state...In the dream state the body of man is inactive and its faculties are idle. The eyes do not see, the ears do not hear, and the body does not move. Notwithstanding this, the soul sees, hears, moves, and discovers answers to various questions...The body is situated here, while the soul is present in the East or the West...An effect without a cause is impossible...Every created thing possesses one form: Either it is triangular, or square, or shaped like a pentagon, and so forth...When man considers the world of creation, he will see that there are two kinds of things: those that are perceptible to the senses and those that are perceptible to the intellect."  ABU0184

If thou wouldst reflect upon the deeds of the Prophets, thou wouldst bear witness with absolute certitude that there are worlds besides this world. The philosophers of the earth, as revealed in the Tablet of Wisdom by the Supreme Pen, have mostly acknowledged and accepted what was revealed in the divine Books. However, the materialists who believe in nature have written concerning the Prophets that they were wise men who, for the education of the people, made mention of heaven and hell, reward and punishment. Now consider: all people in every age have regarded the Prophets as superior to all others. Some have called these pure Essences wise men, while others have recognized them as being from God. Now if such souls had considered divine worlds to be limited to this earthly life, they would never have surrendered themselves to their enemies nor endured unprecedented trials and tribulations.   BH00433

An evidence of the immortality of the human spirit is the fact that it is not affected by changes in the body. The body is subject to various conditions. At one time it may be healthy; at another time it may be susceptible to some pathology. At one time it may be weak or ill; at another time it may be well and strong; or a member may become lost. However, the reality within the body -- the human spirit or mind -- is the same. If the body should become lean the spirit would not become lean. If the body should become corpulent the spirit would not become corpulent. If the body should be dismembered the spirit would not be affected. In brief, the spirit is independent of the body, and the disintegrations that take place in the body do not affect the soul, for the human reality or spirit is ever the same. Among other evidences of the immortality of the spirit is the fact that there can be no effect without a cause. It is impossible for a non-existent cause to produce existent effects.  ABU0045

A rational proof for the immortality of the spirit is this, that no effect can be produced by a non-existent thing; that is, it is impossible that any effect should appear from absolute nothingness. For the effect of a thing is secondary to its existence, and that which is secondary is conditioned upon the existence of that which is primary. So from a non-existent sun no rays can shine; from a non-existent sea no waves can surge; from a non-existent cloud no rain can fall; from a non-existent tree no fruit can appear; from a non-existent man nothing can be manifested or produced. Therefore, so long as the effects of existence are visible, they prove that the author of that effect exists. Consider how to this day the sovereignty of Christ has endured. How can a sovereignty of such greatness be manifested by a non-existent sovereign? How can such waves surge from a non-existent sea? How can such heavenly breezes waft from a non-existent garden? Consider that as soon as the constituent parts of anything, be it mineral, plant or animal, are disintegrated and its elemental composition is dissolved, all effect, influence and trace thereof vanish. But it is not so with the human spirit and reality, which continues to manifest its signs, to exert its influence, and to sustain its effects even after the dissociation and decomposition of the various parts and members of the body.   AB00268

Having established the existence of the human spirit, we must now establish its immortality. In the heavenly books mention is made of the immortality of the spirit, which is the very foundation of the divine religions. For rewards and punishments are said to be of two kinds, one being existential rewards and punishments and the other, ultimate rewards and punishments.   AB00268

Life is the expression of composition; and death, the expression of decomposition... As the spirit of man is not composed of material elements, it is not subject to decomposition and, therefore, has no death. It is self-evident that the human spirit is simple, single and not composed in order that it may come to immortality, and it is a philosophical axiom that the individual or indivisible atom is indestructible.  ABU0241


"First we must establish that extinction does not pertain to existence, for extinction consists of the dispersion of component parts...Know, therefore, that death does not pertain to existence. At most, there is transition from one state to another, for the soul of man is not composed; it is not a formation of elements subject to dissolution. If it was composed, we would have to consider it mortal. But since it is not composed, it is therefore incapable of being annihilated."  ABU0184

When you wish to reflect upon or consider a matter, you consult something within you. You say, shall I do it, or shall I not do it? Is it better to make this journey or abandon it? Whom do you consult? Who is within you deciding this question? Surely there is a distinct power, an intelligent ego. Were it not distinct from your ego, you would not be consulting it. It is greater than the faculty of thought. It is your spirit which teaches you, which advises and decides upon matters.  ABU0096

For example, the wick in a lamp may burn out or become low, but the oil is still there and the light in that sense is not discontinued; or the chimney may become blackened with smoke, but the light shines within as brightly, though it be not as plainly discernible.   ABU3189

To consider that after the death of the body the spirit perishes, is like imagining that a bird in a cage will be destroyed if the cage is broken-though the bird has nothing to fear from the destruction of the cage. Our body is like the cage, and the spirit is like the bird.  AB03579

The spirit and mind of man traverses all countries and regions and even the limitless expanse of the heavens; it encompasses all existence and makes discoveries in the spheres above and in the infinite reaches of the universe. This is because the spirit has no place: it is a placeless reality, and for the spirit earth and heaven are the same, since it makes discoveries in both.  AB00336

All things of this world fall into two groups, either they belong to the things that can be measured, weighed, proven, or else to the ones that cannot be measured, weighed, proven. You want an example, my daughter? Look, here in London I can always prove to you, count to you, that twice two is four. But how can I prove to you that you are or have an immaterial soul? Can I measure, weigh, touch, prove your soul? The materialist or atheist, however, accepts only the first category of things as real or factual, as "existing", and nothing else; how illogically, inconsequentially, how onesidedly and blindly he judges. As soon as the atheist comes to you, as the great tempter and unifier and asks: "Prove, show to me your soul", then say to him boldly: "Prove to me that I have no soul, show me what it is that thinks in me, for the brain is but the implement, where is the life of the implement, where does the implement come from, who creates it?" - He will tell you: "As an honest person, as an upright seeker, I have to reply: "Nobody knows this, nobody can know this!" But you, the idealist, you should not assert either, as an honest human being, an upright seeker: "The self is or has an immaterial soul" - because you cannot prove or show it either, and therefore both the atheist and the idealist must say: "We know nothing of the soul, we know no soul!" This is the language of the materialists and atheists! But then, my daughter, you should not fall silent in embarrasment, but you should tell him: "O atheist, there is no America, I have not seen America, I have not even glanced at America, I cannot believe the travellers and books, I want, here from London, in London itself, to see, touch, count, measure, weigh America, other proofs I will not accept as valid!" How will the atheist reply to you? He will say: "Come with me to America; here in London I cannot show you America concretely, visibly, but there, on the spot, you will have to let yourself be convinced and you will be convinced of the land of America" - and you will reply: "Good, O atheist, but what is fair to one is fair to the other - my thinking self is my soul, and the home of my soul is there with the Origin and Source of all souls - with God. Let us die, and then I will convince you of the soul, of the higher home, of God. The world beyond is the home of my soul, it is my America, in which you do not believe and of which you refuse to know, because I cannot show it to you here in this world. Let us travel across the sea of death to the world beyond, and I will show it to you, just as you want to show me, after a journey across the ocean, the reality of your America beyond. You, materialist, possess this world, show it, prove, count, measure, weigh everything; but I, i.e. my soul, also possess the beyond on top of everything, and the day will come, sooner or later, the eternal or the Judgment Day, when I shall show, prove and demonstrate everything to you, to your soul. Now we live in belief, in surmise, in feeling, in delicate, fragile proof by analogy (comparison), in the reflection and refulgence of the Eternal, the Immeasurable, the Incorporeal. -O atheist, I cannot reach down for you, for example, the moon from the firmament, to touch and see close to, but approach the water and at least look at its reflection, the image of the heavenly body. Much can now only be 'seen from afar', imagined from afar, but the day of seeing it close - of touching and possessing, will come, and then we shall speak further."  ABU0610

