
Verily I am the Proof of God and His Light   BB00649

After Muhammad, the Messenger of God, was taken, there was no proof with you except the Furqan (Qur'an). Therefore, look within it - did God ever argue without a verse?  BB00085

That Ancient Being hath revealed the treatise of proof, known as the Seven Proofs, and hath concluded every argument and evidence with the divine verses. From the Pen of Holiness hath flowed the declaration that, in this Day, these verses—sent down from the clouds of majesty—are the conclusive proof unto the East and unto the West of the world, and that no testimony above them hath ever been, nor ever shall be, vouchsafed. Even as the Crown Prince summoned that Essence of Eternality to his court and demanded proof, that Ancient Beauty declared that the verses were the testimony. Yet in the end they accepted it not, and all pronounced sentence of death upon that Quintessence of pre-existence, save a few who became assured through the divine verses and turned from the west of unbelief and error to the east of faith and recognition.  BH00811

By God! One man's heart was in a state of amazement and wonder, saying What manner of gait is this that, I swear by God, it melts my heart! And others each spoke in similar fashion. O people of the Bayan! When desert Arabs, who had no knowledge whatsoever of this Cause, bore witness through their innate nature to the grandeur and glory of the Beauty of the All-Glorious, do ye show yourselves more veiled than such servants and utter words that are unworthy? Woe unto you, O company of the veiled ones! In truth, each of these outward conditions was a supreme proof for those who perceive and understand. And since most are veiled from the Truth itself and cannot know the Truth by itself and for itself, He hath made the revealed verses a proof and established them as the standard of truth.  BH11688

The essence of this matter is that should anyone argue by means other than the verses of God regarding the truth of the Point of the Bayan, he remains veiled from the greatest proof and most exalted path. Although in every Revelation all attributes of the Tree of Truth distinguish it from any likeness, peer, similitude, equal or comparable thing, yet since most eyes of men's hearts fail to perceive its loftiness, and since the verses are such that all who wish may understand them, therefore He has established the verses alone as proof.  BH11688


Furthermore, concerning that which hath been sent down from the heaven of bounty and the clouds of mercy in the Bayan, no universal proof or conclusive evidence hath been ordained save the revelation of verses. This hath ever been and shall ever remain God's proof unto the peoples of the earth. Should any matter appear from the Source of Grace and Glory other than this, it is purely through God's favor; otherwise, the supreme proof is that which He Himself hath ordained - and who is more truthful in speech than God?   BH00394

As to the proofs and arguments of the Beauty of ABHA, these are manifest like the sun.  AB05724

"If ye deny these verses, by what proof did ye believe in God's Messengers of old?"   BH03591

This is the Day wherein verses have been sent down and clear proofs have been made manifest   BH07417

By God! He hath come with God's proofs and His evidence, but most of the people are heedless.   BH08908

He hath come with verses that no fair-minded person nor any just and discerning one can deny.   BH05470

The proof hath appeared and the sun of evidence hath shone forth from the horizon of possibility   BH08091

"Why do you think Mohamad was a prophet?" they asked. He gave them logical and satisfying reasons.  ABU2893

My blessed seal is My proof, My Self My evidence, My Cause My testimony, and My resplendent beauty.   BH10836

Know ye that this Tablet shall itself be God's proof against you and His evidence unto all creation   BH02389

Verily, He is the Youth of God amongst you, Who hath come unto you with the truth, with mighty signs.   BH04852

The sure proof that they are the Manifestations of God is in the education and progress of the people.  AB01160

The proof has been perfected, the favor completed, and the evidence has encompassed all in the worlds.   BH09367

All things have testified to the Revelation of God and His sovereignty, yet the people understand not.   BH04238

He needeth not, in establishing His Cause, the books of the past nor what appeared in former ages.   BH02380

His proof in this day is pellucid and clear. Therefore, all these books are naught but senseless jabber.  AB02091

Glorified is He Who hath sent down the verses and made manifest the clear evidences for people who know.   BH09838

"What proof could be greater than this, and what evidence more exalted than that which hath been mentioned?"   BH03704

Verily We have shown you God's signs in the horizons and in yourselves that ye may testify that He is the Truth  BB00002

Though the Cause is mighty indeed, yet its proof and testimony are seen to be clearer than the light of the sun.   BH07384

Verily He hath appeared with the truth with such sovereignty as no hosts of the heavens and earth can withstand.   BH05851

Whoso denieth Him hath denied the Messengers of God in the past, disputed His signs, and disbelieved in His proof   BH08872

He hath sent Him with a proof that confoundeth the minds of the wise and the hearts of them that are near unto God.  BH06440

recite the verses and set forth proofs and evidences for the appearance of the Kingdom of God in this great century  AB07773

"We will show them Our signs in the horizons and in themselves until it becomes clear to them that it is the truth"  AB05536

He hath come with the truth, with signs from His presence, that He might guide you to His resplendent horizon.   BH09701

The proofs have circled round My proof, and the evidences round My transcendent and mighty and impregnable Evidence.   BH03539

Be fair, O people of the earth, concerning this Cause at whose appearance bodies and souls were made to tremble.   BH04808

By God! The All-Informed hath proclaimed My Manifestation, and the All-Knowing crieth out before My luminous countenance.   BH08941

He around Whom circle the proofs and evidences hath come, as testified by the Tongue of Grandeur in the Most Great Prison   BH05290

By God! Verily the proof circleth round about Him and the evidence standeth before His face, if ye be of them that witness.   BH04106

O people! By what proof have ye denied this Beauty Who hath dawned from the horizon of holiness with sovereignty and power?   BH01677

The Kingdom belongeth to Him Who hath appeared with the truth with such conclusive proof as hath caused all necks to bow down   BH10752

O people! The servant hath come unto you with clear signs and calleth you unto God Who created you and created all things   BH05917

I do not attempt to prove the validity of Moses by pointing to his turning the rod into a serpent; instead I give evident proofs.  ABU0089

Glorified is He Who hath come with the Truth with such a proof as hath rendered powerless all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH08812

Thou hast made the proofs for that evidence to be Thy love for it, and the signs for those clear tokens to be Thy mention therein   BB00065

If ye desire verses, they have indeed filled the horizons, and if ye seek clear proofs, read ye what hath been sent down from My Pen  BH03893

"The greatest sign that a man is a Prophet is his ability to unite hearts - for no one can do this except he be on the part of God."  ABU0709

If ye deny Him Who hath come unto you, by what proof can ye establish that which ye claim? Bring it forth, and be not of the unjust.   BH01793

Indeed, through the power of proof you silence the objectors until the spiritual realities and meanings become manifest and evident.   AB12098

O people! The proof hath come from your Lord, the All-Merciful. In what utterance, then, did ye believe at the Dayspring of utterance?  BH11802

When it is said unto them: "Have ye not witnessed God's majesty and power?" they say: "We saw and we disobeyed." Nay, they are unaware.   BH01822

If ye deny these verses, then by what proof have ye believed in all the Prophets and Messengers? Bring it forth if ye be truthful!   BH01531

O people, behold ye the Balance and Testimony of God, not what ye possess. Thus have ye been commanded in the Tablet, did ye but know.   BH03519

Verily He hath come with the standards of verses and the hosts of meanings. If ye deny Him, by what proof can ye establish what ye possess?   BH03103

We have rent asunder the veils and sent down the verses, that perchance the people may attain certitude through the meeting with their Lord.   BH07185

Glorified be He Who hath sent down the verses in truth and made them a proof from His presence unto all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH05757

O people of the Bayan! This, verily, is the Proof that hath shone forth from the horizon of the All-Merciful with power and sovereignty   BH02280

By the life of God! Verily the ocean surgeth by itself and the sun shineth by its own light. He hath no need of aught else to prove His Cause   BH07360

Look ye at the proofs of the Prophets of old - have ye heard of an Appearance greater than this Appearance which hath appeared with the truth?  BH01956

and impart convincing proofs in establishing the manifestation of the Sun of Reality which hath shone forth upon all the earth and the heavens  AB09952

Whosoever attains unto Him has attained unto all good, and he who turns away is not of Me and has been heedless of Me and has denied My verses   BH09888

you have extracted from ancient books decisive proofs, clear evidences and manifest arguments establishing the truth of the Great Announcement.  AB02348

Is there any doubt concerning Him? Nay, by His own Self, the Truth! Is there any uncertainty about Him? Nay, by His own Self, the All-Bountiful!   BH08926

O people! If ye desire verses, they have been sent down in truth, and if ye seek clear proofs, they have appeared from this visible horizon   BH05310

Here then is a decisive proof of truth, made easy for the Remembrance...We have tried you with Our she-camel, a clear sign for those who reflect.   BB00535

He is the Manifestation of God; naught shall be seen in Him save God. And verily the Letters of Truth are eighteen in number, each one a Gate.  BB00004

What proof could be greater than this, and what evidence mightier than this station? Observe how this blessed word adorns the opening of the prayer.  BH02897

Investigate the reality and in whomsoever these conditions are fulfilled, know ye of a certainty that he is the Great Master. [Lists nine conditions]  ABU1402

O Thou Revealer of verses and Manifestor of clear proofs! I testify that through Thy manifestation the mysteries were revealed and the signs appeared.  BH03907

O people! If you desire verses, they have indeed encompassed all directions, and if you desire proofs, they have verily appeared through the truth  BH04728

Power hath been manifested, sovereignty hath encompassed all, and the signs have filled the horizons. None denieth them save he who is deprived of truth.  BH03529

Fear ye God, and reject not Him Who hath come to you with the proofs of the Prophets and with that whereof the eye of creation hath seen no likeness.   BH04104

If it is seen to be greater and more perfect than that, then it is crystal clear that the deniers and all that they possess have been and will be in the fire.  BH04610

Should all the people gather together to produce the like of that Book, they would never be able to do so, even were they the most learned ones upon the earth.   BB00273

If thou seekest proof, praise be to God that the horizons are illumined by the lamp of divine evidence. All the conditions of the Blessed Beauty were miracles.   AB05119

Reflect within thyself for less than a moment - hast thou heard of a Revelation more mighty than this, or of verses greater than what hath been sent down in truth?  BH00343

Yet these unjust people, despite these manifest proofs, sacred conditions, firm manifestations, clear signs, and all-encompassing evidences, are still intoxicated.   BH00582

If the proof be verses, verily they have filled the world, and if it be evidences, verily they have shone forth from the horizon of the Will of the Lord of Eternity.   BH07372

Every proof hath bowed down before the proof of God, the Lord of all worlds, and every evidence hath submitted to the evidence of God, the Lord of the mighty throne.   BH05873

If ye possess that which can equal these fragrances sent forth by the Mighty, the Wondrous One, or a proof greater than what We have, then bring it forth and tarry not   BH01478

The Cause of the Blessed Beauty in every way is clearly proved. The proof is not of one kind only, but of all kinds. One is at a loss to know which proof to begin with.  ABU1274

O people! This is in truth Husayn Who hath come to you with verses, a single letter of which all who are in the heavens and on earth cannot equal, did ye but know.   BH05833

By My life! Every proof hath been abashed before My proof, and every evidence hath bowed down before Mine evidence, and all things lament for My sake, could ye but hear.  BH00875

"Verily, He is the One Who hath appeared, and He is the One Who hath come with the truth, with a sovereignty that hath subdued all who are in the heavens and on earth."   BH08350

Bear thou witness unto that which God did testify before the creation of the heavens and the earth: that there is none other God but I, the [Protector], the Self-Subsisting.   BH06933

Is there any doubt about God, or about His power which hath encompassed all created things, or about His signs, one letter of which all that can be counted cannot equal?  BH03549

Even this much that has been mentioned was solely to establish proof, so that they might realize at least this much - that this earth will never be devoid of a manifest proof   BH11547

O people, have mercy upon yourselves and oppose not Him Who hath come to you with the proof of the Spirit, the testimony of Muhammad and the evidences of the Messengers.   BH05831

Know ye, O servants of God, that your Lord, God, the Truth, hath perfected His proof against you according as ye were, in truth, upon the truth, watchful of God and His signs.  BB00002

When the True One is made manifest, His signs and verses are His evidence, His presence is His proof... It needs no herald; it is its own proof. They see the light and they rise.  ABU1910

My proof is My Self, and My evidence that which hath appeared from Me and that which hath been sent down from My dominion - this is another sign, and verily it is the proof.   BH04204

The Message is the real miracle. The phenomenal miracles are unimportant, and prove nothing to anybody but the witnesses thereof, and even they will very often explain them away!   ABU3228

He needeth not, for the proof of His Cause, any mention from among all mentions, nor any tablet from among all tablets. He Who possesseth the Hidden Book doth testify to this   BH05871

Glorified be He Who hath appeared with the truth with all the signs and hath spoken between earth and heaven with a call whereby the hearts of the Concourse on High were attracted   BH02004

Had humanity possessed true vision, the outward acts of the Truth amidst His enemies would have sufficed them all, and they would have beheld the Standard of Truth encompassing all   BH03943

Yea, by My life! This is He Who was promised in the Scriptures and Tablets. If this be Baha's crime, what sayest thou of Him Who declared "Verily I am God from time immemorial"?  BH03072

O people, if ye be fair in this Cause - should ye deny the Manifestation of God, His sovereignty, His proof and His evidence - by what proof do ye uphold that which ye possess?   BH02435

Weigh what thou hast against what hath appeared from Him, that thou mayest be assured that His proof is sovereign over all proofs and His evidence shineth from the horizon of grace.   BH01390

The passage argues that Muhammad's admission of weakness and ignorance while in a position of power proves his truthfulness and greatness, since an imposter would not make such admissions.  ABU2164

How, then, can one claim that one's powers of perception encompass the divine realms, or rely on that deficient perception as the standard by which to prove [the existence of such realms]?  ABU3717

This is the greatest proof from God unto all who dwell in the kingdom of the heavens and of the earth and all that lies between them, and ye likewise write and relate and believe this.  BB00004

present as much as you can decisive proofs and clear rational and traditional evidence to prove the Divinity and Oneness of God and the truth of the Holy Manifestations of the All-Glorious   AB05282

human valor lies in the power of proof, not spears and arrows. If ferocity and predation were proof of truth, wolves would be (God forbid) the leaders of the righteous and guides to truth.   AB02425

The signs have encompassed the world and the evidences are more manifest than the sun - it is not known by what proof they believed in the Point of the Bayan and to what testimony they cling.  BH08171

There hath appeared the proof of 'Ali, then the evidence of Muhammad, then the testimony of the Spirit, then that which the Interlocutor brought from the Sinai of God through this Announcement   BH02785

These verses are the greatest proof from God, and were God to establish them for whomsoever He willeth, He would transform them howsoever He desireth. Verily He hath power over all things.  BB00004

And since My previous Manifestation designated verses as the proof of this most mighty, most holy and most glorious Manifestation, We have therefore caused verses to be sent down from the heaven of Will and have established them as proof for all who are in the heavens and on earth. Until this Manifestation, verses alone have been proof for all, for We had sent down this decree in all previous Books. Although in this Manifestation all signs of power, manifest proofs, wondrous verses, glorious manifestations and divine attributes have appeared - and all this as a grace from Us to all created things - yet henceforth the matter resteth in God's hands, that He may designate what shall be proof for future Manifestations. We shall soon send down His decree in the Tablets, for verily We have ever been the Ruler over all things. All matters are within Our mighty grasp; We do what We will and decree what We please. For in this Manifestation God, exalted be His mention, hath willed that many of the sincere seekers should speak in verses. Therefore We shall, by His command and His will, ordain what shall constitute proof of the next Manifestation, lest anyone who produceth words should exalt himself over God, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Almighty  BH11742

O people! Be fair before God - if ye deny this Cause which hath dawned from the Supreme Horizon, by what proof can ye establish that which ye possess? Be fair, and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH01506

He hath sent down with them a proof that confoundeth the learned, and bestowed upon them tablets of spiritual chrysolite wherein He fixed the laws of immortality for a people endued with certitude.  BH10335

O people! By what proof did ye believe in God's Messengers, and by what evidence do ye deny their Sender? What is the difference between you and the people of the Furqan? Explain if ye be truthful.  BH11255

We have not entered schools, yet We have sent down from the heaven of knowledge and wisdom that before which all the learning of the earth hath bowed down, as every discerning one doth testify.  BH03188

The proof hath appeared and the stream of paradise hath flowed, yet most of the people remain heedless... the Sun of proof hath risen from the horizon of the utterance of your Lord, the All-Knowing.   BH08086

The Sacred Scriptures testify that there is none other God but Me, the Almighty, the Powerful, and the Holy Books proclaim this is He Who is mentioned in the Tablets and inscribed in a preserved Book.   BH08063

the rending of the veils of names and their splitting appears greater to the eye than the splitting of the moon. I swear by the lights of the Face, in this Revelation the splitting of the sun is visible   BH10562

And unto God belongeth the proofs of the heavens and of the earth and of whatsoever lieth between them, and God was the Lord of decisive proofs in the Mother Book, and God was the guardian of all things.  BB00004

O people! If ye possess a proof greater than this, bring it forth and be not of those who tarry. O people! Be fair and deny not this Dayspring which hath shone forth upon the horizons with the lights of God   BH00853

Should He utter but one word, verily it would be more sublime than all that hath been uttered by the tongues from time immemorial. He seeth and witnesseth, and He, verily, is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing.   BH07725

He has come with what exists in the world of God's Books and His proofs, if you be fair and not among the oppressors. He has appeared in truth in such wise that none denies it save every aggressive sinner.   BH04160

Wait ye then for the days of God and reflect, for the Cause of God shall come upon you suddenly when ye know not, even as was ordained five years ago, and none remember the Cause of God save His sincere servants.  BB00004

If they look to knowledge, its sun is manifest and evident from the horizons of divine Tablets in such wise that none hath any way to deny or object. And if they look to verses, these have encompassed East and West.   BH02770

The signs of divine power are evident in all things like the sun...if there were even a particle of sight, one would witness the greatest signs and observe all things as clear proof of the existence of the Glorious Lord  AB04264

He hath manifested His beauty with such a proof as hath rendered all created things powerless, and through it His evidence hath been perfected, His proof completed, and His testimony hath shone forth unto all in the kingdom  BH04385

God hath two proofs whereby He will prove against you on the Day of Resurrection. Will ye not then remember? The Greater Proof consisteth of these verses, and the Most Great Proof consisteth of the Letters of Truth with Him.  BB00004

By the Sun of the horizon of sanctity! If thou wouldst reflect upon the circumstances of the Sacrifice mentioned in thy letter concerning the people of Za, this same would constitute the greatest proof for thee and all peoples.  BH05856

The Manifestations of God have ever appeared with conclusive proofs and clear and evident testimonies, and yet in every Dispensation there hath been visited upon these sacred Temples that which the pen is powerless to recount.   BH00524

You have made the acquisition of wealth your criterion for the truth of God's Cause...this cannot be the measure of the truth of God's Cause. If this were the criterion and it were fulfilled, no denier would remain in the world  AB00896

Beholdest thou not how the blind hath perceived, and the deaf hath hearkened, and the dumb hath spoken, and the dead hath been quickened, and the testimony hath been fulfilled? Could there after this be any hesitation or doubt?   AB05969

O people! Be fair unto yourselves for less than a moment and ponder thereon, O ye possessors of thought! If ye believe not in Him Who hath come with clear signs, then to what face will ye turn today, O possessors of justice?  BH00783

Today the verses have encompassed the world and the evidences have embraced all things. The ocean of utterance surgeth in the midmost heart of contingent being, and the Sun of Revelation casteth its effulgences from all horizons.   BH01179

Let not the words of those who have disbelieved in God grieve thee. Glorify the praise of thy Lord and say: Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who hast made Thyself known unto me and hast sent unto me that whereby the dead are quickened.   BH06496

Consider what hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen. In this Revelation there hath appeared what hath never appeared from the beginning of creation until now. Yet opposition preventeth both the outward and inward eye from beholding.  BH00095

Praise be to God Who sent down the Proof to His servants, made manifest to them the Way, and caused them to know the Dawning-Place of His Cause, the Rising-Point of His verses, the Source of His laws, and the Recipient of His knowledge   BH04947

If ye deny these verses, by what proof did ye establish your faith in Muhammad, the Apostle of God, aforetime, if ye be of the just? Is one who standeth upon clear proof from God like unto one who hath turned away and disbelieved?   BH01339

And when God knew that some people would claim the station of Lordship in the temple of servitude without deserving it, God created for its people signs that would indicate its true possessor and distinguish between truth and falsehood.  BB00065

After establishing this premise, there is no doubt that if someone today makes a claim that does not cause the denial of any fundamental religious principle, and presents sufficient proof, it is incumbent upon all to accept his decree.   BB00119

O people of the earth, come forth and then judge fairly concerning the Cause of God, the Lord of the worlds. If you deny this Most Great Revelation, by what proof do you uphold that which you follow? Produce it, if you be truthful.   BH08330

you have grasped the proofs and evidences, and have uncovered the mysteries of the decisive proof, and have established the religion of God through brilliant proofs, and have made manifest the truth of the Prophets through clear evidences  AB06268

If ye seek God's power, by God it hath appeared in truth. If ye seek the attributes of the All-Merciful, they have emerged with justice. If ye desire God's signs, they have been sent down in truth in such wise as to fill the East and West   BH01834

Is there any doubt concerning Him, or concerning the verses revealed unto Him, or concerning His power which hath encompassed all worlds? Say: This is from the appearance of that which the eye of creation hath never witnessed its like   BH03031

Moreover, the proof of revealed verses doth, alone and of itself, conclusively demonstrate the utter impotence of all created things on earth, for this is a proof which hath proceeded from God and shall endure until the Day of Resurrection.  BB00001

Behold what a power it was that enabled an emigrant to establish such a family, to found such a nation and to promulgate such teachings. Now, can anyone claim that all this was purely fortuitous? We must be fair: was this Man an Educator or not?   AB00556

The essential requirement for whoso advanceth a claim is to support his assertions with clear proofs and testimonies. Beyond this, the rejection of the people, whether learned or ignorant, hath never been, nor shall it ever be, of any consequence.  BH00038

Every proof and prophecy, every manner of evidence, whether based on reason or on the text of the scriptures and traditions, are to be regarded as centered in the persons of Baha'u'llah and the Bab. In them is to be found their complete fulfillment.  AB11448

"because the greatest and strongest proof for showing the abundance of the Spirit to the bodies is the very appearance of its power and influence in those bodies. Think deeply of this in order to know the reality of my explanation and demonstration."  AB02799

They are all invested with the power to manifest God's verses, which are the signs of His sovereignty. By the revelation of these verses can their truth be proven, and by the effulgence of these verses can the brightness of His light be made manifest.  BH00002

O Muhammad! Reflect a while upon the proofs of the Prophets and consider the ways of the Messengers. If thou wert asked by what proof thou didst believe in the former one, and by what proof thou didst turn away from the latter one, what wouldst thou say?   BH01682

O people, can anyone stand with Him in the arena of proof and evidence? Nay, by His Self, the All-Merciful! Thus have We sent down the verses and manifested the proofs, that thou mightest arise to aid the Cause of thy Lord with power and sovereignty.  BH00518

The Greater Peter, known as Simon the Pure, was outwardly a dyer, and Noah the Pure was outwardly a carpenter. When they received divine confirmation, one saved a people from the Most Great Flood and the other illumined a world with the lights of guidance.  AB03454

O concourse! Bring forth a book like unto this Tablet, with guidance from God and glad-tidings to Our servants who have preceded you. Say: Ye shall never bring it forth; therefore believe, if ye be truthful in your adherence to God's religion aforetime.  BB00009

In these meetings the believers and maid-servants of the Merciful must proclaim the proofs and arguments and explain the signs of the appearance of the Beauty of Abha...so that those souls who are present may become informed of the Divine Evidences and Proofs.  ABU2522

Among the proofs was the fact that blessed souls who believed and sacrificed their lives were from among the most prominent and distinguished people of the nation, both clergy and others. And so forth. All conversations were presentations of proof and evidence.  ABU0080

Therefore it is through rational arguments that we must prove to rational minds the prophethood of Moses, of Christ and of the other divine Manifestations. And the proofs and arguments which we provide here are based on rational and not on traditional arguments.  AB00081

O people! If ye believed in God before, how is it that ye believe not in Him around Whom circle the angels of the highest heaven? Say: Did ye not yearn for Him in the nights and at dawn? Yet when He came unto you with clear signs, ye turned away from His beauty.  BH05540

Through Him the remembrance of God was exalted among all else, the pillars of remembrance and utterance were raised up, the sun of exposition shone forth from the horizon of the will of the All-Merciful, and the breezes of glory wafted from the right hand of certitude.   BH03368

By God! My proof is My manifestation and My standing forth amidst the concourse of Mine enemies in days when the feet of the mystics have slipped. And whoso is unable to recognize Me by My manifestation, then by My Self, then by My beauty, let him look upon My traces.  BH03352

In such circumstances, man must at all times fix his gaze upon the fundamental proof of God and that whereby all proofs have been established, lest he be veiled from the Source of Revelation and all his deeds and actions be rendered null and void while he remaineth unaware.  BH11760

We told them to have all the divines unite and request one verse, and write that if what they requested appeared at the appointed time, they should cease their persecution and oppression, and if it did not appear, they could pronounce Our Cause false. But no one came forward.  BHU0028

Indeed, today should any soul seek to know or comprehend the sublime Truth without His exalted Self, it would be as if one who is blind from birth were to seek guidance along the path, and this shall never be possible. His proof is His verses, and His authority His evidences.  BH00006

The Sun is known by its light the ideal King is known by His Beauty. These signs are the best proofs. The pathway of God is not known by such people as the Pharisees. Consider the shadow of the sun - while it is a proof of it, the Sun's beauty is not discovered by its shadow.   ABU0334

And unto each one He gave such proofs as rendered powerless all who are in the heavens and on earth. This was irrevocably decreed until the days culminated in the Spirit, Whom He made manifest in truth and sent unto His servants to guide them unto God, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH01153

If He has been an Educator, if He has really trained a nation or people, causing it to rise from the lowest depths of ignorance to the highest station of knowledge, then we are sure that He was a Prophet. This is a plain and clear method of procedure, proof that is irrefutable.  ABU0015

Even as the proof of the Interlocutor of the Mount was manifested through the rod, so hath the proof of this Wronged One shone forth through the Pen. With but a single rod did He smite the swords of the world, and with but a single Pen hath this Revelation [conquered] all peoples.  BH03589

O concourse of servants! Be fair before God - if ye deny God's proof and testimony in this Revelation, by what evidence can your own faith be established? Bring it forth, and be not of them that deny. This is a Day wherein the proof calleth aloud and the evidence crieth out.   BH01498

If ye deny this proof, then by what proof do ye reject the Faith of the Furqan? If ye say they denied God and His verses after they were sent down in truth, ye too have denied their like and their Revealer. What, then, is the difference between you, O company of the deluded?   BH01285

"Have ye seen anything greater than what hath appeared? Nay, by the Lord of destiny! But desire hath prevented you from your Lord, the Most High, the Most Glorious. By My life, ye shall not be helped! Say: Is doubt befitting after ye behold the All-Bestower riding upon the clouds?"  BH00875

Beyond this, we wish to see by what proof and evidence they believe in the Primal Point. Bring it forth if you are truthful! By the same proof by which they believe and are certain of the Primal Point, we believe and are certain of the very Manifestation with something even greater.  BH00004

The philosophers claim that they also call the people to that which is praiseworthy and exhort them to shun evil. From what Source have they learned this fact? If we investigate carefully, we will understand that they have borrowed this very idea of good and evil from the prophets.   ABU1398

O people, observe! By God, the gate of heaven has been opened and the Lord of Names has come with a Cause before which none can stand. To this testifies the preserved Book in His possession, which was inscribed by the Finger of Power and wherein every hidden matter is recorded.   BH06607

Thus did the All-Merciful come with great sovereignty and sent His angels to all regions to give the people glad tidings of this wondrous Day. In their hands were Tablets that surpass all the books of the ancients, wherein was revealed that which came upon the Prophets and Messengers.   BH04457

In a meeting, when the son of the Chief of Ulamas challenged the Bab with a theological question about Quranic verses, "The Bab simply answered:- 'In the Presence of God, there is no Past, Present, or future. There is an Eternal Now.'" The Mullah was completely defeated by this answer.  ABU1775

Through explicit and conclusive texts, certain conditions for the Promised One were revealed in the divine Tablets, which the common people interpreted literally. When they did not find these conditions fulfilled according to their own understanding, they remained veiled and deprived.   AB00052

Consider how important is the restoration of the sacred and blessed House, such that this servant pledged that if the people of Fars would restore it, the prevailing afflictions would be entirely removed, and wrote that they should make this matter the criterion of truth and falsehood.  AB03533

Thereupon from the blessed tongue flowed an extensive explanation about supernatural power and decisive proofs and evidences, such that the addressee had no response except "yes, yes" and became more humble with each moment until he was dismissed with utmost reverence and submissiveness.  ABU2043

He manifesteth that which all in the heavens and earth are powerless to produce, that it might serve as an eloquent testimony from Him unto all the worlds. This is naught but to demonstrate His bounty unto all created things and to manifest His grace unto every one, be they poor or rich.   BH01696

The Power of the Manifestations of God is beyond question inasmuch as human development invariably follows their Teachings. This development is unmistakably toward a higher existence. Every Manifestation teaches the Existence of God. As their Power is evident their Knowledge must likewise be true.  ABU0744

Every subject presented to a thoughtful audience must be supported by rational proofs and logical arguments. Proofs are of four kinds: first, through sense perception; second, through the reasoning faculty; third, from traditional or scriptural authority; fourth, through the medium of inspiration.   ABU0004

Glory be to God! Should a soul turn away from this horizon, to what horizon would he turn, and to what proof and testimony would he cling? By the life of God! The proof doth circle round, and the testimony doth prostrate itself before My countenance, yet most of the people are in evident obscurity.   BH05218

And if it be a proof unto thee, it would not serve as a proof unto those who desire to enter thy Faith, for if they behold no other evidence save that proof from God unto all the worlds, thou hast no recourse but to acknowledge that the Quran itself is God's all-sufficient proof unto all the worlds.  BB00003

If ye deny this Cause, what is your proof for believing in My previous Manifestation, Who was named 'Ali before Nabil? Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of Him by Whose command the verses were sent down in every age and through Whom God's power was manifested and His mercy encompassed the worlds.  BH01756

The Divine Manifestation is clear and evident to such a degree that were all who dwell on earth to contemplate, without prejudice, His traces and characteristics and conditions, or were they to observe them, they would be convinced that He is the Sovereign of existence in the realms of the seen and unseen.   BH06213

We have manifested the proof in such wise that none throughout all creation can deny it, except him who hath transgressed the bounds of fairness and is numbered with the idolaters. Say: The Evidence hath prostrated itself before the countenance of its Lord, and the Proof circleth round the All-Glorious   BH03922

Then with warmth and eloquence he presented to him the irrefutable proofs concerning the validity of Christ, as he did in the Synagogues of America, and how divine education is essential for the progress of any nation. The Rabbi was dumbfounded, and could not say a word to contradict the arguments of Abdul-Baha.  ABU1359

Two blood-thirsty monarchs opposed his cause. All the people of Persia resisted it. All the Ulama resisted his cause and he became victorious over all and these were defeated. He was single and alone, without help or assistance and four times he was exiled. Each exile became the means of strengthening his cause.   ABU0513

This is the Day wherein the Proof crieth out, saying: O peoples of the earth! By God, the Day hath come wherein the Proof and the Evidence circle round the throne of God, the Lord of all worlds. Beware lest ye reject the Truth and His sovereignty and His Manifestation and His uprising through that which ye possess.  BH06569

O people, judge ye fairly the Cause of this Youth, then ponder the proofs of previous Prophets and Messengers. Is any able to speak forth of his own accord that which all peoples would oppose? Nay, by my Lord, the All-Merciful, save him whom the Spirit confirmeth from the presence of the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH05349

As the miracles and the extraordinary signs of the Manifestation will not be proof for the centuries to come after this, we have not mentioned them. The miracles are only proof for those who are present, not for those who are to come, for the idolaters have also recorded miracles, on the part of their gods, in their books.   ABU2105

The warnings of the Blessed Beauty to the kings of the earth are utterly clear, without interpretation, and need no explanation. The Tablets to the Kings are sufficient and complete proof of the divine supernatural power. Study the Tablets to the Kings, consider carefully the severe addresses and observe the mighty warnings.  AB00060

When the prophets of God appear upon this earth, their validity is established by means of certain proofs. One of the proofs is through the fulfillment of former prophecies, the second proofs are their creative words and phrases which salute the hearts of humanity, the third are their deeds and the fourth are their teachings.  ABU0207

Whenever the Holy Manifestations of God appear in this world they establish their validity with certain proofs. One of their proofs is the prophecies given by former Manifestations. The second is the wonderful traces which emanate from their personality. The third proof is their own deeds. The fourth proof is their teachings.  ABU0046

One of the miracles of the Word of God and manifest signs of those who claim to be from God is that despite the oppression of enemies and killing, torture and tribulation, their Cause grows more influential day by day. Abasement becomes the cause of glory, captivity and imprisonment takes on the decree of freedom and deliverance.   ABU0707

And verily, O my God, through the workings of Thy wisdom, Thou hast made my proof in Thy religion like unto the proof of the verses of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, may God's blessings be upon Him and His family, lest anyone should doubt my truth, and should all who are on earth desire to believe, they would have no proof before Thee.  BB00059

Is there one endowed with the sense of smell who can inhale the fragrance of God from His most exalted Word? Is there one possessed of sight who can behold My luminous countenance? Is there one with hearing who can hear My most sweet call? Is there one with a heart who can detect My pervading fragrance between the heavens and the earth?   BH05477

Behold what hath appeared in truth, then be fair, and be not of those who said "God is our Lord," but when He came from the horizon of might they said "This is naught but a lying impostor." The trumpet hath been sounded in truth, yet the people are in doubt and strife. Say: Look ye, look ye, for the Sun hath risen from the horizon of proof.   BH06609

O company of the heedless ones! By what book did you believe in your Lord, the All-Merciful, and by what proof did you turn to Him? Bring it forth, if you have knowledge! Nay, by My very Self, the Truth! You have been impotent, as have all who dwell in the heavens and earth, to bring forth that which the Hidden and Treasured Name hath brought.  BH06884

The appearance of such wonderful signs and mighty results, the influence exerted upon the minds and thoughts of the people, the laying of the foundation of progress, and the establishment of the prerequisites of success by a young merchant constitutes the greatest proof that He was a universal Educator. No fair-minded person can possibly deny this.  AB01889

His proof is His Own Self, and His existence His authority - none knows this save those who have turned with sanctified countenance to their Lord's face and are among those who perceive their Lord's words with insight. Beware lest you hesitate in your Lord's Cause. Look then with sanctified vision upon the proofs of the Prophets and Messengers   BH00434

And now It standeth at its zenith with the sovereignty of grandeur, might and glory, having come unto you with God's proof and His testimony, then His evidence and magnificent signs. Fear ye God, and war not against Him Who hath come unto you with all the signs, through Whom God's power and proof, then His greatness and might have been made manifest.   BH01012

And if they claim that they are not powerless, then why they fail to produce a single verse like Our verses, from the primordial innate nature, and not through acquisition or theft? Although before each Manifestation of Truth, it is expected that the contenders bring forth that which they can, to the extent that the sorcerers did at the time of Moses.  BB00001

The greatest proof of a Manifestation is the Manifestation Himself. We do not have to prove the existence of the sun. The sun is independent of proof. He who has sight can see the sun and prove it for himself. It is not necessary to seek for other proof. For instance, it is a fixed fact that nothing could grow upon the earth without the light of the sun.   ABU0107

The Master said that the disciples of Jesus did not at first, believe in Him, because of signs and prophecies. They did not even remember or understand them until after His death. They believed in Jesus because of Himself - because of His character, and the light that came from Him, and also because of the light of their own inspiration within themselves.  ABU0044

O people of the earth! Hearken unto My call and then judge fairly in this irrevocable, this wise Cause. If ye deny Me, despite what the hand of My power hath manifested, and what the tongue of My knowledge hath proclaimed, and what the heaven of My will hath revealed, then by what proof can your faith in God, the Lord of the mighty Throne, be established?   BH07494

Through Him I have caused all creation to testify that there is none other God except Him, the Incomparable, the All-Informed, the All-Wise. He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be known except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own Person.   BH03835

These are four proofs that have been established, made firm, ordained and magnified from God, the Exalted, the Great. And thus through clear evidence our minds and our proof have been made complete before all the worlds. Verily should all who are on earth desire to enter into the Bayan, With Us are naught but those verses, and their powerlessness before them.  BB00003

And by the very same proof which aforetimes the prophethood of Muhammad, blessings of God rest upon Him, was vindicated, Their return to the world is also proven in the sight of God and those who are endued with knowledge. That supreme proof is naught but the revelation of the verses, which is beyond the power of all dwellers on earth to produce the like thereof.  BB00001

Consider then the verse wherein God hath mentioned: In what discourse besides God and His signs will they believe? For that referreth in the element of air to Muhammad and His words, then in the element of water to the first who believed in Him and His words, then in the element of earth to the last who guideth unto God and seeketh tidings of God's good-pleasure.  BB00506

they held the Proof as supreme, and the evidence as outweighing traditions, considering the former as the root and the latter as the branch, and saying, If the branch agree not with the root it serves not as an argument and is unworthy of reliance; for the reported consequence has no right to oppose itself to the established principle, and cannot argue against it.  AB00003

O people! This is indeed 'Ali in truth, who hath appeared with such evidence as hath rendered powerless all who are in the heavens and on the earth. He reciteth unto you at every moment from verses of which a single letter surpasseth all things, were ye of them that know. If ye deny them, by what proof do ye uphold your belief in God? Produce it, if ye be truthful!  BH11711

Consider a man without any assistance or help whatever declaring a matter and making a claim which was against all the nations of the Earth. Were you to take the courage of all the people in the world and put it into one heart, still that one who might possess it could not withstand what they withstood. Even their enemies acknowledge that it was a wonderful thing.   ABU1151

His proof is His Self and His Manifestation, and for them that are powerless to recognize these two, He hath ordained His verses as proof. This is of His favor unto all worlds. He hath deposited within every soul that whereby it may recognize the signs of God, for otherwise His proof unto His servants would not be complete, if ye be of them that ponder His Cause.  BH00597

Know thou that the Sun of Truth is a proof unto itself by itself. Its evidence is its light and radiance, and its testimony is its warmth and effulgence. It needeth no proof to demonstrate its existence. Rather, it is the blind who need proofs and indications to be guided from effect to cause. Such is the state of those who are veiled from beholding the manifest Beauty.  AB00501

O concourse of polytheists! Can any of your partners raise up the heavens or guide those who have gone astray unto this Beauty, the Dawning, the Mighty? And is there any among them who can originate the creation of the heavens and earth and then repeat it? What aileth you? How have ye associated partners with God, the One, the Peerless, the Hearing [the All-Seeing]?  BH02557

Were humans and jinn to gather together to produce the like of this Book in truth, they would never be able, even if they had all the people of earth and their like besides as helpers. By thy True Lord! They shall never be able to produce the like of even a portion of its letters, nor of its interpretations from some of the mystery, even as much as the film of a date-stone.  BB00002

"It is very good to memorize the logical points and the proofs of the Holy Books. Those proofs and evidences which establish the fact that BAHA'O'LLAH is the fulfilment of the Promises of the Holy Books. These proofs ought to be collected and memorized. As soon as someone will ask you--What are your proofs?--you may cry out at the top of your voice and say: 'Here they are!'"   ABU0266

Through them God provides His near servants with the fruits of wisdom and utterance, that He may detach them from all else besides Him and draw them nigh unto the precincts of glorious might. Say: He is verily the One with power over whatsoever He willeth, such that were He to desire to reveal in every moment proof after proof in establishment of His Cause, He would be able   BH02955

And if proof is intended, proof must be universal, not particular, else matters would degenerate into children's games and the gathering of mysteries would become a magician's arena. For if every soul had a whim, then the Guide of nations would have to become, among all peoples, the plaything of every mindless and uncomprehending one. And surely you would not consent to this.  AB00766

And if you do not look to the Bayan and deny God's proof which all the Prophets and Messengers brought, and do not accept God's verses which have ever been and shall ever be the conclusive proof as the criterion, then bring what you have if you be truthful. You must bring forth that criterion and proof by which you prove your truth today. By God! You will never be able to do so.  BH00004

By God, O people! All that ye have heard regarding him who warred against God hath appeared from Our presence, as every discerning one whom veils and coverings have not withheld doth testify. Place yourselves, O people, in the presence of God. If ye deny that which hath appeared and shone forth from the horizon of His Cause, by what proof do ye uphold that which ye possess?   BH01479

By God, wert thou to ponder within thyself, thou wouldst find My deeds sufficient witness to that which issueth from My mouth and floweth from My pen, requiring no further testimony from these people or from all the worlds. O Muhammad! Every deed hath its trace and every existence its fragrance. Therefore inhale from all that hath appeared from this Youth and flowed from His pen.   BH01315

Verily I declare, none besides Me in this day, whether in the East or in the West, can claim to be the Gate that leads men to the knowledge of God. My proof is none other than that proof whereby the truth of the Prophet Muhammad was established. Ask Me whatsoever you please; now, at this very moment, I pledge Myself to reveal such verses as can demonstrate the truth of My mission.  BBU0002

And furthermore, when I heard that certain people had presented to His Exalted Presence some words which should be mentioned in this book at this station, I began by mentioning those statements lest anyone think wrongly of me, and that after knowing what I have written in this book, his judgment may be manifest before God and before those possessed of knowledge among His creatures.   BB00214

He sent the Messengers as bearers of glad tidings and warners that they should worship none but Him, and placed in the hands of each one of them a token of His power before which all else is powerless, that truth might be established through His words and falsehood be nullified through His signs, leaving no argument for anyone after knowledge of His decree, and that all might submit.  BB00137

His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab] - may My spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - stated that one word or one verse of "Him Whom God shall make manifest" is sufficient proof unto the whole of the earth. Now consider how immense are the verses, commentaries, homilies, scientific treatises and prayers that have streamed forth from [Baha'u'llah's] blessed lips. Is there any room left for denying?   ABU1033

Even as the polytheists wrote in objection to Husayn ibn Ali - may our spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - saying that thou hast become the cause of division in the community of the people and hast created dissension in the religion of thy grandfather and hast introduced certain innovations. These same words are recorded in detail in the books. Consider, then there is no need to mention this servant.  BH00004

In this wonderful cycle such extraordinary signs and miracles appeared from the Blessed Perfection the like of which were not witnessed in former dispensations...Both friends and strangers, known and unknown, as well as the philosophers, writers and thinkers of other foreign and far off nations testified in the most eloquent and exalted language to the elevation and grandeur of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU0159

The Book (Koran) revealed to Mahomet is the greatest proof of Him as a Prophet, as the Arabic language in the Koran has never until now, been equaled. The seven proofs laid down by the Blessed Perfection of His truth are especially addressed to Mussulmen. If one is in doubt of this, he has only to produce a chapter of it. If this is so, then do not the writing of the Blessed Perfection prove His truth?  ABU1056

The Cause of God is more manifest than to need proof or evidence, for in all times and ages there hath appeared that which transcendeth human capacity. Therefore, the excuse of those who hesitate is unacceptable before God. Were people to adorn themselves with fairness, all would acknowledge that the divine testimony and proof of the All-Glorious, the Self-Subsisting, hath appeared in its essence.   BH00638

There is no doubt that we and you seek after truth, yet we have found no path thereto save through those signs of God which render impotent all the learned. This is what establisheth our religion from aforetime, and according to what hath been established between us and you, if discourse be not equitable with what God hath revealed in the Book, then whoso desireth to take a path unto God shall not act upon it.  BB00094

O people! If you deny these Messages, then by what proof did you believe in God's Messengers of old? Bring forth your evidence, if you be truthful! Do you marvel that a Youth of God has come to you in human form from among yourselves, reciting unto you the verses of your Lord and teaching you the ways of knowledge and wisdom, that He may draw you nigh unto the resplendent, sanctified and luminous Beauty of God?  BH01053

God the All-Knowing is witness that I am not capable of any miracle, nor is there any need, for such proof has been brought that all verses before it are nullified, and it is pure evidence of innate nature that speaks without reflection and writes without pause... And by the decree "Let them produce a discourse like it," it is evidence, and all sciences are proof for one who learns and knows through proper means.   BB00671

And among His signs is His being manifest, being seen by all, standing as His own proof, and His presence among witnesses in every region, among peoples who fell upon Him even as wolves, and compassed Him about from every side. Among His signs is His withstanding powerful nations and all-conquering states, and a host of enemies thirsting for His blood, intent at every moment upon His ruin, wheresoever He might be.  AB00444

We created thee from a beginning that hath no beginning, and We were well-pleased with thee from a beginning that hath no beginning - a paradise that no other paradise can equal, as a favor from Us, for We are the All-Bountiful. And We shall surely create thee unto an end that hath no end, and We shall be well-pleased with thee in every resurrection like unto this, as a favor from Us, for We are the All-Bountiful.   BB00135

Our conclusion is confirmed by the wisdom of the Koran. In it Mahomet even treats some mathematical questions which in his time had not been correctly solved by civilised nations. He who had been a simple, unlearned man contradicted the mathematicians of his time. But after the researches of a thousand years it transpires that what he said was right, and that what the ancient men of learning had declared was wrong.  ABU0524

Consider how Christ, alone and single-handed, with no helper or protector, with no legions or armies, and with the utmost meekness, raised aloft God's banner before all the peoples of the world; how He withstood them; and how at last He subdued them all, even though outwardly He was crucified. Now, this is an absolute miracle which can in no wise be denied. Indeed, the truth of Christ stands in no need of further proof.  AB00381

The mightiest, the most convincing evidence of the truth of the Mission of the Prophet of God is admittedly His own Word. He Himself testifies to this truth: Is it not enough for them that We have sent down to Thee the Book? The power to produce such evidence has been given to Me by God. Within the space of two days and two nights, I declare Myself able to reveal verses of such number as will equal the whole of the Qur'an.  BBU0004

Between them are five proofs which all can comprehend. The first is what God hath revealed aforetime in the Qur'an, in which all believe. Verily, none but God can reveal a single verse. When ye hear it, ye have no recourse in your religion except to say: This is from God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. This sufficeth you according to what ye have acknowledged before in the Book of God, if ye be of those who are certain.  BB00003

By My life, the Cause of God in respect to Me is more wondrous than the Cause of Muhammad, the Messenger of God, before Me, would ye but reflect upon it. Say: He was raised among the Arabs, then after forty years God revealed verses unto Him and made Him His Messenger to all the worlds. Say: I was raised among the Persians, and God revealed unto Me, after twenty-five years of My life had passed, verses which all are powerless to produce.  BB00330

Such teachings as have not been given since the beginning of the world and these teachings refer to all mankind and the highest degree of advice is at hand. Advices in the utmost of eloquence and rhetoric, morals in the highest degree of perfection, politics in the highest degree of perfection, laws in the utmost of firmness, public management in the utmost of regulation. Whatever the world of humanity is in need of is to be found here.   ABU1508

If there were fairness, in this Most Great Manifestation the very appearance itself in all its aspects is miraculous. Even outsiders testify to manifest miracles outwardly. The people of Iraq in Baghdad were astonished. But we do not proclaim such matters since they are based on hearsay and do not constitute proof for others. However, all fair-minded ones testify that Baha'u'llah demonstrated miracles in all aspects, conditions and effects.  AB02462

This is a proof that hath been perfected in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them, then throughout all worlds. Say: This is a proof that hath been completed in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them, then throughout all worlds. Say: This is a proof that hath been made great in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them, then throughout all worlds.  BB00004

A Manifestation of God is first proved by the characteristics of the divine essence shining from Him, as the existence of the sun is proved by the light and heat thereof. Because to prove the existence of God we must first know Him by His qualities. If you hear one is a king, who has neither subjects nor territory, how can it be proved that he is a king? He must have the preparation and other necessaries before he can rightly be called a king.   ABU0810

Hast thou not heard that My proof is Mine own Being, and My testimony is My Self, and My evidence is My Revelation, and that which floweth from My pen is a path to My knowledge, unattainable to all save those who have severed themselves from all things and passed straight through the world and all that is therein, aloof as a cloud? My proof hath ever been the revelation of My power which pervadeth all that are in the heavens and all that are on the earth.  BH00814

God adduceth no proof other than your powerlessness concerning what He hath revealed, even though ye all say God hath not revealed this, nor were we witnesses thereof. Consider the knowledge of those who claim We are learned in God's religion. Were God to send down unto them a sign like unto Moses, they would all believe in that moment. Say: These signs are greater than the signs of all the Prophets combined, if ye be of them that are certain in your faith.  BB00003

The proof of the validity of a Manifestation of God is the penetration and potency of His Word, the cultivation of heavenly attributes in the hearts and lives of His followers and the bestowal of divine education upon the world of humanity. This is absolute proof. After we have proved the validity of the Manifestations of the Word of God by investigating the divine teachings, we must discover for a certainty whether They have been real Educators of mankind.   ABU0057

In the case of one claiming to be a Manifestation of God, one must consider whether this education and this gift proceed from him. If it be so, there is no doubt but that he is a true teacher. This is the test of his genuineness; he must be an educator of men. A teacher should first of all be a virtuous and learned man; and if from his school or college trained and perfected disciples come forth, this is the proof that he is a Master, a true and divine teacher.  ABU0964

We sent a message to the divines in the Holy Shrines saying that if they wished to understand Our Cause, We stood ready to manifest whatever they desired We told them to have all the divines unite and request a single verse, stipulating in writing that if what they requested was manifested within an appointed time, they would cease their persecution and oppression, and if it did not appear, they could pronounce Our Cause false. But not a single one came forward.  BHU0027

know thou that the proof hath been completed, the heavenly table hath descended, the earth hath been cleft asunder, the heaven hath been split, the mountains have been scattered, the trees have been uprooted, the seas have been frozen, the path hath been laid, the balance hath been set up, the trumpet hath been blown, the door hath been knocked, the hosts have been arrayed, the inevitable hour hath come to pass, the tribes have been shaken, and the bugle hath been sounded   BH01535

In service to the opposers, this servant offers two words: Let some be appointed as representatives by others and come to this land, but on condition that they possess their own eyes and ears, as they are commanded in this Revelation, and witness that which equals all previous books and accept it. And if they desire, another equivalent can be newly revealed, provided all acknowledge that these verses did not exist before and have descended from the heaven of divine nature.  BH00107

Do ye deny Him for Whose meeting the Primal Point longed in His first manifestation, Who moved by His name and spoke in praise of His Own impregnable, exalted Self? Say: O people! If there should come unto you today anyone from among the Jews and Christians with a Tablet of God and His signs, and call out to you, "O people! By what proof did ye believe in the Primal Point, and by what evidence do ye deny Him in His latter manifestation?" - what would ye say, O heedless ones?  BH00711

In former dispensations, the proof of the Manifestation of God was perfect, but now it is more than perfect. The most wonderful event in this Revelation, was the protection of the Blessed Perfection while under the claws of the Shah of Persia and the Sultan of Turkey. His safeguard was like unto the safeguard of a blessed nightingale surrounded by a thousand eagles or an innocent lamp encircled by a hundred thousand wolves, or a small ark encompassed by furious and raging waves.   ABU0604

These verses are the Most Great Name of God with your Lord. None possesses them save God, the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of all worlds. Were God to ordain them for prayer that you should perform it, He would create it, and then all would pray. And were God to send them down to forbid something, then none would approach it. This is a proof that has perfected the ordinances of the Book aforetime and has abrogated the religions that were sent down before from God.  BB00004

When I interpreted the Quran as I was able, We desired to deliver you and all who are like you in your religion, that you might be thankful in the days of God. After Muhammad, the Messenger of God, was taken, the matter became confused for you in your religion, whereupon you return to God, your Lord. If you return unto me, God will remit your evil deeds, set right your condition, accept your repentance, and inscribe your names in the Book until the Day when all shall be raised unto God your Lord.  BB00085

Now that that Day-Star of Truth hath set, all stand in need of proofs, and thus have we been engaged in setting forth rational arguments. Let us present another proof - one which should alone suffice any fair-minded soul: That this glorious Being did advance His Cause from within the Most Great Prison, from whence His light did shine forth, His fame did encircle the globe, and the word of His glory did reach both East and West. Never in all history, if examined with fairness, hath such a thing come to pass.   AB00030

Man explains things in two ways. One explanation originates from his personal feelings, thoughts and understanding. This cannot stand as proof or criterion for all and does not satisfy the hearts. The other is a statement supported by proofs. It produces significant results and promulgates momentous matters which are necessary to the world of man. It is like the explanations and proofs of the Baha'is, who invite all to the oneness of humanity and to universal peace. This explanation has proofs and is effective.  ABU1915

"Now, how could a man who was a stammerer, who had been brought up in the house of Pharaoh, who was known among men as a murderer, and who out of fear had long been a fugitive and a shepherd, establish in the world so mighty a Cause that the wisest philosophers of the earth would be incapable of producing a thousandth part thereof? This is clearly an extraordinary feat...Were He not assisted by a divine power, He would never have been able to carry out such a mighty task. These are arguments that none can deny."  AB00855

As to the Manifestation (Baha'o'llah) all the religious books in the world bear witness to Him. The Magis have resisted the Mohammedans for nearly 1,400 years, refusing to accept Mohammedanism, and suffered great persecutions. They accept and believe in the manifestation (Baha'o'llah) because of the prophecies of their books. The Jews would not accept Christ, but, because they see their Bible prophecies literally fulfilled, they are becoming believers in great numbers. All of the Koran bears witness to the coming of God.   ABU1384

Second, God adduced no proof in the Qur'an for the Cause of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, save your inability to produce the verses of God, would ye but reflect. And were there with God a greater proof than this, He would surely have adduced it, and all else is as shadows before the sun - can ye not see? Ye all unanimously declare that the Qur'an is the greatest sign of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, if ye be of them that are certain. How is it that ye fail to deduce proof therefrom and enter not thereby into the religion of God?   BB00066

For years, the arrows of tribulation have rained down from the clouds of divine decree, by reason of what the hands of the wicked have wrought, upon the Truth and His loved ones, while thou didst repose upon the couch of heedlessness in utmost comfort. Now, in these latter days, when God's testimony hath encompassed the world and His proof hath risen like the sun from the horizon of His Cause, thou hast clung to the ropes of the world's soothsayers and their like, seeking to measure the Truth by a standard that is unworthy of mention.   BH01535

The Blessed Perfection is independent of all scriptural Proofs. The proof of the sun is its own existence. It is not necessary to prove the existence of the sun through the light of the moon, the stars, the growth of plants, animals and men. The evidence of the sun is its own rays and nothing else. Hence the proof of the Manifestation of Baha'u'llah is His own character, deeds, works and words. His evidence is clear, his light is shining and his Argument is irrefutable. All other proofs although valid in their own spheres are secondary.  ABU0828

The king asked: Was this Muhammad insane before making his claim? He said: No, he was not insane. Then he asked: Was he of royal birth? He said: No. Again he asked: After he claimed prophethood, did his affairs become orderly and comfortable? He said: No, rather he wandered homeless in the wilderness. The king pondered, then asked: After making this claim and enduring hardships, did he waver in his cause and claim? He said: No, he became more steadfast. Then he asked: Is he now advancing or declining? He said: More people gather around him and follow him.  ABU0189

Seven conclusive proofs have I taught thee regarding this matter, each of which alone sufficeth as evidence unto the fair-minded. First, if the verses of the Qur'an were not greater than all the miracles of the Prophets, how were their Books abrogated by it while it remained? This is a conclusive and compelling proof that this evidence was and is greater than the rod of Moses and similar physical proofs. Second, in the religion thou now professest, thou hast no escape, according to the decree of the Qur'an, from saying that none but God can reveal a verse.  BB00015

He has established these Dawning-Places that have risen from the Morn of Oneness with such clear proof that none besides these holy Manifestations could produce the like thereof, leaving no room for rejection or objection. For divine proof and heavenly evidence would not be complete for human beings without clear proof and manifest evidence. However, the specific nature of that proof - whether revealed verses, apparent signs, or otherwise - has been and always will be dependent on the will of that King of Divine Will alone, and not contingent upon any other.   BH00512

Ye have denied this Revelation whose verses and manifestations have encompassed the whole world, and ye have demanded proof, though all the Bayan hath been explicitly and specifically revealed concerning this most sublime and impregnable Revelation. Moreover, this Cause hath ever been, and shall forever remain, sanctified beyond any proof, allusion, expression or indication. Its appearance is in itself a proof, and its verses are God's testimony unto all the worlds. Would that ye had considered the Seven Proofs, which are among the early utterances of the Point of the Bayan.  BH00004

Similarly they regarded the numerous writings which, in spite of His lack of education, the Bab had composed, as due to the promptings of the Holy Spirit; extracted from books contrary sayings handed down by men of mark; adduced traditions apparently agreeing with their objects; and clung to the announcements of certain notables of yore. They also considered the conversion of austere and recluse doctors and eminent votaries of the Perspicuous Religion [of Islam] as a valid proof, deemed the steadfastness and constancy of the Bab a most mighty sign, and related miracles and the like  AB00003

Consider that the nineteen letters were in everyone's possession, yet none could speak verses like Mine. Indeed, I have made all My verses a proof for all who dwell on earth. Have you heard, from the first wondrous day of Adam - peace be upon him - until now, of anyone writing a single page that would serve as proof for all in the heavens and earth? This Cause is the fruit of creation and stands at the utmost heights of inaccessibility. Though the letters of the Baha are in everyone's possession, even if all were to gather together, they could not produce the like of a single verse.   BB00146

If thou seekest the outward path concerning the Bearer of this radiant Pillar, it hath been established by the consensus of this community that none can be its Bearer save from the lineage of God's Messenger, as Kazim and Ahmad before him explicitly stated. He must be free from physical defects that would repel hearts, possessed of strength, modesty, dignity and reverence, endowed with beautiful names and sublime attributes, showing signs of knowledge and piety, and manifesting tokens of supreme justice - all of which the people of discernment recognize through the light of their hearts.   BB00073

As to the matter of proof, it hath appeared with the brilliance of the sun at high noon and become renowned throughout all regions. Indeed, I am at a loss to determine which of the manifest proofs, clear evidences, and conclusive arguments that have appeared in this mighty Dispensation and noble age I should mention to thee. Shall I speak of the purified Scriptures and perfected Books which have rendered all the eloquent ones and learned ones on earth powerless, or shall I tell thee of the evident might of Truth, His resplendent power and His triumphant glory which have encompassed all horizons?   AB00085

The proof that has brought certainty, and which suffices for anyone who seeks the truth, is the revelation of verses which one has witnessed emerging from that Source. If anyone could write before Him, within five hours a thousand verses would flow forth from that Source in this manner. Although countless other attributes have been manifested - such as the revelation of a thousand verses of communion within five hours which have been heard but not witnessed directly - one has personally observed in the station of verses that there is not, nor has there been, any hesitation or contemplation in their utterance.   BB00662

These are verses which the idolaters spoke to the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake. That is to say, they made these verses the conditions of their belief, stating that if His Holiness would manifest these things, they would be convinced of the truth. Now consider those heedless souls who demanded that He cause a spring to gush forth in the land of Batha, or manifest for them a house of gold, or ascend to heaven before their eyes and bring a book they could read, or produce a garden with date palms and grapes, or come with God, exalted be His glory, and a company of angels.   BH01137

Verily God's proof against you is not completed by that proof, inasmuch as those who had not previously entered Islam will enter it. God will not punish them after their death, and they shall be questioned concerning them. Reflect a little upon the proof of your religion against others before, that perchance ye may thereby draw evidence against your own selves and save yourselves on the Day of Resurrection. Say: For those who were given the Books aforetime, God's proof was completed and perfected through Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and from them naught but the path of God will be accepted in the Bayan, did ye but know.  BB00003

He hath appeared in truth with all the signs ere ye asked aught of Him - and God is All-Knowing, All-Informed of this. He hath come unto you from the Dayspring of the Cause with the clear tokens of God, the King, the Just, the Manifest One. He hath stood between heaven and earth with mighty sovereignty, and there hath appeared from Him the proof of 'Ali, then the evidence of Muhammad, then the testimony of the Spirit, then that which was brought by Him Who conversed with God. Beyond all this, He hath appeared with such sovereignty as no eye in all creation hath witnessed the like thereof, nor the eyes of the angels near unto God.   BH01218

There are many proofs, but there is no opportunity to write them. As for proof in the view of the ignorant masses, it is supernatural occurrences. In brief, there are many such supernatural occurrences from Baha'u'llah reported widely, and if they wished, they could compile numerous treatises about them. But since such clear and decisive proof is not convincing to a denying opponent, we do not relate supernatural occurrences from Baha'u'llah, for the opponent could also relate such accounts about their imaginary deities, citing their own books and treatises. Therefore, we present rational proof so that no one has room for denial.   AB00304

This Person, at a time when He was outwardly in the utmost degradation, proclaimed that this Sun would shine forth, this Light would radiate, this bounty of Mine would encompass all, and all enemies would be brought low. And it came to pass exactly as He had said: All the kings of the earth could not resist Him; rather, all their banners were cast down while the standard of that Wronged One was raised to the highest zenith. Now, is this at all possible according to human reason? No, by God! Thus it became clear and evident that that glorious Personage was the true Educator of the human world and was confirmed and assisted by a divine power.  AB01520

This is a proof that hath been magnified in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them before all peoples. Say: This is a proof that hath been glorified in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them throughout all worlds. Say: This is a proof that hath been adorned in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them, then throughout all worlds. Say: This is a proof that hath been exalted in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them, then throughout all worlds. Say: This is a proof that hath appeared in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them, then throughout all worlds.  BB00004

And as for your mention of that Manifestation of Divine Unity as a distinguisher - by what proof? If it was by verses, then why do you turn away from this Distinguisher Who has appeared with verses before which every possessor of verses bows down in His presence, save those who are moved by the winds of leadership as they please - at times casting them upon mountain peaks, at times into the desert of error, at times throwing them into the depths of extinction, and at times leaving them under the wolves of self and desire? Say: Die in your wrath! By God, He has appeared by Whose word the proof of the first and the last is established, and by Him it shall remain established unto the end that has no end, and none deny this save every sinful disbeliever.  BH00004

For instance, a Jewish scholar would ask a most difficult question from the Torah and would immediately receive an answer. A Christian scholar would pose a complex question from the Gospel and would be convinced by His utterance. A learned exponent of the Qur'an would present himself and earnestly seek clarification of whatever most difficult questions he had in mind, and like parched earth receiving the descent of pure water, would attain satisfaction. Similarly would come the mystic, the philosopher, the mathematician, the physician, the engineer, the man of letters, and the poet - even scholars of geography. This fact was established among all groups, and to this day all the peoples of that land acknowledge and confess it. They all acknowledge the infinite perfections of the Ancient Beauty and submit to them.   AB00125

The measure of eloquence in that station - let the scholars who are versed in that art examine it until what they claim becomes clear. Among these is the station of supplications, where through God's grace and bounty there flows from my pen in six hours a thousand verses of supplications that indicate knowledge of the stations of divine unity which none can truly comprehend except those from whom the veils of glory have been lifted without allusion. And among these is the station of sermons, where there flows from my pen lofty words which those who do not comprehend the reality of the matter mistake for the sermons of the masters of eloquence. And among these is the station of the masters of eloquence in lofty words - if all were to gather to produce the like of even one discourse thereof, they would not be able, even if they were to assist one another.  BB00214


Verily spiritual exercises and eating little are no proof in My case, for I neither tire Myself nor reduce My food due to My physical weakness. Rather, the proof is that I have no proof. Understand if thou art possessed of understanding, otherwise submit to God's command that thou mayest be among the successful ones. I merely described the attributes of one who beareth that station - God knoweth best where He placeth His decree. As for knowledge, it is My knowledge of God and His chosen ones, and I know naught else. As for deeds, none hath fewer deeds than I, yet what passeth through Mine inner being is superior to the deeds of all the learned divines. As for supernatural occurrences, I possess nothing for Myself, and there is no greater sign for Me than My words, for the light of the Eternal Morn hath shone upon Mine outward being like unto Mine inner mysteries. I say not to thee more or less than this, and I seek God's forgiveness for limitation by either greater or lesser, and unto Him do I turn.  BB00154

In every age He hath sent forth a Messenger to draw men nigh unto Him and to remind them of the days of God - this is what hath been revealed in all the Books, did ye but know it. And with them He sent down a proof, that His evidence might be perfected unto all created things and His dominion be made manifest to all the worlds.  BH03032

Whoever falsely claims that this verse does not descend from the heart but is rather a verse from the divine essence which God sent down upon his heart to destroy him - God has already answered such a fabricator in His Book: "Then let them produce a discourse like it, if they speak the truth!" Consider within yourself: if you can speak everything you wish without reflection, and write whatever you desire without pause of the pen, and transform a single verse into well-constructed words reaching seventy in number, then you speak the truth in your claim. Otherwise, seek forgiveness from your Lord and return to His judgment. If you say this proof does not establish the ruling, God's Book belies you, and He suffices as a witness.  BB00345

For today, since thou hast desired to enter the field of disputation, cast at me whatever thou art able with all thy strength, might and power. For today no bird can soar to my heights, and I will dispute with thee according to that which We sent down before in answer to thy letter. If thou makest proof to be the mention of visions, as thou hast done in thy book, then by the glory of thy Lord, I have written more than thou in well-known books. And if thou makest proof to be eloquence in the mentioned sermon, then by thy Lord, I have composed sermons that none hath mentioned before and none today can match...  BB00036
