
The Books have been sent down to establish this Cause. Whoso turneth away hath verily denied God and His Messengers and His Books which were sent unto the worlds. Say: All Books have been expounded from this mighty Book. He who denieth this Book, naught shall be accepted from him though he act according to what is in the Books of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. BH09938

Thus, the reality of Christ's appearance in the Mosaic Dispensation was one of the divine mysteries that later became revealed and manifest through the appearance of Christ.  AB11056

Know thou verily, Baha'u'llah is the promised One in all the Books and Tablets  AB11308


I never dreamed to buy land around the Lake of Galilee and by the river Jordan; but the Blessed Perfection commanded me to do so, in consideration of their biblical sacredness and the historical associations running back into the oldest antiquity, thus connecting in a prophetic manner this new Dispensation with Judaism and Christianity.  ABU3238

He, verily, is the One promised in the Torah and mentioned in the Qur'an and the Gospel. He hath promised all peoples the Most Great Law  BH08346

This is the Day whereof Muhammad, the Apostle of God, gave glad-tidings aforetime, and before Him the Gospel and the Torah and the Psalms.  BH04447

All nations were promised by a sure promise and were awaiting with anxiety and longing the coming of the promised one.  AB00438

This is prophecy regarding the coming of Jesus in that book, the signs and marks of which were fulfilled with the appearance of the Promised One of the Bible; but since the Jews did not understand the meaning thereof, so they denied Jesus and -- God forbid! -- said that He was the deformed (Anti-christ). Then it is said by Jesus in the Gospel, that similar signs would appear in the last day -- or in other words -- in the day when Christ will come the second time in this world.  AB00917

Christians have always considered that this referred to the Holy Spirit. How can this be? The Holy Spirit was already in the world came in Jesus when He was born. Also Jesus Christ would never speak of the Holy Spirit as One with ears - ("Whatever he shall hear, that shall he speak"). This must be Advocate or Mahomet.   ABU0650

Verily the Torah cries out saying: "He Who revealed Me has come with His mighty signs." The Gospel exclaims: "He has come from heaven, He through Whose mention God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, adorned His Book." And the Qur'an calls humanity unto the Truth Who was promised  BH06042

Today all atoms are observed to be in a state of utmost attraction and excitement, for they have perceived the fragrance of the garment of Joseph of inner meanings. Yet most of the servants remain heedless and deprived of it, even though all who dwell on earth were created for this blessed and wondrous Day. The divine Books bear witness to this utterance and His tongue of will testifies to these words. At all times, night and day, render thanks unto God and occupy thyself with His praise with thy outer and inner tongue, for He hath made thee aware of a Cause of which the people of the world are unaware, save whom God willeth. Take hold of the divine Books with the hand of certitude, and with a mighty arm shatter and cast down the idols of vain imaginings. BH08024

This is the announcement wherewith were adorned the scrolls of Adam and the Friend, and that which the All-Merciful revealed unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and unto him who was named Ali before Nabil.   BH07701

He Who hath appeared is verily the One promised in My hidden Book and in what the people possess of My Scrolls and Psalms and My blessed, holy Books which We have sent down unto the Prophets and Messengers   BH08873

This is what We promised thee aforetime when We answered thee. Wait until nine passeth beyond the Bayan, then say: Blessed be God, the Most Excellent of Creators. Now judge fairly: in the year nine when this Call was raised, where were the ears and where were the eyes? Verily there hath been and is no escape for anyone except he repent and return unto God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting. Unless one turneth away from the Heaven of testimony, the Sun of certitude, the Most Great Ocean, and the Mighty Announcement, the divine verses and heavenly evidences have yielded and yield no fruit for such a soul.  BH00008

Verily, the people are veiled from comprehending the meanings of the Gospel, the Bible and the Koran and know not the interpretation of the scriptures of God, except those whose eyes are opened by the outpouring of the Spirit of God. Thou shalt behold men-servants and maid-servants of Baha in those far-distant lands and wide countries, speaking the secrets of the Gospel and the mysteries of the Bible and the allusions of the Koran and the explanation of the Words of the Merciful One.  AB05900

Look ye at God's previous Scriptures. By God! In every word thereof ye were promised this resplendent, dawning, rising, hidden, mighty and manifest Beauty   BH02004

"Undoubtedly, the friends, and the maid-servants of the Merciful should know the value of the Bible, for they are the ones who have discovered its real significances and have become cognizant of the hidden mystery of the Holy Book."  AB01389


To this Thy servant give the understanding of the Old Testament and the New and enable her to speak forth with mighty voice and to sing with power the holy songs and to discover the real meaning and the secret mysteries of those verses  AB11304

And be assured by what thy Lord has promised thee in the ancient scriptures and tablets, a single word of which cannot be equaled by the books containing the tidings that preceded in the former creation from those who were chosen and selected.  AB05959

All the Divine Books and Scriptures have predicted and announced unto men the advent of the Most Great Revelation. None can adequately recount the verses recorded in the Books of former ages which forecast this supreme Bounty, this most mighty Bestowal.  BH11362

This is He through Whom the Spirit spoke, and by Whose mention both the Torah and the Gospel were adorned.   BH00566

I am, I am, I am the promised One! I am the One whose name you have for a thousand years invoked  BBU0004

The Cause of Baha'u'llah is in the fulfillment of all the prophecies in all the Books of the religions of the world.  AB03720

The reality of the Pentateuch and the Gospel have become manifest and the mysteries of the heavenly Books have appeared!   AB02173


The Cause of Baha'u'llah is in fulfillment of all the prophecies in all the books of the religions of the world.  ABU3600

The great world teacher has already come.   ABU3629

These occurrences transpired solely through the fulfilment of those prophecies that are recorded in the Holy Scriptures of the Prophets.  ABU3716

Blessed be this Day wherein hath appeared what was promised in the Torah and the Gospel and in the Psalms and the Qur'an   BH01907

O people, read ye the Books of God that were sent down aforetime. Verily they bear witness to this Most Great Revelation   BH07313

That which was promised in the Books hath appeared.   BH10925

What is meant in the prophecies by the Lord of hosts, the promised Christ, is the Blessed Perfection (Baha'u'llah) and his holiness the Exalted One (the Bab)  AB00252

The Cause of Baha'u'llah is in fulfillment of all the prophecies in all the books of the religions of the world.  ABU3600

The Promise hath come, and this is the Promised One!   BH04576

He is in truth the One promised in the scriptures of God  BH08469

When the Promise came to pass, the world was overturned.   BH08196

The Promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come   BH06966

And verily God's promise hath been, by the truth, fulfilled.  BB00002

That which was promised unto the servants hath come to pass.   BH07198

He, verily, is the One promised in the Books of God aforetime.  BH08409

I testify that He hath fulfilled His promise and manifested His proof   BH03869

He Who was recorded in God's Books, the Ancient of Days, hath appeared.  BH08685

"This is the Day whereof God gave tidings in His Books and Scriptures"   BH05802

The promises and prophecies of the Prophets are fulfilled and evident!   ABU1688

"This is a Day the mention of which hath been recorded in former Books"   BH06165

The Promise hath come to pass and that which was hidden hath been revealed   BH05832

By God, the Day which God's Messengers and chosen ones foretold hath come.   BH03278

The promise hath come to pass, and the Spirit crieth out among the servants.  BH10739

The Promised One hath come, and in His grasp are the reins of all destinies   BH06565

This is a Day whereof God gave you tidings in His Books, Psalms and Tablets   BH05788

That which was promised in the divine Books hath in this day been manifested   BH10971

Soon shall appear the crier of whom We have previously informed the servants   BH04018

This is He Who was promised to you after the Qa'im, did ye but perceive.   BH05833

This is the Day whereof God's Books and His Messengers have given glad tidings  BH06709

O people! This is He Who was promised unto you in the Books and Tablets.   BH05660

this is indeed a manifest bounty whose effects shall soon appear in the earth.   BH01553

This is He Who was promised in the tablets of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH05395

And when the Promise was fulfilled and the Promised One appeared, they denied Him   BH07313

Soon shall you witness that which has been ordained specially for His loved ones.   BH03807

"In the Bible, all the prophecies of Jesus Christ were fulfilled with His coming."  ABU2884

This is a Day wherein God hath fulfilled His promise and manifested His sovereignty  BH10109

The Promise hath come and the Promised One hath appeared with manifest sovereignty   BH09542

The Promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come with manifest sovereignty.  BH07804

These are the same days which Moses was commanded to proclaim and Jesus described.   BH05230

"The promise hath come, the Promised One hath appeared with manifest sovereignty."   BH04235

that which was promised in the Books of God, the Master of necks, hath come to pass  BH03002

By God! He hath come Who was mentioned in the Books of God, the Mighty, the Bestower   BH11339

through which the decree of resurrection was manifested and those in the graves arose  BH07397

By the life of God! All that was revealed from My Most Exalted Pen hath come to pass.  BH03072

Reference to "sudden calamity" in Hidden Words being fulfilled through war and famine  ABU1494

This is the Day whereof ye were promised in the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH06142

this Day which was promised in the Books of Heaven and inscribed in My Preserved Tablet   BH09623

The Day of Return is manifest and the Mother Book speaks without veil or concealment   BH07593

not a single soul hath understood what this allusion signifieth and whence it shall appear  BH06611

All that was recorded by the Supreme Pen in previous Books has become manifest and evident   BH08456

This is the Day whose mention hath adorned the Scriptures of God, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH06798

"That which was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of Creation, hath been made manifest!"  BH09176

This blessed Day is recorded in the divine Books and Scriptures and is known as the Day of God   BH06040

That which was inscribed has become manifest, and that which was concealed has become renowned.   BH10559

The Promise hath come, and the Promised One hath appeared, yet the people are in evident confusion  BH03120

the Promised One of all nations of the world, Baha'u'llah, hath appeared at the center of the world  AB07573

We gave glad tidings of this blessed Day to all peoples in the former Books, and all were expectant.  BH08162

By the life of God! This is He Who was promised unto you in the Torah and the Gospel and the Psalms.   BH02239

Give thanks unto God for having attained unto that which was promised in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH07716

"Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth, as it is in Heaven"... That prayer is also a prophecy."  ABU3207

The Promised Day is come. Blessed is he who hath cast away the world and hath come with the Covenant.   BH03715

Verily We have manifested Our Self when the promise came to pass which was foretold in the Books of God  BH06387

He is indeed the One Whom God had aforetime mentioned through the tongue of the Prophets and Messengers   BH07186

He Who was hidden in knowledge and promised in the Books of God, the Mighty, the All-Praised, hath come   BH04801

This is the Day which all the Prophets and Messengers gave glad tidings of to the people and announced.   BH03476

Even if it be only a single room now it will have greater effect than the largest temples of the future.  ABU3169

He Who was announced by the Qa'im when He came from the heaven of divine Command with a perspicuous Book   BH08988

through which was revealed that which was promised in Thy Books, Thy Tablets, Thy Scriptures and Thy Psalms  BH09557

This is the Day wherein all things have spoken: "The Kingdom is God's, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting!"   BH06962

This is the day wherein the prophecies of the Holy Books of every tongue have been or are being fulfilled.   ABU2536

That which ye were promised in the Tablets hath been fulfilled, and every wise matter hath been made clear.   BH10854

that which was inscribed in the Books of God, the Omnipotent, the Mighty, the All-Choosing, hath come to pass  BH10624

This is the Day which God's Messengers have aforetime heralded, and which His Preserved Tablet hath extolled.  BH04856

That which had been recorded in His books hath indeed come to pass, and this verily is the Day of fulfillment  BH03383

This indeed is the true word, and who is more truthful in speech than Saint John? This is the Alpha and Omega  AB03051

We arrived at this place and expanded its borders - this is what God foretold in the Books of the Messengers.   BH09709

By My life! This is a momentous tiding wherewith God hath given the glad-tidings in His Books and Scriptures.   BH05565

The One who is to come is he who was promised in the books of God and his epistles; that is, the Manifestation  AB11574

The Cause of God shall be made manifest in truth, and thereupon shall the hearts of the hypocrites be troubled.  BH08331

Thus did the horizon of utterance shine forth when He Who was mentioned in the Books of the Messengers appeared   BH09352

Soon shall the mysteries of the verses be made manifest and the Dove of Justice shall warble upon the branches.   BH06673

Those who have denied these verses - all atoms curse them, and beyond them a most exalted tongue of truth.   BH03464

O people! The Day which ye were promised in the Tablets hath come. Fear ye God and be not of the heedless.   BH03332

The Cause of Baha'u'llah is in fulfillment of all the prophecies in all the books of the religions of the world.  ABU3600

Verily the Mount discourseth, yet the people hear not. Verily the Tree calleth aloud, yet mankind comprehend not.  BH08620

On that Day, true sovereignty shall belong to the All-Merciful, and ye shall not be able to utter a word in truth.  BB00002

Rejoice ye in God and His sovereignty, despite those who disbelieved when the Promise came and the proof appeared.   BH09462

"The Promised One has come, and that which was recorded in the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds, has appeared."  BH07079

All that hath appeared in the world was previously announced in the divine Tablets with the most clear exposition.   BH01535

This is the Day of which the Spirit gave tidings, and before Him Moses, and after Him Muhammad the Messenger of God   BH07102

The promise hath come, and He Who was promised hath appeared, when the Trumpet was sounded and eyes were transfixed.  BH06220

He Who was promised hath come, and the hidden treasure hath been revealed through His name, the Mighty, the Powerful   BH09259

remind them of this News which hath been inscribed in the Books of God and mentioned in the hearts of His Messengers   BH07897

The Promised One hath come, the Intended One hath appeared, and the proof hath been perfected, O heedless ones!   BH07504

This is the Day which the Prophets and Messengers gave glad tidings of, from God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH06033

whatsoever hath been recorded and set down by the Pen of Revelation in the Sacred Tablets is now manifest and evident   BH03856

give them glad tidings of that which hath been ordained for them in the Psalms and Tablets and in My perspicuous Book.   BH11150

The days have passed, and there hath come the Day of God which was mentioned in the Books, the Scrolls and the Tablets.  BH05128

"In truth, this fire which they have kindled, they have kindled for themselves, though they perceive it not this day."   BH03968

The prayer makes repeated reference to future belief in "Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection".  BB00230

All that ye have read hath been fulfilled. Ye shall arise from your slumber, O creation of God, and then remember.  BB00004

"He Who was promised in the Books of God hath come, He Whose remembrance was treasured in the hearts of the Messengers."  BH10711

O people! This is He Whose meeting ye were promised. He hath come from the heaven of the Cause with holy adorning.   BH08473

God gave glad-tidings through the tongue of His Prophets and His Messengers, yet when He appeared the divines denied Him  BH07411

Soon shall that which is seen be rolled up; then shall the sincere ones find what they were promised in a glorious Book   BH05455

That which ye were promised hath come to pass, and He for Whose meeting the heavens and earth were created hath appeared   BH03686

By God! The Day hath come and He Who was hidden in the knowledge of God, the Lord of the worlds, hath been made manifest.   BH08993

Among the people are those who say He hath fabricated a lie against God - thus did those who disbelieved speak aforetime.   BH06496

The Hidden has appeared and what was concealed in the Books of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy, has been made manifest.   BH05882

And for a time they shall continue thus, even as the duration thereof hath been revealed and recorded in the Book of God.   BH05695

Soon shall the veil be lifted, and the lights of the effulgences of the Sun of Truth shall illumine and enlighten the world  BH10923

O friends of Truth! That which was recorded in God's Book and mentioned in His Scriptures is this day manifest and visible.  BH08116

Every appointed time has come to pass and every sign has appeared, and the Promised One has come with manifest sovereignty.   BH09834

But when the appointed time was fulfilled and the signs appeared and the verses were sent down, they turned away and denied   BH06929

Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation before the completion of a full thousand years, such a one is assuredly a lying impostor   BH03991

We informed all while We were in Iraq of what would occur thereafter. Verily thy Lord is the All-Informed, the All-Knowing.   BH02658

this Day which was promised to the servants in the Qur'an: "The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds"   BH09548

The promised Day has come, and the mysteries of the Resurrection and the signs of the Hour have become manifest and evident.   BH09669

And verily He is the Promised One - when He came from the heaven of the Bayan, the people of the contingent world were shaken   BH07257

Upon the cross, Christ could see the establishment of divine sovereignty. Where is Pharaoh now to behold the majesty of Moses?   ABU1489

By God! The appointed time hath come and the dwelling-place of verses hath appeared with the standards of wisdom and utterance.   BH05269

Soon shall We manifest Our servant unto you in a cloud of light, for those who await God's true Remembrance morning and evening.  BB00002

My Beloved hath forewarned that all would turn away from the direction of the All-Merciful and become immersed in the sea of self  BH10565

God, the Lord of the worlds, bears witness that the Promise has come and the Promised One has appeared with manifest sovereignty   BH07145

The Promised One is He Who speaketh at this moment in this perspicuous Tablet, and this is the Day of vision and of meeting   BH06162

The Promise hath come to pass, and that which was mentioned in the Books of God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment, hath appeared.   BH03514

The Promise is fulfilled and He Who was promised crieth out: 'There is none other God besides Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.'   BH06323

O people! That which was hidden in knowledge hath appeared, and He Who was promised in the Scriptures and Tablets hath come.   BH03131

The Hidden One hath been made manifest, and that which was promised in the Books of God, the Mighty, the Great, hath been revealed.  BH05234

O peoples of the earth! He hath come, Whose advent was heralded in God's Books, from the Self-Subsisting unto the Most Great Name.   BH02506

This is the Day of Resurrection, the Day of Remembrance, and the Day whereof the Mother Book and the Books of old gave glad tidings   BH07461

By God, that which was recorded in the Books of God hath appeared, and He Who was promised by the tongue of the Messengers hath come   BH04027

The realities of the Old Testament and the Gospel are already fulfilled and the Mysteries of the Heavenly Books have become manifest.  AB05983

The Hidden One hath appeared and the Intended One hath come, and that which was mentioned in the preserved Tablet hath been fulfilled.  BH05043

This Epistle was revealed in the year 1869, and after one year the foundations of the Napoleonic sovereignty were completely uprooted.  ABU0037

He spoke - and His word is the truth - "A drop in the subsequent Revelation shall be mightier than all that was created in the Bayan."   BH01823

The Day of the Promise is come, and He Who is the Promised One loudly proclaimeth before all who are in heaven and all who are on earth  BH10137

The Hour hath drawn nigh and the moon is cleft asunder...They shall know the Command when We ordain that they become like dry stubble.   BB00535

Fix your gaze upon Him Whom God shall make manifest in the Day of Resurrection, then firmly believe in that which is sent down by Him.   BB00611

The abomination of desolation is the one who appears and tries to destroy the Truth and who makes some changes in the teachings of GOD.  ABU2914

The Promise hath come to pass and there hath appeared the Promised One through Whom the Sacred Scriptures and Tablets have been adorned.  BH06647

I testify that through Thee was fulfilled that which was recorded in the Books and inscribed by the Pen of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH03393

That which was recorded in the Books of God hath appeared and He hath come with verses before which every lofty mountain hath bowed down.  BH09127

This is what We foretold you aforetime in Our words: "On the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the Kingdom and the Realm."   BH06834

All that ye have heard concerning the Day of Resurrection and its conditions - thus doth inform you One Who possesseth a protecting Tablet  BH08413

Him Who was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of all worlds, and of Whom every Prophet and every trusted Messenger gave glad tidings   BH05260

The Promised One hath come with His All-Compelling Name and hath spoken: 'There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.'   BH00688

This is the Revelation which the people of the world were promised. The divine Books are adorned with Its mention and speak forth Its name.  BH11162

When the days were fulfilled and the promise came to pass, He came with the truth from the kingdom of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Beautiful.   BH03449

Whatsoever was recorded and hidden in all the divine Books concerning the Divine Manifestation has in this Day become manifest and evident.   BH08381

The Cry hath appeared and that which was recorded in the Psalms and Scrolls and Books from God, the Lord of all men, hath been fulfilled.   BH08045

By God, the appointed time hath passed, the Promise hath been fulfilled, and the Promised One calleth aloud and summoneth you unto the Truth   BH07398

Ere long, you shall witness all orders rolled up, and the peoples and nations of the world gathered beneath the pavilion of the Cause of God.  BHU0068

name her Dhakriyyih that ye may remember thereby the Day wherein the Most Great Remembrance of God will come to you with manifest sovereignty   BH10171

That which was written hath been fulfilled, that which was recorded hath appeared, and that which was promised in the Book hath come to pass.   BH04976

The promise of God hath appeared, the light of His Word hath encompassed the world. Cast aside the weak cord and take hold of the mighty staff.  BH02127

How blessed are you that you have become the cause and brought forth the hopes and aspirations of the Prophets into the realm of manifestation.  AB10908

The Promise has come to pass and the Promised One has appeared, and the Sun of proof and testimony has dawned from the horizon of manifestation.  BH10849

This is the Day in which the banners of the Manifestation have been raised, the Path has been laid, and the mountains have been scattered.   BH06208

Verily it hath flowed from the Pen of Establishment; erasure shall not overtake it throughout the duration of the dominions of earth and heaven.   BH04567

from that time until the Day when the Beauty of Baha will come upon the crimson Buraq and the matter will be decided by One mighty and powerful.   BH03098

All that hath flowed from the Pen of the Ancient of Days shall be made manifest. On that day shall the deniers behold themselves in manifest loss.  BH04838

Soon all divine promises given to Israel through the Prophets will be fulfilled in the heart of the world through the power of the Most Great Name  AB01333

"O peoples of the earth! Let your eyes be solaced, for the Promised One hath come and the Hidden One hath been revealed with manifest sovereignty!"  BH03935

This is a Day wherein all things have proclaimed with most loud voice: "The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Almighty, the Mighty, the All-Choosing."  BH09005

He has sent the Messengers and revealed the Books and given glad tidings therein to the servants of this Day wherein this mighty Cause has appeared.  BH06260

Muhammad and those who were witnesses after him, and all who believed in God and His signs, have returned to the life which all were promised.   BB00350

"That which We revealed unto thee before hath come to pass, and that which was hidden in God's knowledge, the Lord of lords, shall be made manifest."  BH05021

Through Him appeared what was inscribed in the Books of God, and His advent was heralded by the Point of the Bayan and before Him by God's Messengers   BH05421

"Zion crieth out: O People! The city of God hath in truth descended from heaven, and that which the Prophets had announced unto you hath come to pass."  BH07319

In all the books He gave glad tidings to the world that the time would come when He Who conversed on Sinai would repair to the Sinai of manifestation.   BH02387


All that ye professed aforetime through what was revealed by Muhammad, the Apostle of God - thus do ye act according to this proof and attain certitude.  BB00004

The Promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come with a sovereignty before which all who are in the heavens and on earth are powerless to resist.  BH00273

When the Promise came to pass and the Promised One appeared, the hearts of those who disbelieved in God, the One, the Chosen, were thrown into commotion.   BH10515

"O Husayn! Hussein has appeared after the Promised Qa'im Who was promised among the people" and "The story of Muhammad the Messenger of God has returned"   BH02571

"Hath the Resurrection come to pass?" Say: "Yea, by My All-Knowing, All-Wise Self!" "Hath the Hour arrived?" Say: "Yea, by the Lord of the Mighty Throne!"   BH07205

That is, the Manifestation appeared in Syria, not that he came out of Syria but from Syria he appeared as the Prince of Peace and the place was this Syria.  ABU1012

That which had never appeared before hath now been manifested, and that which lay concealed in the Books of God, the Lord of all worlds, hath come to pass.   BH08981

Today the Speaker of the Mount is speaking that which was foretold: "Await ye the appearance of Him Who conversed with Moses from the Tree upon the Mount."   BH08765

By God! This is the Day whereof Moses gave tidings, and concerning which Muhammad, the Messenger of God, gave glad-tidings in His Book, the Book of Wisdom.   BH02881

God hath revealed unto me: Verily, I am God, there is no God but Me. I have ordained the excellence of the Remembrance as My excellence over all the worlds.  BB00002

The entire world has been promised the manifestation of the Truth, exalted be His glory, and the previous Books bear clear witness to this most exalted matter  BH08766

This is the Day of which the Qur'an did aforetime give tidings through His words "On that Day shall sovereignty belong to God, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved."   BH05714

He hath given glad tidings unto all in His Books and Scriptures and Tablets of this Day which hath dawned from the highest horizon with His Most Glorious Name.   BH10307

By God! The appointed time hath passed, the signs have appeared, and the horizon of the world hath been illumined with the lights of the countenance of thy Lord  BH07936

that Announcement wherewith all the Prophets gave glad tidings to the servants, and wherewith the divine Books, Scrolls and Psalms were adorned and embellished.  BH07434

This is the Day whose mention caused the Messengers of old to rejoice, as attested by every Book which the All-Merciful hath sent down from His wondrous kingdom.  BH08759

Every appointed time hath come to pass, every sign hath been manifested, and every promise hath been fulfilled, yet the people remain veiled by an evident veil.   BH05820

This is the Day that was promised you in the Books of old and in the Furqan which was sent down unto Muhammad, the Messenger of God, from God, the Lord of Lords.  BH04595

The Seal of the Prophets and Guide of all paths hath spoken from God: "The Day when men will be as scattered moths, and the mountains will be like carded wool."   BH04338

He hath come after 'Ali even as the Spirit came after the son of Zachariah. Thus hath the Truth come and judgment been decreed from One mighty and powerful.   BH04130

His book was published many years before the declaration of constitution in 1908 so that no one can refute the validity of their authenticities as quoted therein.  ABU2515

became the most powerful proof of the truth of the Word and the means for fulfilling the glad-tidings of the saints and the promises in the Books of the Prophets   ABU1552

Soon shall the sincere ones behold the Day-Star of the Cause shining forth from the horizon of the will of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Triumphant, the All-Powerful.   BH05225

The Day hath come wherein God hath fulfilled His promise, such that He hath manifested Him Whose mention was hidden in knowledge and concealed from eyes and sight   BH07979

When they took him and agreed to put him in the depths of the well, We inspired him saying: You shall inform them of this deed of theirs when they least expect it.  BB00002

He hath manifested Him Who was promised in all His Books and hath adorned the world with this Revelation which was mentioned by Him Who conversed with God on Sinai   BH04839

He it is Who shall be made manifest hereafter even as He was made manifest before... And He Whom God shall make manifest is therein the Truth, were men but to know   BB00392

By God, the hidden Secret and the treasured Symbol, whose appearance was heralded in the Books of God, the Sovereign of the Day of Judgment, hath been made manifest   BH09104

Among them are those who are perplexed within themselves, whose inner voice addresseth them saying: "The Promise hath come to pass, yet we see not the Promised One."  BH03615

"How the prophecies of Isaiah the Prophet have found their fulfillment today - the wolf and sheep graze together, how the lion and ox stroll together, and so forth."  ABU2971

By God's life! No Prophet hath been sent except that He hath given glad-tidings of this Revelation. Thus was the matter decreed, but the people are in evident veils.   BH06066

St. John, on the Isle of Patmos, seeing into the future, foretold what would come to pass in this present Day. There is no time to this Light -- it knows all things.   ABU1930

By God! The Trumpet soundeth in My Name, and the Bugle proclaimeth My remembrance, and the Bell ringeth out: "The Sovereign hath come with manifest sovereignty!"   BH08910

They who are possessed of insight have perceived the divine effulgences and have attained to and become aware of that which was promised aforetime in the divine Books.  BH07547

The Son of Mary sought refuge in wilderness and desert to preserve His life, while now the kings of the world hold fast to His name and cling to the hem of His grace.   BH05634

The Hour hath come and the Resurrection hath been established, and the Hidden Name and the Treasured Mystery have been made manifest, yet most of the people know not.   BH05550

Soon will come a day when they shall bite their fingers in remorse and weep for themselves. Thus has the matter been decreed from the presence of One Mighty, Ancient.   BH01784

This is the Day whereof We gave you tidings in the Qur'an through Our true utterance: "The Kingdom on that Day shall be God's, the Lord of what was and what shall be."   BH06304

This is the Day of which God's Messengers have spoken aforetime. Blessed is he who has turned unto the Truth when it was established upon the throne of His Great Name.   BH06032

This is the Day wherein all things and the Concourse on High rejoice at the appearance of Him Who was recorded in the Books and inscribed in the Scriptures and Tablets   BH05006

Soon will His Cause be made manifest in truth, whereat the faces of them that are nigh unto God shall redden, and all necks shall bow before Him. This is a clear truth.   BH09188

The Day of God hath come, yet the people know it not. For by God, the Promise hath come, and this is the Promised One Who walketh in the palace and calleth all unto God   BH05803

This is He Who was promised in the books of old, and before Whose name the Kingdom of Names hath bowed down. To this testifieth he who hath with him a perspicuous Book.   BH05627

By God! He Who was promised in the Books of God has come, and He Who was the Purpose of those near unto God and the Beloved of the Prophets and Messengers has appeared.   BH05443

Soon will the effulgence of the Shrine of the Bab attract the attention of the denizens of the world and the blessed prophecies of Baha'u'llah will be clearly fulfilled.  ABU3705

Through Him the Hour has come to pass, and the Event has occurred, and the Inevitable has appeared, and thereby have all who are in the heavens and on earth swooned away.   BH10125

That which was promised unto you hath appeared in truth, yet ye deny it. This indeed is the All-Merciful Who hath come with clear proof, yet most of you detest the truth.   BH06317

O people of the Bayan! Judge fairly concerning this Announcement which Muhammad, the Messenger of God, foretold, and unto whose mention the Point of the Bayan bowed down.   BH06163

O deniers, what do you understand by "the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds," and by "when thy Lord shall come, and the angels rank on rank"?   BH11181

By God the Truth, the appointed time is fulfilled and the All-Bestowing One is come, through Whose remembrance every book and scroll and preserved tablet hath been adorned   BH09982

We sent forth Ahmad and Kazim to herald the Revelation of God and His sovereignty on this Day which was mentioned in the tablets of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH04085

It reminds the people of what was revealed from His presence and gives them glad tidings of this Manifestation, even as He gave them glad tidings before in His mighty Book.  BH11903

The events which have transpired were all recorded fifty years ago in the Tablets of Baha'u'llah--Tablets which have been printed, published and spread throughout the world.  AB00862

That which was promised in the Books of God and treasured up in His knowledge hath appeared. Open your eyes, for verily He hath appeared in truth with manifest sovereignty.   BH05921

But that exile became the cause of the raising of the Call and exalting the Word of God, of fulfilling the prophecies of the Prophets and of guiding the people of the world.  ABU1755

We gave the glad tidings of this blessed Day to all men aforetime, yet when it dawned from the horizon of God's Will, most of the servants were found heedless and turned away.  BH10233

This is that mighty announcement wherewith all divine Books have been adorned and whereof all the Prophets and Messengers have given glad tidings to the peoples of the earth.   BH03050

O people! The divine promises have been adorned with the ornament of fulfillment, and whatsoever was announced in the heavenly epistles hath become manifest and evident.   BH00585

Yes, in the Torah there is an expression "madmad" which means praise and has also come as a person's name, and in numerical calculation corresponds to the number of Muhammad.   ABU1921

That which ye were promised in the Book hath come to pass, and the Promised One is established upon the throne, and the Beloved calleth aloud: "The Best-Beloved hath appeared"   BH07640

Therefore, O God, send Thy blessings upon Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest on the Day of Resurrection with the signs of Thy power, with the Most Splendid of all Thy Splendors.  BB00003

Mount Carmel will be a Mountain of Knowledge, Peace, and Protection in the future----the vineyard of God. We will not live to see this in the body but will view it spiritually.   ABU1699

We gave the glad-tidings unto all in the Books of old concerning this Most Great Revelation, yet when the morn of reunion dawned, every denier and infidel turned away therefrom.   BH07519

This is that Cause which was mentioned and recorded in the former Books. This is that Treasure which hath ever been preserved and safeguarded in the treasury of God's protection.  BH07435

"The Bayan hath verily announced unto all created things this mighty Revelation... But for Him, who would guide you unto God and who would make known unto you His straight path?"   BH05817

How many a Prophet hath lamented My separation, and how many a Messenger hath yearned for My days. To this do the denizens of the realm of the Kingdom and of dominion bear witness   BH10378

For if you unite and blend and harmonize, the All-Powerful will support you with peace and welfare and love and safety and a good life and eternal glory and everlasting happiness.   ABU0168

God--exalted be His glory--hath, in all His Books, Tablets and Scriptures, promised unto His creation this Most Holy, Most Exalted Day and this Most Great, Most Mighty Manifestation.   BH07595

He informed everyone of this Most Great Manifestation. But when the time came and the promise appeared, those servants who wandered in the desert of hypocrisy turned away from Him.   BH05099

This is that Comforter of whom the Spirit gave tidings, and this is that Hour concerning which the Son confessed that neither He nor the angels of heaven had any knowledge thereof.   BH04991

The gate of heaven hath been opened and He Who was promised by the tongue of the Prophets hath descended, He Who was inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in the Scriptures and Tablets.  BH11621

GOD has given power to others; He will give it to you. In past ages, consider how He gave, in the time of Christ, of Mohammed and of Moses. He will also give you the greatest power.   ABU2013

This is the springtime of the All-Merciful, did ye but know. The Lord of Seasons hath come, did ye but perceive. The Sovereign of Days hath appeared - blessed are the people who see.   BH04632

The Most High, the Most Great God hath spoken the truth: that which was foretold in all the Tablets hath come to pass, and the cawing hath been raised from the abode of the sinful one.  BH07043

The teachings of Moses were like a seed, but when the seed grew into a plant and bore blossom, then fruit--the fruit signified Christ, who was the result of all the teachings of Moses.   ABU1384

I say in truth, the blessed word "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets" found its consummation in "the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds."   BH10249

And ye were promised Him in the Tablets of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. Say: He was, verily, the Herald of My Own Self - read ye the Bayan, that ye may be of them that understand.  BH05909

This is the Day whereof the Books of God, the Mighty, the Loving, have spoken. There is no Book but hath given glad tidings of it, and no Messenger but hath announced this Promised Day.   BH09465

Every appointed time hath been fulfilled, every sign hath been made manifest, every hidden secret hath been revealed, and He Who was promised hath come in truth, riding upon the clouds.   BH05235

Although these stations are now concealed, yet the Hand of Power will assuredly remove the obstacle and manifest that which shall be the cause and source of the illumination of the world.   BH03564

"This is the Day concerning which Thou didst covenant with every Prophet to herald unto all the advent of Him Who shall be manifested therein with Thy sovereign might and celestial power."  BH00421

The Divine Day which was recorded and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in all the heavenly Books hath appeared, yet the people remain heedless and veiled therefrom, save whom God willeth.   BH07938

The Day that was recorded and mentioned in all the books has appeared, and the Light that was forever hidden and concealed in the divine treasury of infallibility has dawned and shone forth   BH04895

This is that Husayn Who was promised in the Book of God, the Lord of lords. Verily, He hath appeared after the Qa'im with a Cause before which all who are in earth and heaven shall not stand.   BH11161

O Thou through Whose Name the mysteries of the Resurrection and its signs were revealed, and the earth was cleft asunder, and its treasures emerged, and that which was hidden therein appeared   BH09318

"God, exalted be His glory, has fulfilled His promise and made manifest His Day, according to His blessed and exalted words: 'The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.'"   BH04193

I came not to proclaim that which ye already possess. Verily, verily, this day is a new day; He that hath come is the Wondrous, and His bidding the wonder of all that is in heaven and on earth  BH11675

There will be a general war between the European powers and Germany of course will take a prominent part. Baha'u'llah has predicted a war between Germany and France and this will be fulfilled!  ABU3286

Rejoice, O people, in the appearance of God and His sovereignty! He hath appeared in truth and come with an evidence that none can deny save those who have disbelieved in God from all eternity.  BH08229

Relief hath come, while the people remain in evident doubt. He Who was promised in the Books of God hath come, and that which was recorded in the hearts of the Messengers hath been made manifest.  BH05604

The time of former things is past and a new time has become manifest, and all things are made new by the desire of God. But only a new eye can perceive and a new mind can comprehend this station.  BH03590

The Promise hath come to pass, to this the Promised One Himself doth testify. The Hidden One hath been made manifest, and God, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling, hath borne witness unto this.   BH09714

God, the all-glorious Lord, saith in the wondrous Qur'an: And We wished to be Gracious to those who were being depressed in the land, to make them leaders and make them heirs. Thou art of the heirs.  AB09824

Thus have We sent down the verses and dispatched them unto thee that thou mayest remind the people of this Cause which lay hidden in God's knowledge and was mentioned in the Books of the Messengers.   BH06596

All things have today borne witness to this Revelation which hath shone forth from the horizon of the Unseen, save those who have clung to their desires, turning away from God, the Revealer of verses.  BH08907

The Qa'im predicts the coming of the Qayyum with truth, and that when He arises, the people shall arise for the Lord of the worlds. He shall not be known through the Bayan or through the books of old.   BH07725

The advent of such a Revelation hath been heralded in all the Sacred Scriptures. Behold how, notwithstanding such an announcement, mankind hath strayed from its path and shut out itself from its glory.  BH04631

I have manifested the Gate through the revelation of My Self on the Day of Resurrection, that We might recompense those who believed in the Qur'an and cast into the fire those who believed not therein.  BB00129

Verily We gave glad tidings unto all in the Bayan concerning these days, and took from each and every one, whether young or old, a covenant. Yet when the Promise came to pass, they arose in opposition.   BH05859

All the peoples of the world were awaiting the Manifestation, and the appointed time for all nations came to pass, and the promised Sun rose from the horizon of the heaven of revelation and shone forth   BH05017

This is the Day that was promised to every soul in My perspicuous Book which We sent down unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and before Him unto the Spirit, and before Him unto Him Who conversed with God   BH03838

It is recorded in all the Books of the Gospel that He Who is the Spirit spoke in words of pure light unto His disciples, saying: Know that heaven and earth may pass away, but my words shall never pass away.  BH00012

By God! The Promise hath appeared and the Promised One hath come from the horizon of power with the banners of verses. Blessed is he who hath heard and turned toward Him, and woe unto every heedless doubter.  BH01657

And in this instance it is recorded in the tradition that in that year Caem (the Promised One) shall appear. This latter is a prophecy regarding the coming of the Promised One whose name will be Ali Muhammad.   ABU2121

How great are the tribulations that you have sustained at the hands of the Romans and the Muslims and others, and yet you have persevered. At last, the promise of the Prophets regarding you has been fulfilled.   ABU1825

Praise be to God! All future events were clearly, openly and explicitly revealed in the previous Tablets, some fifty years ago, others thirty years ago. All have come to pass, and yet the Persians are negligent!  AB00245

However, this imprisonment shall cause the exaltation of God's Cause and the upliftment of His blessed primal Word, for God is the All-Compelling and that which He has willed shall surely encompass the whole world.  BH05723

Then the men will exclaim that this command of BAHA'O'LLAH is the Command of Justice, this teaching of BAHA'O'LLAH is well proven, and this crown that BAHA'O'LLAH has set upon the heads of women is well-deserving.   ABU0483

Compare how from all corners of the world Jewish peoples are coming to the Holy Land, acquiring villages and lands to inhabit, and increasing day by day to such an extent that all Palestine is becoming their home.   AB00091

The smoke hath risen and prevented eyes from beholding the Most Exalted Horizon. Woe unto him who hath turned away from the Truth, and blessed is the servant who hath heard and said: "Here am I, O Lord of all days!"  BH09101

Concerning what you wrote about the sinking of certain lands - similar occurrences have repeatedly happened in other places, but surely a great abasement awaits the people of the world as recompense for their deeds.  BH04702

He is among those who attained unto the recognition of God at the beginning of the Nine, concerning which the Point of the Bayan gave tidings in His words: "In the year Nine ye shall attain unto the presence of God."  BH03687

By God! The Most Great Book hath been sent down upon the human temple. Blessed be the All-Merciful Who speaketh at the heart of contingent being: "There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise."   BH05049

Forty years ago, the Supreme Pen foretold with perfect clarity the appearance of these events, and it is certain that until now whatever has occurred has been in accordance with what was revealed from the Supreme Pen   ABU1542

At the time that they placed the crown of thorns on His blessed head, Christ, with His discerning eyes, could see the [eventual] submission of the kings of the earth. But no other person could see what His Holiness saw.  ABU1689

Consider how the Signs of the Tablet which was revealed to you on September 1st 1901 have become apparent and manifest... That Tablet was sent to you and now you are beholding how its signs and predictions are fulfilled.  AB08647

Some of the peoples of the earth were awaiting the appearance of Husayn, inasmuch as in the past the chosen ones of God, exalted be His glory, had given the glad-tidings to the servants of His appearance after the Qa'im.   BH09648

This is what ye were promised in the Books of God, if ye be of them that know, and this is that whereby the Truth was established in the eternity of eternities and shall be established unto the end that hath no end.   BH00358

Verily hath the Qa'im shone forth from the horizon of Glory, and we bear witness unto Him. Say: O people of the Bayan! By God, the Truth! The Expected One hath appeared and we have truly submitted ourselves unto Him.   BH04029

Every Prophet hath announced the coming of this Day, and every Messenger hath groaned in His yearning for this Revelation, which when it appeared, all things proclaimed: The Kingdom is God's, the Most High, the Most Great.  BH03363

The divine promise has been fulfilled and that which was mentioned in the heavenly Books has appeared. The One Who departed has returned - that is, He Who ascended has descended with great glory and a luminous countenance.   BH03915

When the Promise came and the Promised One appeared, each party clung to what it possessed of idle fancies and vain imaginings. They cast the command of God behind their backs, hastening to the dawning-places of conjecture.   BH03583

This is the Day of the Bayan, were ye of them that hear, and this is the Day wherein the Herald proclaimeth from every direction that which lay hidden in God's knowledge. Rejoice, O people, and be not of them that turn away!   BH08397

We gave the glad-tidings of the coming of the Lord of Power to all the children of men in the former Book, as is recorded therein where He says "I go away and come again." But when He came, the people of the earth denied Him   BH08117

The Day of God hath come, which Moses the Interlocutor foretold, and after Him the Spirit (Christ), and after Him Muhammad the Apostle of God through His words "The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds."   BH08905

All the chosen ones and holy ones gave glad tidings unto the people of the appearance of the Most Great Luminary, that He might lead forth the people from darkness into light and give them the glad tidings of the days of God.   BH07007

Soon shalt thou witness how the people of the Bayan will turn away from the Manifestation of the All-Merciful. Thus did my Beloved inform me before the creation of the heavens and earth, and before the creation of the worlds.   BH00670

This is Muhammad, your Qa'im, your Guide, and your Mahdi, the One concerning Whom ye were promised. We sent the Messenger and revealed the Book unto those in that land that ye might believe in God and His signs and be assured.  BB00003

Finally the twenty-fifth verse tells us that this will come to pass when the seals are broken, and the proverbs are made plain. This is BAHA'U'LLAH. He does not speak from an individual standpoint, but from one of inspiration.  ABU0560


Verily We have given glad-tidings unto all people that the great and blessed verse "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets" hath been fulfilled in the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds  BH11226

That which the Friend (Abraham) mentioned hath appeared, and after Him He Who conversed with God (Moses), and the Spirit (Jesus) bore witness to it, and after Him the Beloved One (Muhammad) by whom the Night Journey was adorned.   BH05783

"The Promise hath come and the Promised One calleth out before the faces of kings and subjects: He Who was hidden in knowledge and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in God's Books, the Lord of the Day of Resurrection, hath come!"  BH01741

That Day shall be like unto this Day. Therefore render not yourselves as dust, that your Lord may be made manifest. Verily He shall make Himself known unto you, though ye be heedless thereof. For thereby do ye destroy your souls.  BB00004

The events of this day are most momentous, though their reality is known only to those with insight. Although the honor of this day is unknown to the people, it is the first blast...These are all signs of the Day of Resurrection.  ABU0366

These are the verses of this Tablet which God had revealed in the inner concealed meaning of the allegorical verses of the Quran, as had been previously so decreed in the Quran, that perchance the people may attain unto certitude.  BB00316

"Soon will your faces shine like the sun at its meridian, and the Dove of the Cause will warble: 'Prostrate yourselves, O people of the earth, before these faces that have shown humility before God, their Lord, from all eternity.'"  BH05055

To this beareth witness My Messengers and My Chosen Ones whom We sent to give glad tidings unto My servants of this Day wherein the Trumpet hath sounded and the Bugle hath been blown and the Cock hath crowed and the Dove hath cooed   BH08286

This is the Day which all peoples were promised in the previous Books. Each of the Prophets and Messengers, by the command of the Lord of the Worlds, gave tidings to all on earth of this blessed Day which is attributed to the Truth.   BH06420

This is the Day which Muhammad, the Messenger of God, foretold in the Qur'an, and before Him the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds. He spoke, and His word is the truth: 'The Day when the heaven shall give forth a manifest smoke.'   BH06043

Hearken in the Persian tongue and ponder the blessed verse the Day when the heaven shall bring a manifest smoke. Observe how according to its outward meaning, Iran hath been overtaken by the clamor of the heedless and manifest smoke.  BH10243

They have not yet understood that the advent of the Prophets culminated in the Manifestation of God, as the Point of the Bayan foretold: "Verily He speaketh in all things: 'There is no God but I, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.'"   BH02142

Whatsoever hath appeared in the earth was revealed beforehand by the Most Exalted Pen...Whatsoever hath occurred and shall occur in the earth hath been revealed clearly and manifestly in the divine Tablets without any interpretation.   BH01758

O people! All things were promised to attain His presence in the Year Nine. Read ye the Bayan that ye may find a way unto Him. O people! He hath appeared with the proofs of the ancients and the Scriptures of those who came after.  BH06472

The text discusses multiple examples of prophetic statements and their fulfillment: Christ's prophecy about Jerusalem's destruction, the Quranic prophecy about Rome's victory, and Baha'u'llah's prophecies about Adrianople and Tehran.   ABU1550

The Books have announced My Revelation and the Bayan hath testified to this hidden Name. In one place He said He would appear at the time of Mustaghath, and in another He mentioned that should He appear at any time, none should object.   BH05117

In brief, they are unaware of the Resurrection, the Day of God, and what hath appeared therein as revealed in the Qur'an and previous Books. They are intoxicated with the wine of passion and have turned away from the horizon of guidance.   BH02148

Although at present no matter worthy of mention is evident, there is no doubt that hereafter the exaltation of the Most Great Word and the elevation of the stations of His loved ones will become clear and manifest to all like unto the sun.  BH00707

This is the Day which Muhammad, the Messenger of God, and before Him the Torah and the Gospel, did foretell. Soon shall they who have been heedless thereof bewail their plight, and they shall find for themselves neither protector nor helper.  BH08049

Have ye not heard when the Trumpet was blown, and every rejected idolater was thunderstruck? The All-Merciful hath come, and the smoke hath seized all in the worlds, yet they see not, save whom thy Lord, the Mighty, the Loving, willeth.   BH03022

Know thou with clear certainty that the effulgence of this Most Great Revelation hath encompassed the world, and ere long such means and crafts shall appear in the realm of being as shall confound the minds of the possessors of understanding.  BH00120

We have sent forth the Messengers, revealed the Books, and announced unto the world this Most Great Revelation. The Books of God, the Lord of all worlds, bear witness unto this...He Who was promised throughout the ages and centuries hath come.  BH06159

O heedless ones! By God, He Who was recorded in the Books of God hath appeared, He Whom His chosen ones, His trusted ones and His messengers heralded - to this testifieth He Who hath spoken that which the Scriptures and Tablets encompassed.  BH01923

That which was recorded in the Book hath appeared, for the All-Bestowing hath come with manifest sovereignty and hath uttered the Most Great Word, whereby souls were quickened, bodies were gathered together, and every mouldering bone was stirred.   BH03450

he knows and also says that if the whole world were to unite to release me from prison before the appointed time it would be impossible, and when the time for freedom comes, even if all the kings of the world unite they cannot prevent my freedom.   ABU1451

From this prophecy we understand that during the interval of 490 years Nebuchadnezzar came, destroyed the Temple, carried away many prisoners and toward the end His Holiness the Christ appeared, and after the period of his ministry he passed away.  ABU0046

"I swear by the Sun of Truth that no Book hath been sent down except that it gave glad tidings of this Most Great Revelation and this Most Straight Path. Were it not for Him, no Books would have been revealed and no Scriptures would have appeared."  BH07385

that tent of the Lord which was predicted by the prophets to be raised on the plain of Acca and on Mount Carmel, the tent under which international Congresses of humanity must be convened in the future and the Flag of Universal Peace waving over it   ABU1791

Every proof and prophecy, every manner of evidence, whether based on reason or on the text of the scriptures and traditions, are to be regarded as centered in the persons of Baha'u'llah and the Bab. In them is to be found their complete fulfillment.  AB11448

The day and age promised by the divine Prophets has appeared. This is the day in which Zion dances with joy. The day has come in which Carmel is revived and is rejoicing. That day has come for you to return to Palestine and see how it is flourishing. ABU3142

The day and age promised by the divine Prophets has appeared. This is the day in which Zion dances with joy. The day has come in which Carmel is revived and is rejoicing. That day has come for you to return to Palestine and see how it is flourishing.  ABU3142

O people of the Bayan! Train your souls in such wise that if there remain any trace from you after Him Whom God shall make manifest, it may benefit your Creator, even as what appeared after that Day benefited the Creator of the followers of the Gospel.  BB00003

All the Divine Books and Scriptures have predicted and announced unto men the advent of the Most Great Revelation. None can adequately recount the verses recorded in the Books of former ages which forecast this supreme Bounty, this most mighty Bestowal.  BH11362

They said: If the wolf should devour him while we are a strong band, then indeed we would be losers... when Joseph's brothers said to their father: If the wolf should devour him, then indeed we would be mentioned in truth upon the earth around the fire.  BB00002

that the prophecies recorded by the Pen of the Most High in the sacred Scriptures may be fulfilled, and that which God, the Lord of all worlds, hath purposed in this most exalted, this most holy, this mighty, and wondrous Revelation may be made manifest.  BH02294

Prophecy of martyrdom: God hath willed as He hath willed that thy face be reddened with thy blood upon the earth... God hath willed as He hath willed that thy daughters and womenfolk be seen as captives in the hands of the unbelievers contrary to justice.  BB00002

The teachings of the Ancient Beauty constitute that Covenant, all of which must needs be realized in its own time, even though it may take successive centuries; yet ultimately it must be fulfilled and breathe a new spirit into the dead bodies of mankind.   ABU2545

By God, the True One! The Qur'an crieth out amidst all created things: "He Who was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds, hath come!" And the Gospel proclaimeth: "The Glorious One hath come! The Kingdom is God's, the Mighty, the Beauteous!"   BH05424

In most Tablets this Most Mighty, Most Holy Manifestation has foretold Him Whom God shall make manifest. The purpose of all these mentions has been the latter Manifestation in the next cycle, for He was the Beloved of His soul and the Purpose of His heart.  BH00004

This is the Day which Moses heralded in the Torah, and the Spirit [Christ] in the Gospel, and after them Muhammad the Messenger of God. Read what the All-Merciful has revealed in the Qur'an: "The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds."   BH03465

All the Prophets gave mankind the glad tidings of this wondrous Day, saying "Lead the people out of darkness into light and give them the glad tidings of the days of God." All sacred Books and Scriptures bear witness and testify to the Revelation of Truth.   BH00562

Therefore did the Tongue of Utterance proclaim in one instance these words: "Grieve not, for God shall soon open before your faces the gate of the city. Then shall enter and leave through it whomsoever He willeth. He, verily, is the Mighty, the Desired One."  BH00919

the prophesies of the prophets concerning the [raising] of the voice of the Lord of Hosts from the Mountains and the hills of the Holy Land would not have been fulfilled and the Tent of the Lord of lords would not have been pitched on its plains and meadows!  ABU0962

All the prophets have failed to ever say "The Day has come" but said, "The Day will come." They all describe this day of God. In the time of Jesus He said, "the time is near at hand." According to His Teachings, all the disciples foretold of the Day of God.   ABU0718

But in this Revelation, praise be to God, no one could say the Blessed Beauty did this or that wrong. All the learned bore witness to the greatness of the Blessed Beauty in newspapers and books. They did not say He was a sorcerer, mad, a liar, or a murderer.  ABU0708

"There came not unto them any Messenger but they did mock at Him." Glory be to God! All that hath been mentioned they have heard and have also acknowledged, and yet they have uttered that which caused every seeing one to weep and every knowing one to lament.   BH04348

But when the appointed time came and the Revealer of verses appeared, the people were seized by the doubts of those who denied God, the Lord of the Beginning and the End. Some doubted His Cause, while others denied this Hour from which all hours have dawned.   BH02167

O peoples of the earth! The Hidden One has appeared and the Treasured One has come!" And the Herald has called out: "O people of earth! The gate of heaven has been opened and He Who was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, has come!"   BH04145

"Love for you and respect for you has been and is obligatory upon every soul, and if the present souls show negligence, assuredly souls shall appear from behind the pavilion of divine Will who shall act according to what hath been revealed from the Supreme Pen"  BH05198

This is the Day whereof every Prophet and every Messenger from God, the Lord of the worlds, gave glad-tidings. This is the Day wherein it behooveth every seeker to be in such wise that neither the books of the world nor the veils of the nations can hinder him.   BH01506

"The Greeks have been defeated in a land hard by. But after their defeat they shall defeat their foes in a few years. First and last is the affair with God. And on that day shall the faithful rejoice." Then in the year 625 the Persians were defeated by Heraclius.   ABU1178

The events mentioned in the first part of chapter 16, of Revelation, happened before the coming of the Manifestation. The seven angels signify seven Powers, which will have authority or will rule over the world of existence before the coming of the Manifestation.   ABU0360

At every Manifestation ye shall await God's command, for the command of a previous Manifestation may become forbidden, and what was forbidden may become commanded. God doeth what He willeth. He shall not be asked of His doings, but all shall be asked of all things.  BB00003

Soon will the Jewish people return to the Holy Land, and even in outward appearance, they will be exalted. They will then be so glorified that they would be the object of the enemies' envy. This is naught but a divine decree, and nothing can impede its fulfillment.   ABU2473

In brief, these wanderers have fallen into a world where neither the stones of reproach from ill-wishers have had any effect, nor have the praise and commendation of well-wishers borne any fruit. Fuzuli has said: "The multitude of arrows has made my body like iron."  AB00033

That which was revealed by the Supreme Pen in the Tablet to the Chief has come to pass. Nevertheless, no one became aware of whence this occurred or why it occurred, although after the revelation of the blessed Tablet some people in those kingdoms heard these verses.  BH01226

The day is approaching when the intervening clouds will have been completely dissipated, when the light of the words, "All honor belongeth unto God and unto them that love Him," will have appeared, as manifest as the sun, above the horizon of the Will of the Almighty.  BH05002

This is the news wherewith God's books have given glad tidings aforetime. Read what the All-Merciful has sent down in the Qur'an: "The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds." The Day has come, yet the people are heedless and in manifest loss.   BH05825

I swear by the Sun in the heaven of truth that all that was mentioned and recorded in the divine Books of the past and future hath been made manifest and evident, and the appointed times have come to pass. Yet all are observed to lie dead in the graves of their desires.  BH03044

Have you not read in the holy scriptures that at the consummation of the ages there would dawn a day--the sum total of all past days? This century is the fulfillment of the promised century, the dawn of the appearances of the glorious visions of past prophets and sages.   ABU0641

Then when Thou didst send down the Bayan, all who entered it according to what Thou didst reveal therein from Thy presence, these entered Thy Paradise and delighted in the radiance of Thy countenance, while those who were veiled entered the fire and are tormented therein.   BB00283

Today the True One, exalted be His glory, watches over His servants and handmaidens, and at all times has He remembered them all with a remembrance whose standards shall ere long be raised throughout the world and whose banners shall wave triumphant upon the highest flags.   BH02559

God hath not ordained your religion for you save for the Day of Resurrection. That Day shall be like unto this Day. Therefore render not yourselves as dust, that your Lord may be made manifest. Verily He shall make Himself known unto you, though ye be heedless thereof.  BB00004

But if during your lives ye attain unto that which giveth peace to your hearts without God's good-pleasure, then your knowledge shall be as fire unto your souls. This is God's fire in your lives, and after your death ye shall be tormented therein for as long as God willeth.  BB00003

O people of grace! Ye shall attain unto this grace. Say: Verily, infallibility in the night is naught save the night of the martyrs who call you to the inmost of the inmost while ye follow behind veils, but on the day of the outmost of the outmost ye shall rend those veils.  BB00003

For the people, there must needs be Azerbaijan. Nothing can withstand it... and so forth. And as I heard: In 1259 thou shalt find a Cause whose authority is not like any guardian or prophet-messenger of old, but rather from among the prophets or children of the latter ones.  BB00079

We have manifested Our Self and sent down the verses and informed the servants of what the All-Merciful revealed in the Bayan, that they might turn to Him with radiant hearts and shining faces. But the people heard not what they were commanded, and We found them struck down.  BH04025

Praise be to God! The promises about the Holy Land were fulfilled and the glad-tidings uttered through the tongues of the prophets of God were realized, for the enemies cause the Blessed Perfection to be sent to the Holy Land and to have this residence in the Promised Land.   ABU0740

The time appointed for the nations hath expired, and all the divine promises mentioned in the Holy Books have been fulfilled, and the Law of God hath flowed forth from Zion, and the lands and mountains of Jerusalem have been adorned with the splendors of the light of their Lord.  BH01881

"Fifty years ago Baha'u'llah prophesied:- 'Adrianople shall go out of the hand of the Sultan' and to day that prophecy is fulfilled. This is one of the greatest proofs of the Blessed Perfection that all the prophesies that he has made concerning future events have come to pass."   ABU2586

There are many references in the Bible to Mahomet. In Revelations 12, the woman clothed with the sun with the moon under her feet, represents the Muhammadan religion. The sun and moon are the Turkish and Persian Empires. The twelve stars around her head represent the twelve Imams.  ABU2650

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath come is the Lamp of Guidance among creatures, the Most Great Sign unto all peoples, the Dawning-Place of the Cause amidst humanity, and the Manifestation of Bounty to all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH06598

The Tree proclaimeth and saith: "O people of the earth! The seal of the choice Wine hath been broken, and the Desired One giveth with snow-white hands. Hasten ye unto Him, and be not of them that have turned away from this manifest, resplendent, mighty and all-encompassing bounty."   BH09156

The Most Great Announcement hath come, yet most of the peoples remain heedless...Say: O peoples of the earth! The All-Bountiful hath come, riding upon the clouds, while from His right the Herald of Glory proclaimeth: "O people! This is He Who was promised to you in the Books of old"  BH04504

This is the Day which Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and before Him the Spirit, and before Him He Who conversed with God, made mention of...Observe what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: "The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of all being and all that is to be."  BH04578

This is the announcement wherewith were adorned the scrolls of Adam and the Friend, and that which the All-Merciful revealed unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and unto him who was named Ali before Nabil. Ye were promised this Most Great Name, as attested by the Torah and the Gospel.   BH07701

Read ye the Surih of Ra'is and what was revealed therein, and reflect upon it that ye may become aware of what hath appeared from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Then read ye the Book of the Temple and what was revealed therein concerning matters before their occurrence.   BH07142

All the peoples of the world, throughout the nights and days, beseeched to attain the presence of the Day of God; yet when the Sun of Revelation shone forth and the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree was raised up, all arose in opposition save whom God, the Lord of the worlds, did will.   BH08027

You remember it is prophesied in the Gospel that the New Jerusalem will descend from heaven, and if the supplications of the friends of God should ascend heavenward, and if the lights of God should shine upon it, then you should know that the New Jerusalem had descended upon this city.  ABU1906

In the Shi'i tradition concerning this dispensation it is recorded that knowledge is composed of twenty-seven letters and that the divine messengers of the past from first to last have revealed but two letters; however, when the promised Qa'im comes, He will appear with all twenty-seven.  ABU2329

Know that what was meant by the mention of the Divine Right and His maturity after the passing of nineteen stations in the name of Him Who is Implored for Help is the Manifestation of Truth after the passing of nineteen years at the time of Mustaghath. This and this alone was and is meant.  BH00132

For all will taste of these free gifts before long. They will come from the East and from the West to the Kingdom of God; and even as Christ has foretold this also has come to pass, that some of those who are nearest are cut off, whilst those from a far distance receive these great gifts.   ABU0140

Concerning what was written about the Revelation of John, upon Him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God, it is correct. He has mentioned with utmost clarity, as He says that the New City shall descend from heaven, meaning the New Jerusalem shall descend in Jerusalem, as indeed it did descend.  BH00051

The statement of the Blessed Beauty that "the progeny of Israel shall be freed" was made at a time when the Children of Israel had not yet returned and were in utmost abasement.... However, this blessed statement refers to the believers among the Israelites, meaning those who have believed.  ABU2558

And verily from the beginning of this Cause is a day the measure whereof is, in thy Lord's sight, fifty thousand years, and He shall surely try men therein until the word of thy Lord which was spoken aforetime in a mighty Book shall be made manifest: "Everything shall perish save His face."   BB00200

That noble one was the prince of the righteous and the leader of the free. He offered a prayer on behalf of his progeny, saying: O Lord, make my offspring distinguished, and O Kind One, make my descendants honored throughout the world. This prayer of his was answered and his pain was healed.  AB11487

He hath commanded all who are in the Bayan to be submissive before My countenance and to stand at My door and to acknowledge whatsoever hath been revealed from My presence. To this testifieth that which was sent down from His presence, and every fair-minded and clear-sighted one doth confess it.  BH11892

It is written in the Hadith [Islamic traditions] that cities shall draw nearer to each other. Besides spiritual nearness and communications between the cities of the hearts and friendships between diverse people in the promised Day, how physically close have the cities and countries also become.   ABU2243

Moreover, in the first year of arrival in this land, the Blessed Beauty resided in a house near Muradiyyih, while these servants were in another house... Rather, the purpose was to show that his condition was known in the Tablet wherein not an atom's weight of the deeds of all creation was omitted.  BH00004

Have not the verses been sent down, and have not the evidences shone forth, and hath not the proof been perfected, and hath not the Resurrection come to pass? By My life! That which ye were promised in the Tablets hath been fulfilled, while ye remain behind veils, and be not of them that know.   BH05067

Throughout the world they raised the standard of universal peace and called mankind to love, reconciliation and the unity of the human world. All that was explicitly revealed in the Sacred Tablets fifty years ago has been realized like the sun in the realm of existence and become clear and evident.   AB00237

These holy ones have, moreover, announced that when He Who is the Day Spring of the manifold grace of God manifesteth Himself, all the Prophets and Messengers, including the Qa'im, will gather together beneath the shadow of the sacred Standard which the Promised One will raise. That hour is now come.  BH11780

O God! Through these names, make known the measure of Thy signs, Thy words and Thy tokens, so that none among Thy chosen ones may equate Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest, the Manifestation of Thyself on the Day of Resurrection, with anything on earth equal to His traces which point to none but Thee.  BB00139

He came with the truth and gave glad tidings unto all as commanded by the One Who is the Powerful, the Ancient. And he announced to all this Revelation at whose appearance the Hour was troubled and all who dwell on earth and in heaven were thunderstruck, save whom God willed, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH07516

When thou witnesseth this, know that whatsoever God hath revealed in the Qur'an concerning the Resurrection and the Hour - all of it hath been fulfilled in these years, which are fifty thousand years in thy Lord's sight. And verily the Day of Judgment hath been fulfilled, and all are in a new creation.  BB00046

"In their heavenly books the prophets have spoken of the Day of the Lord, the Last Day, and what they have spoken is all being realized in this day. The Blessed Beauty sixty years ago in some of his tablets promised the Jews that they would come back to the Holy Land and what he said will be realized."  ABU1810

O Letters of Truth! On the Day when God shall present you to Himself, you will not know yourselves, but God will know you as the Letters whom He created aforetime by His command and made you Messengers, Witnesses, Words and Gates, and God will make you after the Day of Resurrection as He made you before.  BB00004

Previously Muslims would write such detailed commentaries and interpretations about "Alif Lam Mim. The Romans have been defeated, and they, after their defeat, will be victorious," but now when they see such knowledge and power of the Ancient Beauty manifest in this Most Great Revelation, they turn away.  ABU2068

All the events that occurred in these years of war were revealed in the divine tablets forty or fifty years ago and were published and distributed throughout all regions of the world, leaving no room for denial by any outsider, as these events were so clearly revealed fifty years before their occurrence.  AB02877

By God! This is the Day of Rising, did ye but know it, and in it hath appeared the Purpose of all mankind, would ye but judge with fairness. Thus hath the light appeared and the fragrance of the All-Merciful hath been wafted throughout the realm of possibility, yet most of the people do not perceive.  BH08595

One asked "Where is the Antichrist and where is the Ass?" Another said "Where is the quaking of the earth with her quaking, and where is her declaring her tidings that Day? And where is the Bridge, and where the Reckoning, and where the Balance, and where the gathering and raising of the dead and the fires?"  AB00547

O people of the Bayan! Have mercy upon yourselves. Do not remain, after Him Whom God shall make manifest, in that which God hath given you aforetime, lest He bear witness against you without guidance and make you like unto those who were given the Book before you. Fear God, then, and unto Him shall ye return.  BB00003

This is that Day concerning which He spoke to the Son of Imran on the Mount of Knowledge, saying: "Lead forth the people from darkness into light and remind them of the days of God." And the Seal of the Prophets gave glad tidings of it, saying: "The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds."   BH04598

Thus Christ says: "From the East and the West, the North and the South mankind shall enter the Kingdom of God but the children of the Kingdom will go out["];- that is, those who swim only on the surface of this sea will be cast off but those who submerge themselves in the depth will become its eternal inmates   ABU2636

And verily He Who sent down the Furqan unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, and established thereby whatsoever He willed in Islam, will assuredly send down the Bayan unto Him Whom ye were promised - your Guide, your Leader, your Mahdi, your Master, and whatsoever names of excellence by which ye make mention of Him.  BB00003

God hath promised in truth that He will show you Him Whom God shall make manifest, and will show Him to you, and will raise you from your resting places, and will fulfill what ye have witnessed in My path aforetime, until He bestoweth upon you that with which ye shall be well-pleased, and above what pleaseth you.   BB00669

This is the Day foretold by the Messenger of God, and before Him by the Spirit and before Him by Him Who came with nine clear signs and was called the Interlocutor in My perspicuous Book. All the Books of the past and the Messengers of God have given the people the glad-tidings of this hallowed, this most exalted Day   BH04572

O Jalil! God willing, thou shalt attain to the most great steadfastness and service to the Cause of the Lord of creation. These are the days that have been mentioned and recorded in all books, scriptures and tablets. The whole world hath been created for this Day, yet all are veiled from it save whom thy Lord willeth.   BH00878

Look ye then upon the third verse of the Surih of Thunder, and ye shall witness. God hath created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and every soul for the day of meeting with its Lord, yet after We have made Our Selves known unto you, ye are not certain of that meeting for which ye were created.  BB00003

Those who will not believe until they have had signs revealed to them, who crave for proof, saying: 'But we want to see the earthquake. If the Promised One is indeed come, the sun should not give his light, the moon should be darkened, and the stars should fall. We await our Promised One till these signs be fulfilled.'   ABU0092

All peoples have awaited and continue to await the days of the Manifestation, beseeching and supplicating with the utmost lowliness and fervor for the presence of the Promised One. Yet when the time arrived and the countenance of the Promised One appeared from the horizon of the heaven of Revelation, all arose in denial   BH07584

My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for having informed Thy servants and revealed unto them beforehand that which later came to pass... The servant beareth witness that Thy word is truth and Thy command is certain, and testifieth that Thou didst foretell all that hath appeared and shall appear unto the Day that hath no end.   BH07471

This notwithstanding the fact that all the Prophets of God, whenever made manifest unto the peoples of the world, have invariably foretold the coming of yet another Prophet after them, and have established such signs as would herald the advent of the future Dispensation. To this the records of all sacred books bear witness.  BH00002

that which thy heart forbiddeth is better than all that thou hast done from the beginning of thy life until now. This shall profit thee on the Day of Resurrection before God, the Lord of all worlds. Say: verily the Cause is nearer than the twinkling of an eye, if ye would but ponder on your ultimate end and final abode  BB00003

O peoples of the earth! By My life, the gate of grace hath been opened, and the Sun of Justice from behind the clouds of tyranny calleth out, saying: "This is the Day of Union, did ye but know it, and this is the Day of Meeting, did ye but perceive it, and this is the Day of remembrance and praise, did ye but understand it."  BH09116

Moreover, be thou assured that this verse sent down from the heaven of the Divine Will - nay, all verses revealed by God - were revealed solely to inform the servants of the days of the next Manifestation in the future Resurrection. God intended none other than He Who shall appear thereafter, and desires naught else but this.  BH04151

Then, when thou art blessed to present thyself before God, thy Lord, on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, exalted be His mention, know that the Command is His Command. Look thou to none save Him and His Command, for all who are in the heavens and on earth and whatsoever lieth between them stand ready at His Command.  BB00080

The raising up of places, in its primary sense, hath been and is through the Word of God. Should He say The places are raised up, through this word it would be evident and manifest to those possessed of vision and the Most Sublime Vision. Every matter, in its first station, its manifestation and elevation is through the Word.  BH00118

Reflect ye upon the Revelation of David. Those who were given the Psalms had been promised unto Moses, yet when God made Him manifest, none believed in Him save those whose essence was the essence of the names of the Psalms therein, and whose outward forms were proofs responding to those who had established themselves for Moses.  BB00005

And He Whom God shall make manifest at the age of thirty, after a thousand years have passed - it cannot be less than this, nor is what hath been decreed what ye imagine. He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden. This is the Sun of the Divine Will - whenever it riseth or setteth by God's leave, it is but one Sun.  BB00094

In bygone ages many holy souls longed and prayed that they might get a glimpse of these days, that they might live in the day of the Lord on Mount Carmel. Now, praise be to God that you have attained, you have circumambulated the Spot of the Supreme Concourse, you have visited the Blessed Tomb of the Herald of the Sun of Reality.  ABU1174

All this We foretold at the time of Our departure from Iraq. Observe how the previous Manifestation informed all peoples of this Most Great Manifestation, even as the Son of Zachariah heralded the Son of Mary to the people, and they emphasized it to such a degree that they said if anyone should speak a verse, none should deny it.   BH01405

When ye hear his mention yet aid Us not in weeping, ye have purchased Joseph, the Truth, for a paltry price - pieces of silver not accounted in the Book with God. Were ye not bound in God's covenant on the day of the Greater Particles concerning the right of Joseph, the Exalted One, to be among those who weep round about the Gate?  BB00002

The Prophets of God draw upon both His boundless universal grace and His particular grace, that is, upon divine revelation and inspiration. They foretell certain events through revelation and inspiration, which are the heavenly splendours, the intimations of the heart, and the scattering rays of the light of the Day-Star of Truth.  AB00689

That which was recorded in the books of old from the Pen of God, the Lord of all beings, hath been made manifest. When that which was hidden was revealed and that which was concealed appeared, the people arose in opposition save those who took refuge in the stronghold of the protection of their Lord, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.   BH07194

I testify that through Thy manifestation that which was recorded in the Books of God, the Lord of all worlds, hath been fulfilled. These are the days which Thy ambassadors, Thy messengers, and Thy chosen ones foretold through Thy word: 'Lead forth the people from darkness into light and give them the glad-tidings of the days of God.'  BH01292

God shall soon make manifest that which hath been concealed from the eyes of them that are veiled, and the Herald of the Spirit shall cry out in the midst of heaven, saying: This is the Day whereon God shall establish Himself upon the throne of victory and seize them that have tyrannized upon the earth - and this is a truth well-known   BH05546

O concourse of creation! Behold then remember what the All-Merciful hath sent down in the Qur'an and in the Books of old concerning this Revelation through which the Speaker of the Mount hath spoken and the Lote-Tree of the furthermost boundary hath called out. By God! He Who was hidden hath come, and He Who was treasured hath appeared   BH06424

Jesus Christ's identity was denied by the people, but the Disciples established His Word. As Jesus Christ came from Heaven in the beginning, so He will come again. In reality, He did not drop down out of Heaven, but was born of Mary and as He came in the first place, so He will come again. Jesus said, "I will come while you are asleep."  ABU1341

Every nation is looking for a Promised One, or indeed, for two Manifestations. Zoroastrians expect two. The Jews expect Elias and Christ. The Mohammedans expect the Mahdi and Christ. The Christians, like the Jews, are also expecting Elias and Christ. Consequently, every religion is expecting two Manifestations, one succeeding the other.  ABU0459

How strange are those who followed falsehood after the fragrance of the Beloved had been diffused throughout the worlds - like those who remain veiled from the Most Holy, Most Exalted Truth by following Siyyid Muhammad Isfahani and his utterances, though he was never aware of the root of the Cause and was perpetually engaged in corruption.  BH00015

Isaiah speaketh and giveth tidings of the mercy of these days, saying: That bringeth good tidings of peace, that publisheth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation, that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! Glory be unto God! Most clearly doth He declare that that day is the day of deliverance, the day of salvation, the day of mercy.  BH02972

All people, with the utmost lowliness and supplication, beseeched the Self-Sufficient, the Exalted, for the attainment of this Day which is mentioned as the Day of God. Yet when the lights of the promised Day dawned from the Dayspring of divine Will, all remained veiled and bereft thereof, save whom thy Lord, the Lord of all worlds, willed.   BH04905

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Exalted Word through which Thou didst adorn the foreheads of Thy favored ones with the crown of victory in Thy days, and by which Thou didst shed the radiance of Thy bounty upon all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth, to ordain for us through Thy Most Sublime Pen what shall profit us in every world of Thy worlds  BB00251

The Book of Names was verily sent down from God, the Lord of the Day of Reckoning. Therein We counseled every one of the Names to be ready for the Day of God, the Lord of all beings. We gave them glad tidings of the presence of God in His days and commanded that none of them should hesitate on that Day which dawned from the horizon of creation.  BH06258

When Jumada al-Ula comes in this year of yours, take heed of what occurs therein and awaken from your slumber for what shall happen in that which follows it. Events will occur in the land of the East causing grief, and groups who have departed from Islam will thereafter overcome Iraq, whose evil deeds will constrict the livelihood of its people.  BB00007

If ye were truthful in your weeping and your mention, how is it that God hath manifested the One ye mention, yet ye weep not for Him? The year of Ha hath passed, while ye remain in your chambers, delighting in what ye possess. Fear ye God and enter into God's religion with truth, and fear ye God and enter into God's religion with sincerity.  BB00003

The Zoroastrians, who were very numerous throughout Persia, notwithstanding all the calamities and sufferings inflicted upon them by the Mohammedans, would not accept the teachings of Mohammed, but they say that their books plainly indicate the coming of the Manifestation at this time, and many of them have accepted this religion because of this fact.   ABU1697

Every obscure mystery in the realm of creation hath been laid bare, and now, in this Day of Revelation, Thy Beauty doth shed its radiance with all-subduing potency upon the whole earth, shining with its all-encompassing power over king and subject alike. All that He foretold came to pass, His predictions were confirmed, and His warnings were proven true.   AB00045

The Blessed Beauty made mention of Khorasan, saying that this blessed Cause would be spread there. Everyone thought that the Blessed One's intention was Khorasan itself, but later when the grace of the Blessed Beauty was directed entirely toward 'Ishqabad, they realized that was the intended place. Subsequently, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was established there.  ABU2989

As revealed regarding the King of Paris while in Adrianople: "We heard from thee a word thou didst speak when asked by the Russian Emperor concerning the reason for the war...We testify that it was not the cry that awakened thee, but rather thy own passions...Soon shall confusion befall thy realm and sovereignty slip from thy grasp in punishment for thy deeds."   BH01989

The Temple of Jerusalem was rebuilt in the 20th year of the reign of Artaxerzes II King of Persia, which corresponds to 299 years of the time when Rome was built... Jesus lived on earth thirty-four years. 490 minus 34 is 456 from the time when the temple was built to Christ. 1844 plus 456 equals 2500 years, and died at the time of the Bab, Wednesday, May 23, 1844.   ABU0747

O Mahdi! The Promised One hath come and the Herald hath proclaimed: "The Kingdom is God's, the Lord of the Day of Judgment." Among the people are those who have turned away, those who have denied, those who have pronounced judgment against Us without clear proof or illuminating Book, and those who have forsaken the world out of their longing for the Most Great Name.  BH00320

Concerning Mr. Phillips about whom you had written - any person who has fairness will testify that whatever flowed from the Pen of the Covenant was destined to occur, just as the events in Iran, both during the time of despotism and during the first constitutional period, were explicitly foretold by the Pen of the Covenant and were fulfilled exactly after some time.  AB11352

This is one of those tidings that were ordained in the Kingdom of Destiny and were later revealed and made manifest after the completion of its appointed time. Observe the previous Tablets that thou mayest be well informed and be convinced that with Him is the knowledge of all things, and the knowledge which none hath known save God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH11715

At the beginning of arrival in the Most Great Prison in the military barracks, His blessed word, exalted be He: "The River Jordan has joined with the Most Great Sea" etc. Although for this blessed verse which was sent down from the heaven of divine will there are many meanings, yet one manifestation from the sun of its meanings dawned after the acquisition of this land  BH07445

Assuredly the hand of divine power shall set the world aright, and whatsoever weakness and poverty are witnessed shall surely be transformed into might, power and wealth. By Him Who splits the seed and creates the soul, the stations of steadfast and tranquil souls shall be made manifest in such wise that every tongue shall utter "Blessed be God, the Lord of the worlds!"  BH00176

The Book of Daniel fixes the period between the rebuilding of Jerusalem and the martyrdom of Christ at seventy weeks, for it is through the martyrdom of Christ that the sacrifice is ended and the altar destroyed. This prophecy thus refers to the advent of Christ. [continues with detailed analysis of Daniel's prophecies and their fulfillment through multiple paragraphs]   AB00030

The plan of God is a wondrous thing. Over the course of many long years, He has taken this Cause here and there, and drawn it in the end to such a spot as this, all to fulfil the prophecies of ages past. It is inevitable that God will clearly manifest the highway He has predicted through His Prophets; He will not allow a single word of those prophecies to go unrealized.  ABU3716

You expressed gratitude for humanity's deliverance from the soul-consuming flames of war, and that all the explicit promises recorded in the divine tablets of revelation have, praise be to God, come to pass. This is indeed true, and in previous cycles such explicit prophecies of future events were never recorded in the divine books. This is unique to this wondrous cycle.  AB00114

All these Prophets and the Chosen Ones also longed to witness such a Day as this. They spoke of the Coming of the Lord and the appearance of the Lord of Hosts. They affirmed that the Tabernacle of the Lord would be raised on Mount Carmel, beneath which the representatives of the Most Great Peace would assemble and from whence they would bestow a New Order upon the world.   ABU1125

This, after he had called the servants in all days with the loudest call, taken from them the covenant of God's Word, and heralded unto them His meeting, until he sacrificed his life for love of His glorious and wondrous Self. But when the veil was rent asunder and the Most Great Word appeared, they objected to It, saying: "It hath transgressed that which John commanded."   BH00195

Throughout days and nights they yearned and hoped for the appearance of the Lord of all beings, to such extent that they would implore His presence from the Lord of Oneness with lamentation and weeping. Yet when the veils of glory were rent asunder by the finger of power and the breezes of the dawn of manifestation wafted, all turned away heedless save whom thy Lord willed.   BH05433

The Emperor of France did not send any reply, then a second epistle was sent to him. It was addressed to Napoleon the Third, saying, "I wrote you an epistle before, and I summoned you to a cause, but you heeded it not...Soon it shall be manifested!" Such was the arraignment which was sent. It has been published and sent abroad...And all that he wrote or declared came to pass.   ABU1415

Soon will the All-Merciful place you upon the path of the Fire and question you heavily concerning the mention of Our servant. Not one of you but shall approach it, pausing without right, and this has been decreed by God as an ordained judgment in truth. Then God will deliver those who were God-fearing, leaving the wrongdoers therein - a decree from the Book fulfilled in truth.  BB00002

He said, "Am I also mentioned in it?" He replied, "Yes, you too are mentioned in it." He asked, "By allusion or explicitly?" He replied, "Explicitly." He said, "I have not seen any mention of myself in it." He replied, "It is there where it says: 'She said: I seek refuge from thee with the Beneficent God, if thou art God-fearing.'" He became very angry but did not express anything  ABU1993

These events took place only for the fulfillment of the prophecies of the prophets. God's ways are wonderful. For 2,000 years, he has made the Cause travel here and there, until it reached the spot in which it would fulfill all the prophecies. God will, unquestionably, declare openly the Prince of Peace, of whom he spoke, through the prophets, and he will not erase a single letter.  ABU1526

In any case, the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him, were proclaimed in America, Britain, France and Germany, in great assemblies and major churches, and were explained and expounded. Thus was the proof completed for all. Since they neither accepted nor implemented what was explicitly mentioned in the Tablets, that which was to occur came to pass.  AB00177

I bear witness that the Manifestation of Him Who is Promised is the Point of Existence in the unseen realm of eternity. When time reacheth unto the Mustaghath or a letter before it, then will He appear in truth, though the idolaters be averse. At that time shall the trumpet be sounded, and all who are in the heavens and earth shall swoon away, save a numbered few of thy Lord's chosen ones.  BH00181

The second proof of the Truth of the Revelation of the Blessed Perfection is contained in the enunciation or prophecies. Those which foreshadowed the former revelations - of Moses, Jesus and Mahomet - were only revealed in one great Book each. For instance, the proofs of Christ's coming were only found in the Bible and even these statements were very short and the Jews disagreed over them.   ABU0650

"The holiness of this ground was thus prefigured by the Lord thousands of years ago, Knowing well that someday, towards the consummation of ages, He will make Himself manifest in this land to all the people of the world. [...] We must consider it a great privilege that we are allowed to live here in these latter days and see with our own eyes the gradual fulfillment of all the prophecies."   ABU0512

And verily the tradition in its outward meaning indicates that from the beginning of the numerical value of Alif-Lam-Mim until the completion of the numerical value of Alif-Lam-Mim-?ad, with the inclusion of part of the numerical value of Alif-Lam-Mim-Ra, emerges the decree of the day on which the Messenger of God arose and the day on which the Remnant of God will arise to fulfill His Cause.  BB00045

The Books of the world's peoples have given glad tidings of the appearance of the Most Great Name, and all the Messengers and near ones have spoken of His mention and uttered His praise...Isaiah says: "The everlasting Father and eternal God shall come." The Spirit (Christ) says: "The Comforter and the Perfecter and Spirit of Truth shall come." The Qur'an calls out His Name and makes all aware.  BH04525

These shall abide in that Paradise until the time We shall manifest the Manifestation of Our Self. Then shall these souls be tested. If ye believe in Him Whom God shall make manifest, your Lord, then shall ye be numbered among the Tree of Affirmation, presenting yourselves before God, your Lord. But should ye be veiled by aught, your affirmation shall be changed to negation in the Book of God.  BB00005

God sent down the Furqan (Quran) and was patient with those who were given the Furqan for one thousand two hundred and seventy years until they filled a portion of the earth with those who believed in the Furqan. And therein were established five sovereignties whose names were struck upon coins. God manifested what He had promised through Muhammad, the Messenger of God, in one of their kingdoms.  BB00003

Then He added, And what Tablets they are! Tablets that foretell the ultimate fate of every person. You saw what became of the blessed Tablet addressed to the sovereign of Iran, you saw what became of the blessed Tablet addressed to the Ottoman Sultan, you saw what became of the blessed Tablet addressed to Napoleon the king of France, you saw what became of the blessed utterance regarding Germany.  ABU2454

O Ramadan! The month of Ramadan hath come, whose mention the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an, wherein fasting was ordained for them that have believed in God, the Lord of the Great Throne. Its appointed time hath passed away by Our decree, and the Day which was promised in all the Books of God, and in the Qur'an - the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds - hath come.  BH06601

How many were the servants who sought the appearance of the Truth, glorified be His majesty, and who in the nights and days implored and begged in utmost lowliness and supplication for His presence. Yet when the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the Divine Will, all were thunderstruck and bewildered, save a few whose faces are inscribed in God's Book as the letters of the countenance.   BH07765

Verily God shall roll up the heaven of your religion on the Day of Resurrection even as scrolls are rolled up into an exalted and lofty scroll. That is the Day whereon He Whom God shall make manifest will say: O people of the Bayan! We created you from a beginning that hath no beginning, sustained you, favored you, and gave you life until the time We made Ourselves known unto you through Our signs  BB00003

All future events are evident and visible to the eyes of the holy Manifestations. He illustrated this by narrating the historical events from the digging of ditches to the victory of Islam over the treasuries of Anushirvan and Khusraw. The hypocrites, who disbelieved in the promises of Muhammad in their hearts, saw these victories and cried out: 'This is that which God and His Messenger have promised us.'  ABU1438

All in the world, both female and male, were awaiting the days of the Manifestation, yet when the divine Day appeared and the Most Great Orb rose from the horizon of bounty, all became occupied with their own vain imaginings and turned away from the Truth, exalted and mighty be He - save those souls who rent asunder the veils of glory and turned toward the horizon of the Cause of the beloved and eternal One.  BH09274

"By God! There hath appeared that which had never appeared before, and the Speaker of Sinai, Who was promised in the Books of God, the Lord of Lords, hath spoken. The story of the Fire hath returned in the Sinai of the righteous and calleth out with the most exalted call between earth and heaven: 'The Promise hath come, and the Lord of Names hath appeared with the hosts of revelation and the standards of signs!'"  BH03259

Know ye that He Who hath been named in the Bayan as "Him Whom God shall make manifest" shall come with truth in the next Resurrection, and God is the guarantor of this. He shall fulfill His promise and shall come on the day when the Lote-Tree of the Bayan shall be raised to a lofty and glorious height. Then shall the Bird of Eternity warble and the Dove of Holiness coo, and God shall come in overshadowing clouds.   BH00782

Now is the dawn of the morn of Truth. Those who live in the depths of the dark ravines and deep valleys do not see the first glimpses of the rising, glorious sun. Hence they cry out: We do not see the sunshine; we do not feel its warmth. But when the sun ascends to the zenith of the heavens, and stands at the meridian, then the valleys and ravines will be flooded with sunshine and even the blind will feel its heat.   ABU1562

The Resurrection hath dawned, and the Hour hath struck, and the Path hath been drawn straight, and the Balance hath been set up, and all upon the earth have been gathered together. The light hath shone forth, and radiance floodeth Mount Sinai, and a gentle wind bloweth from over the gardens of the Ever-Forgiving Lord; the sweet breaths of the spirit are passing by, and those who lay buried in the grave are rising up.  AB00444

From these resplendent verses it is clear what hath happened and what shall come to pass. And similarly in the Most Holy Book was revealed: O Spot that art situate on the shores of the two seas! The throne of tyranny hath, verily, been established upon thee, and the flame of hatred hath been kindled within thee, in such wise that the Concourse on high and they who circle around the Exalted Throne have wailed and lamented.  BH00292

In a letter I wrote, "Soon will the East and the West embrace each other like two lovers." Some of the lukewarm believers laughed [at this sentiment]. I responded, "It is revealed in the Qur'an, 'Though ye scoff at us now, we will scoff at you hereafter even as ye scoff at us. In the end ye shall know.'" Praise be God that now, not long after that event, great victories have been won [for the Cause] in the East and the West   ABU1748

This telegram confirmed for the honored Nuri'd-Din a prediction of the Master made two years earlier during His conversation with Haji Muhammad-Isma`ili-Yazdi. ... After jesting with the Haji some more, `Abdu'l-Baha explained the meaning of the vision: The standard of the Faith has been raised in America. A number in that country have embraced the Faith and will come here soon for pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrine of Baha'u'llah.  ABU3690

Now hath another Return appeared, and the Primal Beauty hath been made manifest in the garment of the Most Great, Most Glorious Name. The greatest distinction and most perfect separation hath been firmly established between the people of this blessed, most mighty, most great, most glorious Name - who are the riders upon the ruby-coloCrimson Ark of the crimson grade - and all others who stand removed from this vast, most great ocean.  BH04245

First, that in the year Nine thou wast vouchsafed the presence of God, concerning which the Primal Point gave all this glad-tiding in His words: "And in the year Nine ye shall be blessed with attaining the presence of God." Likewise thou wert honored with the divine exposition regarding the blessed verse "all food," and this is that which the Primal Point gave glad-tidings of: "And in the year Nine ye shall comprehend all good."   BH04119

Await ye then the Days of God, for verily they shall return in this earthly life and shall prostrate themselves before God. They shall deliver the messages of their Lord from whence they know not. And when the appointed time decreed in the Book hath come to pass, God shall raise them from the resting-places of their souls. Then shall ye be convinced of God's Word within your own souls, and all creation shall attain unto certitude.  BB00004

The illustrious Shaykh began to invite the people to anticipate the advent of God's revelation and the blazing of the Fire of Sinai. He proclaimed, in his writings and in his lessons, that the dawn was fast approaching and that the appearance of the promised Manifestation was imminent. Thus did he seek to instil receptivity in the hearts of the people and admonish them to await day and night the advent of the divine Manifestation.  AB00046

The Point of the Bayan informed all who are in the realm of possibility that He is the One Who speaks in all things "Verily I am God, there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Bountiful." Yet when the Sun of the Word dawned from the horizon of the Bayan of the Lord of Names, all who were in the Bayan turned away from Him save whom God, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, willed. Say: There hath appeared from My presence that which He foretold   BH07494

Consider the blessed verse, His exalted Word: "When the heaven shall be cleft asunder." People still await the cleaving of the heaven, while this heaven mentioned in the Qur'an has meanings which none knows save those whom God, the Mighty, the Bestower, has assisted. They have taken the literal meaning of what was revealed in the Books and remained veiled from its Revealer on the day of His most great Manifestation with power and majesty.  AB00021

The revolution now rampant in Persia was foretold by the Blessed Perfection forty years ago. Read the Book of the Kings. It is also to be found in the Book of Laws. And this prophecy was made when Tihran was in the utmost quietude and the government of Nasiri'd-Din Shah was well established. It is clearly stated thus: 'O Tihran! There will be a great upheaval in thee. The government will be affected and the disturbance will affect all Persia.'   ABU0247

When the nine had passed, He was manifested with this Name unto all things, even as thou didst witness how in that year the revelation of the Divine Unity was both hidden yet visible, and manifest yet concealed. None recognized it save whom God wished through His grace that dominates both the unseen and the visible realms, until the years of respite had elapsed. Then did God lift the veil of light and made manifest that which had been concealed.   BH10386

The deniers of the Bayan in these days cite the previous verses to prove their own truth while they oppose and war against their Revealer with the swords of rejection, even as the Beloved of all possibility, the Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - hath foretold, stating in many places that none shall remain, and saying that it is as though He seeth all arise to war against that Beauty of Oneness, as ye now witness.  BH04610

Cause Thou to grow, O God, the Tree of the Bayan until the Day of Him Whom Thou shalt make manifest, and make to appear, O God, at the head of every sixty-six years, a temple from among the temples of the Unity, that they may raise up Thy paths in the Bayan and take what Thou hast ordained from Thy dawning-places in the Bayan until the Day when Thou shalt illumine Thy heaven and Thy earth and all that lieth between them through the manifestation [...]   BB00660

Verily God will cause the earth to swallow you if ye believe not in Him Whom God shall make manifest. Say: Verily God will cause the ground of your piety to be swallowed up if ye be not convinced of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Do ye not consider those who were given the Book before you? They had built up their land in their religion, but when they turned away from the Manifestation of God thereafter, God caused their land to be swallowed up.  BB00003

These past and succeeding events were all foretold, to their very detail, by the Pen of the Covenant some time before they occurred and they appeared thereafter, one by one, in the visible world. Even the recent events, and the decline of despotism, and the collapse of totalitarian regimes, were openly declared in the past. The friends in Mashhad were even told in writing that disorder was spreading from Azerbaijan to Khurasan, and thus it came to pass.  AB12811

Be thou assured through thy Lord's grace and thank Him for having prepared and raised thee to exalt His Word among the people, to establish proof and evidence for the people of understanding of the appearance of the Promised One on the appointed Day, of the occurrence of the Great Event at the praised station, and of thy Lord's manifest revelation--fulfilling what was promised in the ancient scriptures: "And thy Lord shall come and the angels rank on rank."  AB00243

Then will the Herald of the Spirit call out from the Throne of Immortality, and the Dove of Holiness will warble from a near station, and the Cock of the Throne will crow, and the Peacock of Oneness will appear adorned with a wondrous glory. Thereupon all who are in the heavens shall swoon from fear of the Command, and all who are on earth shall be shaken, except such as have detached themselves unto God and were of those who are well-assured in His Cause.   BH06499

That conversation took place fifty years ago, and I have just received a letter from Teheran from a Bahai who writes: "The palace that was occupied by Mirza Khan, who was prime minister at the time of Baha'o'llah's exile, is now the home of a Bahai friend...This meeting occurred in the very room in which the prime minister had made his great prophecy. And so it has come to pass. His family has perished, and the power of the cause of God has become evident!"  ABU0980

God hath caused sedition and calamities to arise among those who have disbelieved, that there might be manifested that which He revealed in the Surih of Ra'is. Read ye it, that ye may be assured that with Him is the knowledge of all things in a perspicuous Book. We informed the servants of that which was to come, but when there came to pass and was made manifest that which the Self-Subsisting had foretold after the Qa'im, they denied God, the Lord of all worlds   BH08917

He made no mention of the owners of treasures and riches and cities and regions and ranks and thousands, but made mention of the owner of a camel. All matters depend upon and are suspended by the utterance of the All-Merciful. He bestowed such honor and favor upon the she-camel of Salih that mention of it has flowed and been revealed from the Most Exalted Pen in most of the Books, and likewise the servants upon the pulpits speak in its praise and glorification.   BH05588

Now concerning the verse in Daniel, the interpretation whereof thou didst ask, namely, Blessed is he who cometh unto the thousand and three hundred and thirty five days. These days must be reckoned as solar and not lunar years. For according to this calculation a century will have elapsed from the dawn of the Sun of Truth, then will the Teachings of God be firmly established upon the earth, and the Divine Light shall flood the world from the East even unto the West.  AB03835

As to the matter of the thousand years, this thousand years has been interpreted as the period from the end of the line of Holy Imams in the Quran until the declaration of the Bab, which was indeed a thousand years. Though this interpretation is correct and this is what transpired, in truth it foretells the Blessed Manifestation, and this thousand years is the thousand years that is mentioned in the Sacred Tablets. These events will occur within this thousand years.  AB07208

Furthermore it has become evident to all humanity that 'Abdu'l-Baha's talks in Europe and America were the very truth when He cried out that the continent of Europe was like an arsenal and powder magazine, a storehouse of explosive materials dependent on a single spark to detonate and throw the earth into turmoil... And likewise, whatever was revealed in the Tablets of Baha'u'llah fifty years ago, published and spread throughout the world, that too has been fulfilled.   AB12110

Miss Boylan said that while in Thonon (Switzerland), last summer, she asked Abdul-Baha, about the work the Mashrekol-Azkar, feeling that it was extremely necessary to push this work and get the Temple built as rapidly as possible, and that he must come to build it, in fulfilment of the prophecy that the Lord would come to rebuild the Temple which had been torn down. Miss Boylan said Abdul-Baha replied that he had fulfilled that prophecy by building the Tomb of the Bab.   ABU2556

Today is a most blessed day. It is hallowed and auspicious. It is the dawning of the lights of guidance. It is the source and origin of God's Cause. It is the effulgence of the Sun of Truth. It is the Day of the blast of the trumpet and the sounding of the bugle. The events of this day are most momentous, though their reality is known only to them that are endowed with insight, and though the honor of this day is hidden from the people, even though it is the first blast.  ABU0345

Ponder the address "O Spot that art situate between the two seas", and also briefly note the address to Tehran, and review the address to the banks of the Rhine, and compare them with the events that occurred - how all these warnings were fulfilled in a brief period. Is it possible through natural intelligence and sagacity to uncover such momentous events in such a short time one after another, and can the occurrence of these events in so few days be imagined? No, by God!  AB00060

Among the prophecies concerning the blessed Manifestation in the Book of Daniel, chapter twelve, verse eleven: And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days. Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days. But go thou thy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest, and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.  AB00038

In the Book of Joel it is recorded: For the day of the Lord is great and very terrible; who can abide it? And likewise it states: The Lord shall roar from Zion, and utter His voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake. Jerusalem is Akka, the Holy Land and its environs, and Zion is a place in these lands, as well as a place in Jerusalem. From this valley the divine Call has been raised, and the throne of divine Justice has been established in this land.  BH00125

Praise be to God that whatsoever flowed from Abdul-Baha's pen one and two years ago has in these days been entirely fulfilled...these words issued from Abdul-Baha's pen: that this glory would be transformed into utter abasement, and this might and power would be converted into complete subjugation. Palace would become prison, and the height of the moon would end in the depth of the well. No laughter or merriment would remain, but rather the wailing of lamentation would be raised.  AB10880

The whole world awaited the Day of God and, with perfect humility and submissiveness, beseeched God, glorified be His majesty, night and day for the appearance of the Promised One. But when the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of manifestation and the Preserved Tablet was sent down from the heaven of loving-kindness, all clung to their own idle fancies and turned away from the Sovereign of certitude, save those who came unto God with an illumined, believing, and steadfast heart.   BH04691

The hidden secret hath been revealed and that which was recorded in God's Books hath come to pass. Blessed is he who hath attained insight and the one who hath heard this wondrous, upraised call. Shatter the idols of vain fancies and idle imaginings in thy Lord's name, and give the glad-tidings to the people of this Cause, through which, when it appeared, the pillars were shaken and all things gave utterance. The Promised One hath come - the Kingdom is God's, the Powerful, the Almighty!  BH08994

The Day when the earth and the confines of heaven shall be rent asunder. That is the earth of divine knowledge, not this earthly plane, and likewise that heaven, not this visible firmament. Dost thou not see how the earth of essential bodies hath been rent asunder, and there hath emerged from it His signs in the temples of His loved ones, and likewise the earth of souls, and the earth of spirits, and the heaven of hearts? This is what God hath desired from time immemorial and forevermore.  BB00506

In previous Dispensations, there was but one allusion to the subsequent Manifestation; for example, in the Qur'an there is one allusion. In the traditions, the Prophet said to Imam 'Ali: "The Mahdi will come and He will fill the earth with justice, and He is of thy progeny" - this is an allusion. Christ speaks of the "Spirit of Truth" - the Christians say it is the Holy Spirit. But the Bab, night and day, made mention of "Him Whom God shall make manifest," placing no conditions whatsoever.   ABU1986

O servant present! The one truth which that heedless and atheistic sect possessed was their saying that when the Qa'im appears, He will speak a word from which the chiefs of the earth - that is, the most exalted of the world's people - will flee and avoid. This single word We verify. Yet I swear by the Sun of the horizon of utterance that until now that word hath not appeared, and whosoever after hearing it remaineth steadfast, he is one with whom all the peoples of the world cannot compare.   BH00173

Jesus said in the Gospels "After Me shall come the Paraclete". The Christians claim that this means the Holy Spirit which came after Christ and abode in His disciples. But if this is true, why, after 600 years, did one come claiming to be the Paraclete? When Mohammed brought forth His claim a great multitude of the disciples of Christ, viz., the Christians, believed in Him as the Comforter mentioned in St. John xvi, 13. In the Bible all the prophecies of Jesus Christ were fulfilled in His Coming.   ABU1146

"The utterance of the Blessed Beauty, that the descendants of Israel shall become dear, was made at a time when the people of Israel were still in the utmost degradation and before they had returned. He uttered these things in order that the glance of providence would surround them, so that they might progress, deliver themselves from humiliation and return to this holy land. That is why, day by day, they became dear and returned to the holy land. These things are all through the power of the blessed Word."  ABU1420

Verily the Empire of the Persian Monarchy is conquered and their countries subdued...Verily the Empire of Rome and its Emperors are vanquished and their forces defeated. I see with my own eyes these events coming to pass...Many years passed over this notable prophecy; Mohamad passed away from this life and the Khalif-generals conquered many countries and established the religion of Islam. The Arabian Army defeated the forces of Persia and the palaces and treasures of the Monarch of Iran fell into their hands.   ABU0582

...all that was foretold regarding the cawing of the cawers and the claims of the false ones, and whatsoever hath been revealed from the Supreme Pen, shall assuredly come to pass. Recite ye the Suriy-i-Ra'is, and likewise the Tablet to the King of Paris which is part of the blessed Suriy-i-Haykal, and also the Tablet of Fu'ad which was revealed specifically for one of the friends. This Tablet was revealed when Fu'ad Pasha, who was the Foreign Minister of Turkey, had returned to his post and had caused the recent upheaval and the exile from the Land of Mystery to 'Akka. There were two who were chiefs of all after the Sultan: one Fu'ad Pasha and one 'Ali Pasha. Sometimes one would be Grand Vizier and the other Foreign Minister, and sometimes vice versa. In that Tablet He saith, exalted be His grandeur: "Soon will We dismiss the one who was like unto him and will lay hold on their chief who ruleth the land, and I am the Mighty, the Compelling." Likewise, observe in the Most Holy Book concerning the Point between the two seas, which referreth to Constantinople, for on one side is the White Sea and on the other the Black Sea.  In brief, all that hath streamed from the Supreme Pen hath come to pass, and the other prophecies contained in the Tablets shall all be fulfilled.  BH00388

For example, the Bab in the Ahsanu'l-Qisas states: "O Our Most Great Master..." to the end of the verse. This is communication. They thought at first this address was to the Qa'im of the family of Muhammad, but later it became known that the Bab Himself was the Qa'im, by the Bab's own declaration. In short, it is evident that all the addresses in the Ahsanu'l-Qisas are to the Blessed Beauty. If one has fairness, no doubt remains. It was accepted by all that there was a Person in the days of the Bab - who that Person was.  ABU1834

When in accordance with His instructions they were digging a trench, they came upon a boulder and were unable to dig further. His Holiness grew perturbed and with His staff hit the rock, proclaiming, "Verily, we have vanquished the sovereign of Constantine!" Once more He tapped the rock, announcing, "Verily, we have vanquished the king of Kasraw!" The companions were perplexed, and the lukewarm munafiqin were quietly ridiculing and mocking Him. However, it was not long until His promises were fulfilled and Islam stood victorious.   ABU1493

"Consider the heedless souls who all acknowledge and confess that the True One, exalted be His glory and greatness, will appear either in His Own Person or through the Manifestation of His Cause, and the divine Books bear witness to this truth. He saith: 'On the day when thy Lord shall come, or some of the signs of thy Lord shall come,' and in another place He saith: 'And thy Lord shall come and the angels rank on rank,' and many similar utterances have appeared from the Daysprings of divine revelation and are recorded in the Books."   BH03704

"These words of Christ were addressed to the Jews and Pharisees. By coming in the Name of the Father, Christ meant He came with the Divine Attributes and Perfections of GOD, but still the Jews did not accept Him though they were waiting for the Promised One to come and establish His Kingdom. They did not see that the prophecy was being fulfilled in Christ, because they were waiting for a great victorious material kingdom to be established on earth, and the Messiah was to be one who possessed endless wealth and sovereign earthly power"  ABU1878

And they have no life except what begins from the fire and unto it they shall return. O all things, from the beginning that hath no beginning unto the end that hath no end, ye worship Me, then ye believe with certitude in the signs of God from your Lord, then ye turn unto Him through His names, then ye act according to what He hath ordained by night and by day. This is what profiteth you in every Revelation; therefore weary not yourselves, for verily the essence of your religion is but one word, would that ye believe in it with certitude.  BB00003

Then he said: "The certain answer is not permitted. But ye shall surely know its tidings after a time." Then came this blessed verse: "This is naught but a Reminder to the worlds" - that is, the one asked about is but the Great Remembrance of God, and "ye shall surely know its tidings" means what He will inform and announce "after a time" - that is, after the year sixty-eight corresponding to the numerical value of "?in" (time), for after year sixty-eight comes year sixty-nine, and this is the year of the manifestation of the Ancient Beauty   AB11685

Among these is what was revealed in the Surih of Fu'ad at the beginning of imprisonment. His words, exalted be His glory: "Soon will We dismiss the one who was like him and will lay hold on their prince who ruleth the land, and I am the Mighty, the Compelling." What was revealed in this blessed verse came to pass, as most have heard that after the one like him was seized, God, the Mighty, the Powerful, seized the prince. And He seized this prince in such a manner that all souls were astonished. God, the Most High, the Most Great, spoke the truth.   BH00217

The Book of Revelation fixes the advent of the Promised One after forty-two months. The Prophet Daniel specifies three times and a half, which is also forty-two months or twelve hundred and sixty days. Another passage of the Revelation of John directly states twelve hundred and sixty days, and it is explicitly indicated in the Bible that each day signifies one year. Nothing could be clearer than this agreement of the prophecies with each other. The Bab appeared in the year A.H. 1260, which is the starting point of the calendar followed by all Muslims.   AB00061

Consider that the Bab declared that the blast of the trumpet, the sounding of the bugle, the shining forth of the light, the passing of the darksome night, the resurrection and gathering, the reckoning, the bridge and the balance, the punishment, the quaking of the earth and the bringing forth of its burdens, the revealing of its tidings - in brief, all the events of the Great Resurrection and the occurrences of the Mighty Catastrophe - took place and were fulfilled in the twinkling of an eye, and thy Lord came with the angels rank on rank became manifest.  AB01525

When We manifested the Point of the Bayan, there were in Islam six monarchs, all of whom were in the earth and all were believers in the Qur'an, and all were awaiting the appearance of the Point of the Bayan, and all were anticipating the manifestation of God, supplicating night and day. And if they were asked what proof they possessed, they would say: We have no manifest proof from the Qur'an except that we were guided by it. We manifested the Point of the Bayan with that same proof, and His manifestation was the manifestation of that which they were promised.  BB00034

What Baha'u'llah has performed was seen by the eyes. When Baha'u'llah was under chains He sent tablets to the kings. He admonished Napoleon Bonaparte severely. What he said was fulfilled. Likewise, the recent movements in the capital of Persia, Teheran, were mentioned forty years ago. Those tablets were printed then and distributed --a matter of record forty years ago. While in prison Baha'u'llah sent a tablet to Abdul Majid, father of the present Shah, arraigning him severely, telling him he would be dethroned. All that was foretold has come to pass, literally.   ABU2369

This is that Announcement which all heavenly Books have foretold - in one place mentioned as the City that shall descend from heaven, in another referred to as Zion, in yet another as the New Jerusalem, and in other books as the Everlasting God and the Eternal Father. This is the Day of the Lord, the Day of God, the Promised Day, the Day of Resurrection, the Hour, the Sure Day, the Striking Day, the Day of the Trumpet, the Day of the Bugle, the Day of the Cry, and the Day of Sinai - that is, the Day in which He Who conversed on Sinai speaks forth and gives utterance.  BH00809

"Soon after the ascension of the Blessed Beauty I wrote: Erelong ye shall see the banner of the Covenant Hoisted over the world...Some of the ignorant scorned us, saying, 'How can the East and the West be illumined with the light of the Cause and the whole world be perfumed by the sweet fragrance of the Word of God?' Now behold how this great union has come about and how the hearts of the people of the East and the West have been enlightened with this manifest light. The Blessed Tree has taken firm root in the earth and the signs of its greatness have encompassed all regions."  ABU2133

At one time during His migration journey, while surrounded by enemies who were exerting their utmost in reducing the believers and in this regard were succeeding, the Prophet Muhammad ordered a moat to be dug so they could hide therein. As they dug, they came upon a large boulder that they found themselves unable to remove. With His stick the Prophet tapped on the rock and said, "Kasraw is conquered!" Once more He tapped on the rock and proclaimed, "Constantine is conquered!" The lukewarm companions were puzzled, but later witnessed the truth of those words and testified to its veracity.   ABU1995

Indeed God's ways are mysterious and unsearchable. What outward relation exists between Shiraz and Teheran, Bagdad and Constantinople, Adrianople and Acca and Haifa! God worked patiently step by step through these various cities according to his own definite, eternal plan - so that the prophecies and predictions as foretold by the prophets may become fulfilled. This golden thread of promise concerning the Messianic Millennium is running through the Bible and it was so destined that God in its own good time will cause its appearance. Not even a single word will be left meaningless or unfulfilled.   ABU2955

Indeed God's ways are mysterious and unsearchable. What outward relation exists between Shiraz and Teheran, Bagdad and Constantinople, Adrianople and Acca and Haifa! God worked patiently step by step through these various cities according to his own definite, eternal plan - so that the prophecies and predictions as foretold by the prophets may become fulfilled. This golden thread of promise concerning the Messianic Millennium is running through the Bible and it was so destined that God in its own good time will cause its appearance. Not even a single word will be left meaningless or unfulfilled.   ABU1109

Among the passages wherein mention is made of His Holiness Ahmad in the Gospel is the sixteenth chapter of John, from the seventh to the fifteenth verse, wherein He speaketh in most eloquent terms and clearest references. This is the text that is recorded and set down in the Gospel of John from the tongue of Christ, where He saith: Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you. And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment.  AB00173

And verily He - may my spirit and all who dwell in the kingdoms of command and creation be a sacrifice for Him - appeared at a time when the condition of creation was at the station described by God, exalted be His glory: Then We developed it into another creation. So blessed be God, the Best of creators. Indeed, on the first day of the new creation, people's understanding was at the stage of a drop of seed, and all progressed in the first pinnacle through the ranks of the manifestations of the Prophets and Messengers, until the structure of existence was perfected and the wisdom of the greater world emerged.  BB00014

Soon will the land of Mystery and what is beside it be changed, and will pass out of the hands of the King, and commotions will appear, and the voice of lamentation will be raised, and the evidences of mischief will be revealed on all sides, and confusion will spread by reason of that which hath befallen these captives at the hands of the hosts of oppression. The course of things will be altered, and conditions will become so grievous that the very sands on the desolate hills will moan, and the trees on the mountain will weep, and blood will flow out of all things. Then wilt thou behold the people in sore disturbance.  BH00008

Enoch prophecied of the coming of Baha'o'llah in Jude chapter 1, verse 14. The whole chapter 30 of Isaiah of the coming of Baha'o'llah especially verse 26, where the Son shall be as the Father and the Father shall be perfect in the sevenfold light of the seven cycles. Joel Chapter 2, verse 1: The coming of Baha'o'llah. Isaiah 28, verses 4&5: The Glorious Beauty of God is veiled by a body. Isaiah 62, verse 1&2: Gentiles will seek God in Zion-Palestine. The prophecy that Acca and Palestine will be called by a new name, was fulfilled when Baha'o'llah called that valley "Land of Desire," and "God shall so name it with His Mouth"   ABU1641

In one of the blessed Surihs revealed at the beginning of His arrival in the Most Great Prison, He - exalted be His glory - saith: "Know thou that God hath seized the greatest of those who passed judgment against Us, through His power and sovereignty," unto His words, exalted be His majesty: "Soon shall We depose one like unto him and seize their prince who ruleth over the lands, and I am the Mighty, the Compelling." How many souls did He seize through one of the greatest of the wicked ones, rewarding them according to their deeds, and then caused him to perish and be destroyed by the flame of His wrath, until he returned to his abode.   BH00740

The day is approaching when the Land of Mystery and what is beside it shall be changed, and shall pass out of the hands of the King, and commotions shall appear, and the voice of lamentation shall be raised, and the evidences of mischief shall be revealed on all sides, and confusion shall spread by reason of that which hath befallen these captives at the hands of the hosts of oppression. The course of things shall be altered, and conditions shall wax so grievous, that the very sands on the desolate hills will moan, and the trees on the mountain will weep, and blood will flow out of all things. Then wilt thou behold the people in sore distress.   BH00260

If ye desire Him Whom God shall make manifest for sovereignty, behold, there are countless kings upon the earth - how then could this divert you from the good-pleasure of your Lord? Reflect ye a little! And if ye desire Him Whom God shall make manifest for riches, lo, there are numberless wealthy ones upon the earth - how then could this distract you from God, your Lord, and aught of His good-pleasure? Would that ye would reflect a little! And if ye desire Him Whom God shall make manifest for armies, behold, there are countless hosts upon the earth - how then could this turn you away from God and His good-pleasure? Would that ye would reflect a little!  BB00003

In Persia there is a sect who believe in the divinity of Ali. They have religious books in Turkish which explain that One shall appear in the flesh. (That is, a divinity.) There were no prophecies to foretell the coming of Moses; but for the coming of Jesus Christ we find them, and in the Bible the coming of Mahomet was mentioned - Deut. XXX111:2 "He shine forth from Mt. Paran." In the Gospels, Mahomet is proclaimed as the Advocate. But all the religious books foretell the coming of the Bab and the Blessed Perfection; the Bible, the Koran, Gospels, Holy traditions of Ali and the Zoroastrians writings, etc. All are quite plain - no one can contradict them.   ABU0650

Tablets were likewise dispatched to other kings, among them an epistle to His Majesty Nasiri'd-Din Shah. In that epistle Baha'u'llah said: Summon Me to thy presence and gather all the divines, and ask for proof and testimony, that truth might be distinguished from error. His Majesty sent Baha'u'llah's epistle to the divines and assigned them this task, but they dared not undertake it. Briefly, all that was recorded in the Tablets to the kings has come to pass. One need only compare their contents with the events that have transpired since the year 1870 to see that every prediction has been fulfilled, save for a few that remain to be manifested in the future.  AB00029

From the prison at Akka, He addressed the German Emperor in the clearest of terms, telling him that a great war was on the way and that his city of Berlin would break forth in lamentation and wailing. Likewise did He write to the Turkish sovereign, although He was that Sultan's victim and a captive in his prison -- that is, He was being held prisoner in the Fortress at Akka -- and clearly stated that Constantinople would be overtaken by a sudden and radical change, so great that the women and children of that city would mourn and cry aloud. In brief, He addressed such words to all the monarchs and the presidents, and everything came to pass, exactly as He had foretold.   AB00197

The prophets of God in past times declared that the coming of the successive manifestations of God would be recognized by certain signs symbolically expressed. For example, Isaiah prophesied that when the promised one should come he would sit upon the throne of David; he would conquer the East and the West; he would organize a new sovereignty; he would uphold the law of the Torah; he would usher all the nations under his dominion; during his time the lamb and the wolf would dwell together; the mountains would depart and the hills would be removed; and the earth and the heavens would pass away. All these were the signs of the coming of the Messiah, but they were only symbols.  ABU0327

It is evident these words were not from you, for it is unthinkable that you would follow vain imaginings and doubts. All these events that have occurred were mentioned before in the revealed Tablets. Moreover, in the first year of arrival in this land, the Blessed Beauty resided in a house near Muradiyyih, while these servants were in another house. One afternoon, He came out from the sanctuary, and all the emigrant servants were standing in His presence, including this servant, Haji Mirza Ahmad, Siyyid Muhammad and others. He said that a strange thing had been witnessed that day...After two full years had passed, that which was to appear appeared. At that time it became known who was meant by the mentioned Muhammad.  BH00004

Satan will appear in the island of Qaf and will prevent people from the All-Merciful. When that time comes, turn toward the Holy Land from whence the breath of God will pass. And Qaf is Cyprus, this is well-known, as all Turks call Cyprus Satan's Island. And the Holy Land is known to be where the seat of the Throne is now established. The second passage states: Habab will appear in the island attributed to him. He is short in stature, with a thick beard, narrow forehead and chest, with yellow eyes and hair, having fur like a deer on his back and hair like red clay on his chest. When that time comes, draw near to Carmel even if crawling on your chest, then turn toward the Holy Valley, the land of gathering, the white spot.  BH00399

The coming of the Kingdom of God is foretold in all the holy books and these sayings are not confined to a small number, but the books are full of them - especially Daniel and Isaiah. In the Bible there are too many prophecies to even speak of them. The prophecies in the books of Zoroaster plainly foretold the coming of the Bab and the Manifestation. There were no prophecies to foretell the coming of Moses, but for the coming of Jesus we find them and in the Bible the coming of Mohammed was mentioned in the Gospels as the Advocate, but regarding the coming of the Bab and the Manifestation all the religious books foretell of them - the Bible, the Koran, the Gospels, the holy traditions of Ali, and the Zoroastrian writings; all are quite plain on this point.   ABU0601

He addressed Constantinople fifty years ago as follows: 'O thou Point which liest between the two seas (i.e., Constantinople) ….Hath thine outward adornment rendered thee proud? Soon thou shalt perish, by the Lord of Creation! And thy daughters and widows and those peoples that are within thee shall lament.' To Persia, at a time when the shah Nasiru'dDin was in the height of his power, he wrote, addressing Teheran, foretelling political disturbances and the establishment of constitutional government. He addressed the Emperor of Germany in forcible terms as follows: 'See what happened to Napoleon (3rd) who was before thee. Be admonished and leave thy pride. Thy kingdom will not remain to thee. I hear the lamentations and moaning of Berlin, although it is now in manifest glory.'   ABU0402

All that was explicitly stated in the Sacred Tablets, some revealed fifty years ago, has been fulfilled word for word, every letter thereof. This stands as a sufficient and conclusive proof, shining like the sun at the zenith of heaven. Better still, these manifest verses were recorded thirty years ago by the enemies in their books written in refutation of the Cause of God, wherein they objected that such things were impossible and unattainable. What was explicitly foretold regarding Abdul-Aziz and Abdul-Hamid in Istanbul has all transpired, as have the events in Tehran, the people's movement, the turmoil and revolution, likewise the fall of Bonaparte the great monarch of France, the lamentations of Berlin and the defeat of Germany, and so forth and so forth and so forth - all explicitly stated and clear.  AB01692

We have proved thee through it, and found thee other than that which thou didst profess. Arise, and make amends for that which escaped thee. Erelong the world and all that thou possessest will perish, and the kingdom will remain unto God. ...For what thou hast done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion, and thine empire shall pass from thine hands, as a punishment for that which thou hast wrought. Then wilt thou know how thou hast plainly erred.... Thy pomp ... shall soon pass away, unless thou holdest fast by this firm Cord. We see abasement hastening after thee.... All this happened just as announced by Baha'u'llah. Napoleon III was dethroned and exiled. His empire passed away and became nonexistent while the dominion and sovereignty of Baha'u'llah, the Prisoner, has become eternal through the confirmation of God.  ABU0147

They brought forward many proofs. They said that the Messiah should come from heaven and Jesus was born of Mary. They said that He must come with a sword in His hand and Jesus had not even a stick of wood. They said that the Messiah should establish a Kingdom and Jesus came as the poorest of men. According to the words of the Prophets, the Promised One must promote the Cause of the Bible, and this man broke the Sabbath day and other laws of the Bible. According to prophecy Elijah should come from heaven in the promised day, and this John the Baptist had a father and mother. In the day of the Kingdom of the Promised One even the animals would live in peace. The sheep and wolf would drink from one spring; the lion and deer would pasture together; the eagle and partridge would be in one nest, and the mouse and serpent would stay in one hole.  ABU0783

In the days when the Surih of Ra'is was revealed, mention was made of the Sublime State and what it did and what would befall it. Many were bewildered as to how this would come to pass. God, the Most High, the Most Great, spoke truth. Now in these days one should recite that blessed Surih to gain insight into the power and greatness of God's Cause, and all will testify that verily He is the Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed, the Wise. Likewise with the Tablet of Paris - no one could conceive how such a momentous matter would come to pass. Indeed, someone mentioned to this servant that it was inconceivable that someone like Napoleon would be deposed or come to an end. But days had not passed before the Sun of God's Word shone forth and all that was revealed in the verses appeared word for word, letter for letter, and all witnessed it.   BH00619

For instance, there were conditions for the appearance of the Qa'im, such as the emergence of Dajjal and Sufyani, the raising of the conquering standard, the unsheathed sword, manifest sovereignty, the vanguard of seven beasts, the flight of the chiefs and nobles from all corners of the earth to the Ka'bih, the appearance of wonderful signs, victories in East and West, the submission of Persians and Arabs, the shedding of scholars' blood, the turning of seven mills by their blood. Similarly in the Gospel, there were prescribed conditions for the Manifestation: the darkening of the sun and moon, the falling of stars, the quaking of the earth, the trembling of mountains, the wailing and lamentation of tribes and peoples, the descent of the Promised One upon clouds, the descent of hosts of angels, the blowing of the trumpet, the sound of the horn, and so forth.   AB00052

Remember what was revealed in the Land of Mystery in the first year to Our servant the Mahdi, wherein We informed him of what would befall the House thereafter, lest he be grieved by what had previously occurred from him who transgressed and stole. With thy Lord is the knowledge of the heavens and the earths. We have spoken, and Our word is the truth. Then know that this is not the first weakness that hath befallen My House. Before this it was afflicted by what the hands of the oppressors had wrought, and there shall descend upon it such humiliation as will cause tears to flow from every seeing eye. Thus have We imparted unto thee that which was hidden behind the veils of the Unseen, which none hath discovered save God, the Mighty, the All-Praised. Then shall pass days wherein God will raise it up in truth and make it a standard in the kingdom, around which shall circle a company of them that know.  BH01194

Christ declared before His martyrdom that the stones which were utterly neglected and seemingly useless would become the cornerstone. That is to say, souls who in the eyes of men possessed no rank or station and were not mentioned in any position - nay, in the eyes of men were lowly and poor - these souls, when they came under the shadow of the Word of God, would attain to the heights of everlasting glory and would shine forth like stars from the horizon of greatness. Those souls who are now apparently at the pinnacle of glory would become abased, lowly and as nothing. Those who are renowned among the people for their utmost grandeur, wealth and magnificence would be utterly destroyed and vanquished. Some thoughtless ones found these utterances of Christ strange, and even mocked them. Not long passed before all that He had spoken became clear as the sun. The deniers and mockers awakened and became remorseful, but it was too late.   ABU0859

When the Apostle of God - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - was besieged by the confederates during the Battle of the Trench and was occupied with digging the trench, a heavy rock was discovered which the companions could not move. His Holiness came with all the companions to remove that rock. He had a staff in His blessed hand and in such state He struck that rock and said: "The kingdoms of the Persians have been conquered." He struck again and said: "The domains of the Caesars have been subdued." A group of hypocrites who were there with His Holiness said: "Glory be to God! What words are these? We are besieged by weak Arab tribes, even cut off from water and vegetation, rejected and defeated, yet this person speaks of conquering the kingdoms of the Persians and Romans? What tale is this and what account?" Not long passed before those same Arabs entered the palace of Chosroes and said: "This is what God and His Apostle promised us, and true was the Messenger."   AB00196

For some enemies authored books and, purely for corruption and kindling the fire of hatred, recorded these divine texts that were revealed from the Supreme Pen fifty years ago in their own books and published them for more than thirty years. They even interpreted and clarified some words that were somewhat ambiguous, hoping this would cause influential hostile figures to arise and uproot the Blessed Tree. Even the notorious Mirza Mehdi Khan included these divine texts in his delirious treatise. For example, he included "O Point situated between the two seas, namely Constantinople" between two parentheses to provoke a certain person and make him understand that he was the one referred to in "the throne of tyranny hath been established upon thee." These enemies were in truth heralds. Now that the divine texts have been fulfilled after fifty years, no one is left with the possibility of denial, for as mentioned, they were recorded and published in the enemies' treatises thirty years ago.   AB00161

Isaiah 34, verse 16: Refers to the beginning of improvements and the coming of the Holy people. Chapter 55 refers to the restoration. Bosrah is near Jerusalem and was noted for a centre of the dyeing industry. Jeremiah 31: The Restoration, verses 7 to 10 is a prophecy concerning the present time, when the believers are going to Acca. Ephrain is Mt. Shighon. Verses 6 & 31 they will come with weeping of joy and supplications. Jacob means all the people of God in Truth. Verse 27 & 31, refers to the restoration of the real Jews and making a new covenant with them. Verse 31 to 38, verse 38 refers to the time of the Jews when they built towers of defence, the Tower of Hannanell which was near Jerusalem. Verse 40, the Valley of Dead Bodies is between Tyre and Haifa in Galilee or Ashor. Romans Chapter 11, verse 1 & 21. The preservation in Israel of 7,000 men. Verses 11 to 15, the Hebrews fell so that the Gentiles would come to salvation. Gentiles mean Europe. Verse 26 refers to Baha'u'llah and the great deliverance.   ABU1188

Verses were revealed that informed, warned and gave glad tidings, and scarcely had any time elapsed before their mysteries were manifested, their effects became apparent, and their promises were fulfilled. This matter became renowned throughout the East and the West of the earth. Among these was the eloquent address to that stubborn one among the People of the Book, Napoleon the Great, who prided himself on the influence of his word in all regions and the greatness of his dominion whose banners waved upon the edifices of glory among all peoples. While at the height of his might and his transcendent glory, the Lord of Hosts addressed him with words that caused the limbs of every proud and vainglorious one to tremble. All souls were astonished at such an address, given the greatness of this man who was peerless in all regions, since his abasement and downfall seemed impossible at that time. Yet no more than a few months had passed before his mighty throne was undermined, his lofty standard was reversed, his noble crown fell, and he became a prisoner without any to help him.   AB00085

In this Most Great Revelation that which hath been witnessed leaveth no room for doubt or uncertainty for any soul, save those who arise in tyranny and speak with sheer and absolute oppression. Whatsoever was revealed in the divine Tablets concerning future events was explicitly stated, without any allusion. Should one examine the Tablet of Fu'ad, the Tablet to Ra'is, the Tablet of Paris, and other Tablets revealed during the tribulations of imprisonment and the opening of its gates, one would be astounded and bewildered. Every letter thereof hath been fulfilled. After the revelation of each of these Tablets, certain assured hearts wondered how these events would come to pass. This servant would submit: "You shall soon see." One day this servant asked whether, if Ra'is should repent, he might be invested with the robe of forgiveness. Thereupon the Ancient Beauty turned to me and said: "By God, besides Whom there is none other God! All that the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Tablet shall come to pass." Then in Persian He said: "Were all who are in heaven and earth to gather together, desiring to change but one word of the Tablet of Ra'is, they would be powerless and would never succeed."   BH00391

after the year sixty-eight corresponding to the numerical value of "Hin" (time), for after year sixty-eight comes year sixty-nine, and this is the year of the manifestation of the Ancient Beauty   AB11685





This is the Day which was adorned with His mention in the Books of God aforetime.   BH10515

This is the Day which was attributed to God in the Books of the Prophets and Messengers   BH07710

In the Holy Books of God, mention was made of the Day of Manifestation, and all peoples awaited that Day   BH06521

He is the One Who was promised in the Books of God, yet when He appeared every stubborn oppressor denied Him  BH06829

He hath appeared time after time, and in this cycle hath drawn aside all the veils from the face of the Unseen   BH07506

All the Books give glad tidings of this Most Great Manifestation and voice the praise of the Lord of Eternity.   BH06213

"God hath sent down the Books for this Day, and dispatched the Messengers for this blessed and wondrous Cause."   BH08350



All men and women were awaiting the Manifestation of divine Revelation and watching for the dawning of the celestial Light.  BH05723

This is the Day whereof Moses gave tidings, and whereof the Messenger of God, Lord of all religions, brought glad-tidings.   BH00361

For thousands of years the peoples waited for this glorious age and the manifestation of the mysteries of the Glorious Lord.   AB02421

All have awaited these days and with complete supplication have beseeched from God the Exalted the attainment of His presence.  BH04164

Christians too are afflicted with vain imaginings and imitations, such that they are still waiting for stars to fall from heaven  ABU2441

All created things have been created for this Day and throughout ages and centuries were hopeful and expectant to attain the Divine Day.  BH07324

All divine Books have testified to the Day of God, and all Prophets and Messengers have given the glad-tidings thereof to their people.   BH06109

This is the blessed spot and holy land where all the Prophets offered prayers and opened their lips in glad-tidings, sometimes weeping and lamenting and raising cries of anguish at the oppression of the Beloved of all horizons, and sometimes experiencing ecstasy and joy from the favors of the Lord of Hosts. Now the time draws near when those favors will be fulfilled, those lights will shine forth, and that enduring glory will become manifest. Therefore give glad-tidings and joyful news to all Israel that they shall become manifestations of the bounty of the Glorious Lord. AB06218

This is the Day that hath been adorned with its mention in all the divine Books, and whose presence all the Messengers have yearned to attain.  BH09784

all the Prophets gave the people of the earth the glad-tidings of this wondrous Day, which in the holy divine Books is known as the Day of God   BH04189

O people! This is the Great Announcement with which ye were promised in all the Tablets. He hath indeed come with the truth with mighty sovereignty.  BH04689

In all divine Books and heavenly Scriptures, the people were given glad tidings of the dawning-place of divine revelation and the dayspring of His verses.   BH03697

There is a prophecy in the Mohammadan writings that the Standard of Truth shall be unfurled in the East and then in the West and this saying we see fulfilled in our day.  ABU0378

All the world and the peoples of every nation have awaited the days of the Manifestation, and the True One, exalted be His glory, gave them all glad tidings of these days  BH05725

This is an explicit promise and clearly enunciated by the Divine Prophets. They have foretold that even outwardly, the Jews will come to the Holy Land and once more reclaim their ancient splendor.   ABU1825

We informed you of the appearance of Husayn after the Qa'im. This is indeed the Self-Subsisting, O people of the Book! The Qa'im hath sought shelter beneath His shadow, and then all the Manifestations of the names.  BH03461

"The people of the Qur'an, throughout ages and centuries, were awaiting the days of God, yet when they appeared, they denied them and perpetrated what caused the atoms of all created things to lament and cry out."   BH03033

Hearken ye on the Day when the Herald calleth from the direction of the Most Exalted Name. Then shall ye find the true Cry between heaven and earth, and God shall come in holy clouds surrounded by hosts of angels.   BH01465

Today it is incumbent upon all the peoples of the world to turn with their hearts toward the Beloved. The divine promises recorded and inscribed in the books of the past and present have all become manifest and evident.   BH06919

The Jews believed that Moses was the Seal of the Prophets, that he sealed the prophethood of Laws. The Christians believe that after Christ, no prophet with Laws will come, but that Christ himself will descend from heaven.   ABU1841

God, exalted be His glory, hath through the tongues of the Prophets and Messengers given the glad-tidings of this wondrous and sublime Day. In all the sacred Scriptures and Tablets this Day hath been designated as the Day of God   BH08165

That which ye have read in the Qur'an - None shall enter Paradise unless the camel passeth through the eye of the needle - consider what God intended thereby. The eye of the needle is the Primal Point when all His servants recognize Him.  BB00003

Before the appearance of the Promised One, how the people were in a state of seeking and expectation, and would supplicate and implore at the threshold of the Lord, and expressed their desire to sacrifice their lives on the Day of His appearance.   ABU1169

Therefore, O children of Abraham, await the manifestation of all divine promises and enter, all of you, beneath the shade of the word of unity, so that those sweet promises which issued from the sugar-sweet lips of the Prophets may all be fulfilled.  AB01297

All the Divine Books and Scriptures have predicted and announced unto men the advent of the Most Great Revelation. None can adequately recount the verses recorded in the Books of former ages which forecast this supreme Bounty, this most mighty Bestowal.  BH11362

How many prophets longed to be here in these days of God. Many Germans left their homeland and settled here on this mountain, where they awaited the arrival of the One promised in the Holy Bible. They wrote over their doors that the Beloved would soon come.  ABU3681

The Christians do not understand the signs. They expect that the sun shall be darkened, and that the moon shall not give its light. The stars shall fall from heaven. After this, the Son of man shall be seen descending from Heaven, riding upon the clouds, attended by hosts of angels.  ABU0459

All the followers of the Quran acknowledge and confess that after the Manifestation, Husayn shall appear on earth and all the Prophets and Messengers shall gather beneath His blessed standard. Likewise shall the Qa'im return and join with the Prophets and Messengers beneath the standard.  BH03044

We have revealed no Book but We promised those who believed in it that they would await the Day whereon We would reveal another Book, and they would believe in what was revealed therein and acknowledge him upon whom it would descend, for verily he is a Messenger from Our presence unto all the worlds.  BB00003

The divines, mystics and princes of the earth waited night and day to see when the horizon of the world would be illumined by the lights of the Sun of Manifestation, and when the Countenance of the Promised One would descend from the heaven of the divine Will with the hosts of knowledge and utterance.   BH07158

The people of the earth in ages and centuries past have awaited and continue to await the effulgences of the Light of the divine Manifestation. Especially the Shi'ih sect, uttering the words "Would that we had been with Thee!" and upon hearing mention of the Qa'im, speaking the phrase "May God hasten His advent!"  BH04657

By the life of God! No Messenger was sent and no Book was revealed except to give glad tidings to creation of this Manifestation through which the very corners of possibility smiled. But when the appointed time was fulfilled and the Promise came and the Promised One appeared, the servants in all directions denied Him.   BH02423

All that was revealed from the heaven of God's Will concerning the chief, princes and deputies in the blessed Surih of Ra'is, the Most Holy Book, and other Tablets has now emerged from the realm of the unseen into the arena of manifestation. Yet despite these Tablets being in many hands, the people remain heedless and unmindful.  BH00292

How many the honourable souls in past centuries and times who yearned with all their hearts to hear the mere name of the kingdom of God in their day. They longed to be alive in promised day, the time prophesied to all peoples and nations, but alas they left this world with great regret and remorse for they did not attain their expectations.  AB06379

The people of the world, in nights and days, would beseech to attain the presence of the Dayspring of God's Cause and the Manifestation of His Revelation. In pulpits and mosques, upon hearing His mention, they would rise to their feet and, with utmost humility and supplication, would implore His presence, crying out "May God hasten His advent!"  BH02569

And in this station We make mention of thy daughter and We beseech God to assist her and make her steadfast in His love. Verily He is potent over all things. O handmaiden of God! The whole world was brought from nothingness into being for the recognition of the Ancient Beauty, and this blessed Day was promised in all the Books, Tablets and Scriptures.   BH00945

Husseyn, son of Fatima, is expected with twelve Imams. Moses is expected by the Jews to return as the Messiah. Christ is looked for by the Christians. The people of the world have always expected a reincarnation of their greatest prophet, - each nation respectively, according to its religious beliefs; that is, they expected the return of the soul in its personality.   ABU1184

Know that the gathering of Abraham's descendants in Jerusalem is a destined matter, for all the promises that the Lord of Hosts made through the prophets in the Torah have reached their time of fulfillment. The divine will has determined to fulfill all promises, and day by day its signs become more apparent, its proof more evident, its evidence clearer, and its path more manifest.  AB00370

The entire world awaited the Days of God, for the True One, exalted be His glory, had promised them in His Books, Psalms and Scriptures. Thus in the Furqan, which is the supreme proof of God, He saith: "Lead forth the people from darkness into light and announce to them the Days of God." This blessed verse was revealed aforetime, and the True One, exalted be His glory, informed His Beloved of it.   BH05724

The whole world hath been, and still is, awaiting the days of His manifestation, and in the nights and days they have been seeking and yearning to attain His presence and to comprehend the Day mentioned in the divine Books. Yet when the horizon of the world was illumined with the lights of the dawn of His Revelation, all were found heedless and veiled, save whom thy Lord, the Lord of the heavens and earth, did please.   BH01498

We want a Christ that will ascend to the throne of David...draw the sword and conquer people and nations of the world, and then take all countries. All the poor of Israel will become rulers in other lands. We expect such a Christ. When He comes we shall believe in him. We do not want a Christ that will be oppressed, but one who will oppress - who will behead thousands - who will bring into captivity all the kings of the earth.  ABU0570

From the beginning that hath no beginning, the meaning of that Surah is like this, and unto the end that hath no end, the meaning of that Surah is like this; nay, the meaning of all the Books is like this. Therefore, judge with fairness by God: Have those who were given the Gospel read that Surah after the appearance of Muhammad, and likewise after the appearance of Him Who came after Him, and likewise unto the end that hath no end?  BB00654

The entire world today is seen to be waiting, as every sect among the sects awaits a Promised One mentioned in their books. Now that through God's grace - exalted be His glory - the horizon of the world has been illumined by the lights of the face of the Most Great Name, and the appointed times in the books have been fulfilled, and all signs and tokens have been manifested and made evident, all are found to be heedless, veiled, deniers and opposers, save whom God wills.  BH01760

For example, the Promised One of the Jews was to come forth from an unknown place, and among His conditions were unlimited sovereignty, occupancy of David's throne, the drawing of swords, the mobilization of thousands, the promotion of the Torah, the proclamation of verses, the universalization of the Mosaic Law, and the manifestation of supreme justice whereby wolf and lamb, leopard and kid, lion and calf, serpent and suckling child would become companions, nestmates and confidants.   AB00082

All the world's religions await their Promised One, Each with their own name and sacred place assigned. The Kaysaniyya wait for Ibn Hanafiyya's dawn, Who dwells, they say, on Mount Ridva enshrined. The Sunnis hold the Mihdi shall appear, From unknown realms to Mecca drawing near, With mighty hosts and sword of victory raised, To claim the world and rule through coming years. The Zoroastrians share this selfsame dream, Though Kaykhusraw they name their coming king, Who from Mount Unknown shall in glory stream. While Christians watch for Christ on angels' wing. The Jews await their promised Moses' heir, In Sabbath City held by shifting sand, Till gates unlock and he emerges fair To bring God's justice to each waiting land.  ABU0639

Judge thou by God! What became of those verses revealed concerning the advent of the Day of Resurrection - mention of the Bridge, the Balance, the rising of the dead from their graves, the blowing of the trumpet, the passing of mountains like clouds, the cleaving of heaven, the rending of earth, the descent of angels, Paradise and Hell, and the like? And what didst thou witness? And how dost thou interpret that which was revealed in the Book of God regarding the conditions of the appearance of the Resurrection? For outwardly none of these things appeared. Yet We bear witness that all have been made manifest, and the appearance of these matters hath been dependent upon the Word of God, exalted be His glory. For each of these there are meanings ordained and recorded with God.  BH00118

Know thou that factions have, from the earliest centuries, been anxiously waiting to observe the manifest brilliance of the Light of Guidance and the emergence of the Elevated Stars; the appearance of the Promised Manifestation from Jabulqa and Jabarsa. Jews have been anticipating the appearance of the Promised One from the City of the Sabbath which is concealed from the eyes; the same is Jabulqa. The community of Jesus [Christians] await the appearance of the Promised One from the centre of the sky, upon a cloud, descending from the most elevated zenith; the same is Jabarsa. The Kaisaniyya await the appearance of the Promised One from out of the interior of the mountain of Radwa nigh unto the Luminous City [Medina]; the same is Jabulqa. The ancient Persian community [Zoroastrians] await the manifestation of their Promised One from an unknown location; the same is Jabarsa.  AB02475

Nations are divided through superstition and tradition. Religions are divided through tradition and superstition. All superstition is the result of people's imagination. For instance, the Shi'ites await a promised one who is invisible; they believe that he is the Imam Mihdi, who with servants and soldiers are abiding in Jabulqa and Jabulsa, two imaginary cities of the East and the West. Each of these cities has twelve gates. The Imam Mihdi spends six months of the year in either city. When he appears he will fill the earth with justice and mercy, destroying enmity and oppression. The Sunnis believe that the Mihdi will come from an unknown place and suddenly appear at Mecca with a sword in his right hand; he will disperse the people (infidels) into different parts of the earth. Parsees believe that Kay-Khusraw will appear from a mountain. Christians believe that the Promised One will descend from the sky. The Jews say that the Messiah must be a descendant of David. They speak of a city named Sabbath, round which flows a river of sand; this sand stops flowing on Saturdays. The gates of this city are all closed. Moses said: 'After me, a man like unto me will appear.' He came. But the Jews are still waiting. They have waited three thousand years.   ABU0869

Let them ponder the blessed Surih of Ra'is and judge fairly. All that subsequently came to pass had been previously revealed from the Supreme Pen with utmost clarity. Let a group gather, free from hatred, and examine that Surih. By the life of our Lord! Word for word it hath been made manifest in the visible world. Let them observe and judge fairly, and return from the desert of heedlessness to the field of awareness, and from the darkness of fancy and conjecture to the light of certitude. Fear God, O people, and be not among the transgressors.  BH00095

The divine promises recorded in the Holy Books have all been fulfilled. The Law of God has flowed from Zion and the Call of God has been raised from Jerusalem. Its lands and mountains have been adorned with the effulgences of the lights of the Lord. Blessed is he who ponders on that which hath been revealed in the Books of God, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling.  BH00091