
Purify thy heart for My descent  AB07054

Sanctify your heart and purify your mind.   BH02683

Bestow upon me a pure heart, like unto a pearl.   AB11605

"It is incumbent upon thee to be pure and holy."  AB05973

Truly, the hearts of the children are very pure.   ABU2244

polish your hearts from the rust of vain imaginings.  BH08462

purify our hearts from the mention of aught save Thee  BH03976

possessest a heart that is illumined, pure and refined   AB05347

make me pure and sincere before Thy gracious countenance  AB10323

The pure heart is one that is entirely cut away from self.   ABU3603

If he is not pure and holy...no one can say he is a Baha'i.   ABU3277

"Children have no worldly ambitions. Their hearts are pure."   ABU3166

Turn thy face sincerely toward God; be purified and sanctified  AB11301

thy heart, through purity, may become the envy of the rose garden  AB08766

We counsel the loved ones of God to purify and sanctify themselves   BH06903

Strive not after bodily comforts, and keep your heart pure and stainless.  BH02747

And among them, O my God, are those who have sought Thee with pure intention   BH07671

one must strive in affairs with pure intention and ultimately await the results  AB03774

"as soon as the mirror of the heart is cleansed from the rust of worldly thoughts"  AB03622

forget this world of possession, become wholly heavenly, become embodied spirit and attain to universal mind. This arena is vast and unlimited; therein the charger of spirit must move swiftly, for here one cannot travel by foot. This gift is very great but complete and sufficient capacity is necessary.  ABU3334

Verily, He remembereth whoso turneth unto Him with a pure and radiant countenance.   BH07833

Draw nigh unto Him with a pure heart, cheerful face, gazing eye and a joyful spirit  AB04920

Personal purity, both in private and public is greatly emphasized and insisted upon.  ABU3521

Purify thy heart through the love of God, thy Lord, for by it are all worlds purified.   BH06140

Their hearts are pure to the utmost, and their souls are as undefiled and delicate as can be.  ABU3713

Make then your deeds pure for His sake. Beware lest ye do that which is displeasing unto Him.   BH07298

His love hath ever been and shall continue to be the teacher of pure hearts and sanctified souls  BH10751

the greatest means of illuminating the heart is through the lights of sanctification   AB07281

whosoever hath turned with a pure and luminous heart toward the horizon of certitude shall endure   BH08328

"Nothing but pure deeds and goodly words have ever been or shall ever be worthy of God's threshold."  BH04173

He commandeth all to sanctification that they may enter His Kingdom and stand before His presence.   BH08218

Purify thyself from whatsoever is unworthy of thee, then seek bounty from thy Lord every morn and eve.   BH02457

Purify thy heart with the water of thy Lord's utterance  BH06924

If you desire to enter the gathering of the mystics, purify yourself from all that souls detest.   BH10178


He has commanded you only to that which would purify your souls from the turbidities of self and passion   BH03233

How blessed are those souls who rise from the horizon of sanctity and engage in glorification and praise.  AB07524

Illumine and hallow your hearts; let them not be profaned by the thorns of hate or the thistles of malice.   BH06328

Purify his tongue from the praise of any save Thee, and his heart from turning toward aught except Thyself.   BH07898

Purify thyself, then, from the love of aught else but Me, that thou mayest find a way to attain My presence   BH11006

Sanctify your souls for My knowledge, your hearts for My love, and your tongues for My wondrous remembrance.   BH03143

Purify your hearts from envy and hatred that ye may meet your Lord, the All-Merciful, with sanctified hearts.   BH03270

Assuredly when intention becomes pure, the effulgences of the light of reformation become manifest and evident   BH02245

When the heart is pure and filled with the light of the Spirit, we will know that we are in the true 'Heaven.'   ABU1278

with perfect sanctity and detachment - that is, with a heart purified from doubts and the allusions of the world  BH07189

I beseech Thee by Thyself and by what Thou art, to purify me from whatsoever is abhorrent unto Thy good-pleasure   BH06422

to purify thee from whatsoever is unseemly in His days, and to sanctify thee from the conditions of His creatures   BH07190

God willing, thou shouldst remain steadfast and unwavering in the Cause of God in utmost sanctity and detachment.   BH07004

It behooveth My loved ones to be sanctified from all things and from whatsoever is repugnant to God's good-pleasure  BH05105

His heart must be purified from all worldly feelings and his consciousness be cleansed from all unholy suggestions.  ABU3392

their hearts sanctified and purified from rancor, hatred, doubts, idle fancies, selfish desires and vain imaginings   BH03800

That you had nothing with you means that you turned to the Truth with a heart empty and purified from vain thoughts.  AB06313

that all may gaze toward God's direction with illumined breasts, penetrating vision, pure hearts and sanctified souls  BH07607

Such rare plumage is none other than true sanctity and holiness. Be thou like the peacock of the All-Highest Paradise.  AB09592



Purify your hearts, for verily He knoweth what is within you, what occupieth you, and what proceedeth from your mouths   BH02471

There is no way of salvation other than through sanctity and purity, through love and servitude to the All-Glorious Lord  AB09200

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Holy, Most Glorious Beauty to make the hearts of Thy servants sanctified from self and desire   BH11071

to be purified and sanctified in all respects... Your inner and outer reality would become a pure and sanctified spirit.   AB06764

Praise be to God, since the intention is for God's sake, be assured, and God will establish the truth through His words.   AB03639

But I bear witness regarding you that you have no purpose save the good-pleasure of God, no desire save the welfare of all.   AB01896

Then adorn your deeds with the ornament of sanctity, that the fragrance of sincerity may waft from you amongst all servants.   BH04976

When the heart hath become clear and pure then the face will become illuminated, because the face is the mirror of the heart.  AB08148

Be a sign of sanctification and a banner of holiness, that thou mayest shed abroad upon the world the lights of true chastity  AB11491

Sanctify yourselves from all that would remove you from God, then draw nigh with your hearts unto the court of sublime glory.   BH01948

the heart becomes the dawning-place of the signs of divine unity, the spirit becomes the dayspring of the lights of detachment  AB10057

Remove from thy heart every trace of the conditions of polytheism, that the lights of this luminous horizon may shine upon it.  AB08208

Therefore, strive in sincerity of intention and exertion of effort so that like a magnet you may attract divine confirmations.  AB05670

Purify your hearts from all earthly suggestions, that the revelation of your Lord, the All-Merciful, may be reflected therein.   BH06769

Purify thyself from whatsoever God abhorreth, then remember Him with thy heart and tongue, and be not of them that keep silent.   BH04849

Purify your deeds and sanctify your souls, that there may appear from you that whereby the hearts of all men shall be attracted   BH02836

Your hearts are pure. I bear witness that you have no other aim but that which is good. Your aim is to serve the Kingdom of GOD.  ABU1514

May you be assisted to achieve that which will make your pure intention and turning to truth manifest and evident like the sun.   AB03857

We counsel all the women of that land to sanctification and detachment and whatsoever the All-Bountiful hath sent down in the Book  BH08106

The foremost service is to purify the heart and the eye and the ear and the soul and the entire being from all that is not worthy.  BH11718

Now, may your heart be as pure and as transparent so that the pictures and images of the Kingdom of Abha may be reflected therein.  ABU1503

True purity and cleanliness is to purify and sanctify the heart with the water sent down from the heaven of divine manifestation.   AB06825

This is a Day wherein the money-changers of divine unity distinguish and differentiate between the pure and that which is otherwise  BH07314

Therefore, man must be sanctified, attracted to divine truth, pure, holy and detached; then will the gates of prosperity be opened.  ABU1671

Thou must needs cleanse it with the water of certitude that it may be purified and sanctified from the mention of aught else but Me   BH10216

O servant! Purify thy heart from all that thou hast heard, then enter with thy heart the holy precincts with longing and free will.   BH07286

Purify thy heart from all allusions, then make it a receptacle for the love of My Name, the All-Merciful, and be not of the heedless   BH03193

it was written with pure intention, sincere love and complete attention. Such a state is surely among the signs of heavenly bestowals  AB05766

The hearts of children are extremely pure and simple. A person's heart must be like a child's, pure and free from all contamination.   ABU1844

The intention must be pure and the work must be founded on truth. This is the truth, and after truth there is nothing but clear error.   AB11659

Therefore, make pure the essence of thine intention; assuredly thou shalt be assisted to gain a mighty reward and divine good-pleasure.  AB07367

Every word that issues forth from the mouth with sincerity for God's sake has been and will ever be effective throughout all existence.   BH01102

We make mention of the handmaidens of that land and counsel them to be chaste and pure, that all may be sanctified from self and passion   BH03933

Abstract yourselves from these imaginations and cleanse and polish the mirrors of your hearts form the dross of these ignorant prejudices  AB02849

O servant! Purify thy heart from the allusions of all who are on earth, that the lights of thy Lord's revelation may be imprinted thereon   BH05917

It behoveth every one that holdeth fast to the hem of Our Robe to be untainted by anything from which the Concourse on high may be averse.   BH04818

Today the divine decree in the holy scriptures and tablets is to sanctify oneself from all that preventeth man from that which beseemeth him.  BH07244

what is essential and of first importance is to purify one's existence with the Kawthar of counsels from corruption, conflict, rancor and hatred  BH04700

Yet proof is required, and that proof is attraction and rapture, purity and detachment, freedom from defilement, and sanctification and holiness.  AB08726

Purify thy heart from all allusions, that it may be illumined by the lights of the countenance of thy Lord, the Possessor of Names and Attributes.  BH10516

Purify your heart that it may become like unto a transparent mirror. Then thou shalt find Me "standing within thee, Powerful, Mighty and Supreme."  ABU2024

I hope you will always avoid tyranny and oppression, and that you will always uphold and practice justice towards all men and keep your hearts pure.  ABU2032

Blessed is he who has turned his gaze away from his brother and associated with him in spirit and fragrance, purely for the sake of the All-Merciful   BH06331

Take refuge in the protection of thy Lord, then purify thy heart from love of those who have disbelieved in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH01845

All must henceforth act, with perfect sanctity and detachment, according to what has been revealed in the divine Tablets from the Pen of His Command.   BH07638

arise with what is necessary, fitting and worthy of the Day of the Covenant in terms of inner and outer purity and sanctification of spirit and heart   AB02893

O God! Sanctify me from all else save Thee, purge me from the dross of sins and transgressions and cause me to possess a spiritual heart and conscience.  AB07709

It is a condition of severance from self and from the defilement of the physical world, of purification of self in the service of the divine Threshold.   AB04266

I wish for you luminosity of character and purity and sanctity of behavior...like a spiritual rose garden adorned with the flowers of purity and sanctity  AB02726

The heart must needs be purified with the water of the fear of God, that it may be adorned with the inscription of the blessed words "Verily I am God's."   BH09945

Those souls who possess the power of utterance, if this power is combined in them with sanctification and attraction, mighty effects will appear from them  ABU3021

The handmaidens of God must in this day engage themselves with absolute sanctity and purity in the utterance of the praise of the Beloved of all creation.   BH09410

And thou, O handmaiden of God, purify thy heart from the love of aught else, that the sun of the beauty of thy Lord's remembrance may be imprinted thereon   BH05809

Now purify your heart from aversion to this Youth and from love of His enemies, that healing manifestations may appear from the treasury of mighty oneness.  BH02849

"Be ye utterly refined, for whoso lacketh refinement shall never perceive the fragrances of the All-Merciful nor associate with the dwellers of the Ridvan."  BH05195

Indeed, thou hast a pure intention and a radiant heart. Rest assured that sincere intentions and righteous motives in themselves attract divine confirmation  AB04856

Purity and detachment are attributes of the heart not of the body; they belong to the spirit not to clothing and the raiments with which we adorn ourselves.  AB02378

Fear God, O people, and be of them from whom waft the sweet fragrances of holiness and detachment, and to whose sanctity the Concourse on High bear witness.   BH01869

Verily, I saw thy photograph and was rejoiced by perceiving thy illumined likeness, which proved the purity of thy heart and thy being well directed unto God  AB10204

But the condition is that in service to your Lord you adopt the way and manner of true Baha'is and demonstrate the utmost sincerity and purity of intention.   AB03298

We admonish all to uphold sanctity and purity and beseech God to cleanse them from defilement, and confirm them in upright deeds and a praiseworthy character.   BH07556

Therefore it is better that we entrust the discovery of this sealed secret to the mirror of the Most Glorious Beauty's countenance - that is, to the pure heart.  AB07789

Today the handmaidens of God must remain steadfast in the Cause of God with perfect sincerity, unity, sanctity and detachment, and be engaged in His remembrance.  BH08631

Send down, also, upon me, O my God, that which will wash me from anything that is not of Thee, and deliver me from Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thy signs  BH04778

But if you desire a world-revealing cup, it is the pure heart wherein the mystery of the Self-Sufficient Lord appears and becomes manifest in that luminous mirror.  AB08678

All must, God willing, gaze with utmost sanctity and detachment toward the most exalted horizon and give voice to the praise and glorification of the Lord of Names.  BH10199

Sanctify your souls and your deeds in such wise that all atoms shall testify to your sanctification, and this verily is the true victory, would that ye might know.   BH01706

The fragrance of a single deed performed purely for His sake in the Day of God is reckoned as the chief of deeds before God and is recorded by the Most Exalted Pen.   BH04889

Attire, O my Lord, both my inner and outer being with the raiment of Thy favors and Thy loving-kindness. Keep me safe, then, from whatsoever may be abhorrent unto Thee  BH09508

But if thou desirest the world-revealing cup, it is the pure heart wherein the mystery of the Self-Sufficing Lord appears manifest and evident in that brilliant mirror.  AB08678

until hearts are pure and holy, they shall not truly attain the presence of the Beloved nor witness in what appeareth from Him the divine traces and heavenly attributes   BH03943

These are servants whose inner thoughts have been perfumed by the fragrances of Thy holiness, whose consciences have been sanctified from the love of aught else but Thee  AB01852

Today, that which draws one near to the threshold of grandeur is detachment from the world of self and passion, purity of heart, sincerity of intention, and faithfulness.   AB07498

However, the essence of sanctification, purification, cleanliness and refinement is the purity of heart from all else save God and enkindlement with the divine fragrances.  AB05288

Thou must purify thyself from all who are in the heavens and on earth, that thou mayest be enabled to take thy stand in My love and be of those who are firmly established.   BH04187

It behooveth thee to be sanctified, that thou mayest reflect this Great Name. Know thou that God's purpose in this Name is the sanctification of the soul from His enemies.   BH03348

Purify thyself from whatsoever hath occurred to thee, and thy breast from the promptings of them who have disbelieved in God and who move about in the wilderness of passion  BH11722

Purify your hearts from all else but Him, then turn your faces toward this Countenance which hath dawned from the horizon of eternity with manifest splendor.   BH02442

Today pure deeds are required, and a heart detached and free. Beseech thou God that thou mayest attain unto this station and enter the kingdom of His good-pleasure.   BH05986

Strive that all may drink from the Kawthar of sanctity and, with utmost detachment, gaze toward the highest horizon and act according to that which hath been revealed by God.   BH03374

They must occupy themselves with the remembrance of God--glorified be His majesty--in utmost sanctity and detachment, through goodly deeds and praiseworthy and pleasing character   BH04602

"Associate with one another with the utmost sanctity, purity, truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness and righteousness, in such wise that its sweet fragrance may be diffused"   BH01912

For most of those people possess hearts of utmost purity and innate truthfulness, and today the greatest means of entry into the divine Kingdom is truthfulness and purity of heart.  AB01114

In this day it is incumbent upon all handmaidens to hold fast unto the cord of chastity and, in utmost sanctity and detachment, to occupy themselves with the mention of the Beloved.   BH09020

who desire only to do the will of God, who are endowed with seeing eyes and hearing ears, and whose hearts are sensitive like the hearts of little children, perfectly pure and holy.   ABU1732

You must arise today to aid the Cause and forbid people from matters that are displeasing and deeds that are unseemly, that all may drink from the cup of sanctification and holiness.   BH03540

"Adorn your temples with the robes of detachment, and your tongues with truthfulness, and your hearts with sincerity, then make your breasts free from all deceit and guile and doubt."  BH01025

We beseech God to assist His handmaidens to sanctification and detachment, and to the chastity which God hath made the first ornament of His steadfast handmaidens and steadfast servants.  BH07409

O people of the earth! Sanctify your souls and purify your hearts that ye may thereby recognize that which lieth concealed in the treasuries of infallibility from One mighty and powerful  BH02418

The Blessed Perfection has spoken to like effect: "The heart is My room; cleanse it, make it ready, that I may come and dwell in it. Thy spirit is My desire; purify it, that I may visit it."  ABU0464

We counsel you with that wherewith God counseled His servants in the earliest days concerning trustworthiness and godliness and that whereby your stations shall be exalted among the peoples.   BH01970

Praise be to God that your hearts are pure. You have seeing eyes and hearing ears. You are worthy! You are worthy! I give you the glad tidings that you are worthy, because your heart is pure.  ABU0930

Blessed is he who hath arisen to act in such wise that the fragrance of sanctity hath been wafted therefrom throughout the world. We testify that he is among the faithful and the sincere ones.  BH09998

Each of the friends of God must manifest such sanctity that he would purify and sanctify the world, become pure and holy as the light, and should, like unto pure water, wash away every stain.   AB06619

What can I write of the pure intentions, the supreme endeavor, the worship of truth, and the servitude at the threshold of oneness of that faithful friend who is in the utmost joy and delight.  AB04397

Cause them, then, to be numbered among those whose eyes Thou hast cleansed and kept from turning to any one save Thee, and whose eyes Thou hast protected from beholding any face except Thy face   BH09383

make the surface of the heart distinguished from all images, colors, rust and dust, and place it before the Most Glorious Kingdom so that the reflections of the Supreme Concourse may fall upon it  AB05239

Rejoice thou that We found thy letter sanctified from whatsoever is unseemly for the days of thy Lord and purified from the allusions of those who have been heedless of God, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH05142

Then send upon him that which will purify his heart from the remembrance of aught else besides Thee, that he may become pure in Thy love, sincere in his devotion to Thee, and obedient to Thy decree   BH09446

The influence of words hath ever depended and shall depend upon sanctification of self. One pure deed will cause the essence of earth to transcend the heavens and reach the Dayspring of Revelation.   BH00571

A clear mind, a pure heart and a concentrated attention are the requisites for that spiritual inter-communication. Like unto a mirror, man's heart and mind must be purified, clarified and polished.   ABU2405

Be ye pure in heart before God such that your feet slip not and your souls be not troubled... such that the signs of sanctity may appear from your faces and the lights of detachment from your temples   BH02697

to grant that they who are dear to Thee, and their children, and their kindred, may become the revealers of Thy purity amidst Thy creatures, and the manifestations of Thy sanctity amongst Thy servants   BH08265

those gems of sanctity who shone forth like morning stars at the dawn of creation - namely, those women who were dawning-places of the signs of faithfulness and who, with pure hearts and radiant faces   AB06295

Beware, O handmaiden of God! Guard thyself with utmost vigilance lest there appear from thee that which thy Master, the Most High, the Supreme, the Most Loving, would abhor. Conceal thyself from all eyes  BH02828

Today the glance of the favor of His Holiness, Baha'u'llah is directed to those souls who are full of the love of God, are detached from self and passion and are reflectors of purity, sanctity and piety.  AB04311

Glorified be He in Whose grasp lies the kingdom of the pure realms of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them. Therefore, on that Day, praise ye God with exalted praise in the true religion.  BB00004

Be certain that your pure intention will definitely yield results and divine confirmations will surely be attained... so that with a pure heart and joyous soul you may succeed in serving the Kingdom of God.   AB01322

But when God gazed upon your hearts, He found them pure pages and made them luminous, becoming the envy of the heavens. He placed this crown of guidance upon your heads and clothed you in this robe of bounty  AB04012

We beseech God that He may aid them to do that which is befitting, that they may, in utmost sanctity and detachment, engage in the remembrance of the Goal of all the worlds and attain the fruit of existence.   BH02991

Be thou a mountain of quiescence, a sign of meekness, a sea of patience, a light of love, a standard of utter separation (from all else save God), so that thou mayest become everlasting in the Kingdom of God.  AB00672

And the glory be upon thee and upon whosoever hath heard the call of God and hath answered it with a pure heart and an eloquent tongue, and hath turned toward the Dayspring of the Cause with a sanctified soul.  BH08471

When the lamp of truthfulness is kindled in the chamber of the heart, all the parts, members, powers and characteristics become illumined and resplendent like crystal glass from this brilliant and shining lamp.  AB10433

Whoso hath not purified his heart and his breast and his sight and his hearing from that which he possesseth, he shall not be able to understand what hath been revealed in truth in the Tablets of manifest glory.  BH00004

How excellent is the state of those souls who in this day manifest complete sincerity, such that every possessor of spiritual sense can detect from them the fragrance of the sanctified Garment of the All-Merciful.   BH04068

Blessed is the servant who hath cast away vain desire and taken unto himself the fear of God, and hath purified his heart from all rancor and hatred, and who associateth with all people in a spirit of fragrant joy.   BH01454

This attribute is among the most glorious virtues of the human world: that one's vision be pure and sanctified. Purify thy vision from human limitations and let not thy sight turn away from this Most Sublime Vision.   AB04268

And none can ever achieve this except he who hath purged his heart from whatsoever is created between heaven and earth, and hath entirely detached himself from all but God, the sovereign Lord, the Almighty, the Gracious.  BH00354

And it is for this that we have given thee inspiration and revealed to thee our verses, that that mayest show thy mettle in the Cause of thy Lord, calling mankind to this path, for thee to be of those who are well guided.  BH02115

Ask thou of God that He may sanctify the hems of His servants from the dust of self and passion. The penetrating influence of the Word hath ever been and will continue to be dependent upon the sanctification of the heart.  BH07947

make thee a pure servant, exempt from all material desires, sanctified and severed from all save God, that thou mayest be characterized with the attributes of the heavenly angels, cleansed from all desires and earthly wishes  AB08998

Purify yourselves from the veils of idle fancy and your breasts from all doubt. Thus have We commanded you aforetime, and now through a holy and exalted Pen. Then purify your tongues for the remembrance of God, the Most Great  BH02860

"Just as the heart - the invisible Shekinah - must be a rosegarden - fragrant, delicate, so also the body must be kept clean and pure - letting the outward appearance be a key to the inward clearness, transparency and purity."  ABU2264

This is impossible unless we purify the hem of sanctification and illumine the face of morality, such that we shine like the sun among all communities and move like banners on the hills of nations from the breeze of providence.   AB00993

This is the time for sanctification and purification, and the moment for intense attachment. Pure and holy breaths must reach the Sacred Threshold, and the subtle, ethereal spirit may ascend to the zenith of the highest horizon.  AB00190

I pray God to make you pure and clean from self and desire, obedient to the command of the Lord, attracted by the breaths of God, steadfast in pure intention in the love of God, constant in good deeds and complete sanctification.   AB04143

Let them arise with utmost chastity, with consummate purity, with steadfastness in the Cause, and faithfulness in the Covenant. Let them distinguish themselves through the illumination of their hearts, their unsullied spirituality.   AB04641

Even the smallest of deeds could lead to manifest loss in this day if it is not performed for the sake of God; even the barest word is capable of causing fires to blaze if uttered without motives that are purely for the sake of God.   AB01013

The temple of being is My throne; cleanse it of all things, that there I may be established and there I may abide. Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for My descent. Thy spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse it for My manifestation.  BH00386

The fish that swimmeth in the divine ocean is pure and sanctified and doth not bear the qualities of the bird of worldliness and defilement. The birds of the garden of the love of God defileth not their wings with the dross of the human world.  AB01734

As long as the mirror is not polished from the dust, the rays of the sun shall not become manifest and revealed therein. For the appearance of the ray of the Sun which is the love of God depends upon the transparency and clearness of the mirror.  AB10784

O my handmaiden! You have become aware of the characteristics of the Beauty of Oneness and have learned of the sanctification of the Ancient Being. Inform the handmaidens of God so that they may purify themselves from that which God does not love.   BH11391

I testify that Thou art pure, purifying, and purified. Nay, God hath sanctified Thee beyond such mention and purified Thee beyond such praise, for all that turneth toward Thee becometh pure, and every fire that draweth nigh unto Thee becometh light.   BB00248

Today it is incumbent upon all to hold fast to the cord of sanctity and to grasp the hem of purity. O brother! The pearl of the Cause has remained hidden due to unseemly deeds, and this is the universal cause that has led to the hesitation of humanity.  BH00721

Endeavor thou, as far as thou canst, in order that thou mayest be like unto a chaste and clear mirror, cleansed and purified from every dust, so that the outpouring of the rays of the Sun of Truth may descend and thou mayest illumine those who are around thee.  AB01721

Then I beseech Thee, O my God, to purify their hearts from the dust of contingent things and the soil of created things, that the mirrors of their hearts may be cleansed and there may be reflected therein the wondrous splendors of the lights of Thy luminous beauty  BH00915

If thou wilt purify thy heart from attachment to the world and all that is therein, and with a holy and merciful spirit enter the right side of the blessed vale of divine oneness in Sinai, then in this case thou art permitted and it is fitting and timely.  BH11712

"A man's heart may be pure and white though his outer skin be black; or his heart be dark and sinful though his racial color is white. The character and purity of the heart is of all importance. The heart illumined by the light of God is nearest and dearest to God."  ABU0573

Every precious and desirable thing has thieves in pursuit of it. Therefore, you must preserve with the utmost effort and striving the pearls of divine love--which are the most excellent, delicate and beautiful jewels of the world--within the treasuries of your hearts.   BH10209

Therefore, O God, purify the hearts of Thy loved ones through the manifestation of the authority of Thy transcendence and exaltation, and the dominion of Thy sovereignty and inaccessibility, until Thou causest all to enter, through Thy bounty, into Thy good-pleasure   BB00664

arise with heart and soul to commemorate the Best-Beloved of the worlds, regard all else as non-existent, hold fast to His Name, the Self-Subsisting, and manifest goodly conduct and praiseworthy character, so that all handmaidens may witness in thee the signs of God.   BH08715

Sanctify yourselves, O people, from this world, then hasten to the Ultimate Lote-Tree in this Farthest Mosque, that ye may hearken unto the call of your Lord, the All-Merciful, in this Paradise which hath been created by the Kawthar of life from the very Spirit of Glory.   BH01459

Blessed are you, for We found your letter sanctified from mention of any but Me. This befits those who have in this Day acknowledged this wondrous Cause - that they remember the One Who hath remembered them and exalt the one who hath bowed before His sovereignty and power.   BH09475

If the speaker's intention is pure, if his heart is transparent, no matter through how many translators the words may go, the audience is touched... You must purify your heart. This is the most important thing, otherwise all your learning and philosophy will not assist you.  ABU0896

For at its gate stand the denizens of the all-highest Paradise and its chosen ones, who will not permit entry into this blessed and sublime station until they find one purified and sanctified from all human allusions, earthly indications, personal imaginings and idle fancies.  BH02345

O Friends! Extinguish the lamp of error and kindle within your hearts and souls the everlasting beacons of guidance, for ere long the assayers of all being will accept naught but the purest virtue in the presence of the Adored One, and naught but spotless deeds shall be accepted by Him.   BH00426

O loved ones of God! Hasten forth from the narrow wastes of self and passion unto the hallowed expanses of the Divine and take up your abode in the garden of sanctity and detachment, that the fragrance of your deeds may cause all creation to turn towards the shores of the glory of oneness.  BH00513

If you serve someone, do not allow this hypocrisy to enter your heart, so that your service and your charity may be true to God, and its effects more enduring. As far as you can, you must be charitable without the slightest hint of hypocrisy and without any expectation of result or reward.   ABU1168

Therefore, when a person of pure heart and sanctified mind becomes, like a mirror, free from the rust of attachment to all else but God, he draws from the lights of the Sun of Reality, becoming a polished surface reflecting those lights, a discoverer of mysteries, a source of joy to the righteous.  AB09094

Our hearts must be like the hearts of the children which are without any deceit or dust. The susceptibilities of the children rule over their wills. If the children do not love some one they do not approach him. Of double-dealing they know nothing. They are not hypocritical. Their outward and inward are one.  ABU0005

O servant! Purify your ears that ye may hear My melodies, then your eyes that ye may behold My beauty. Thus hath God commanded you in all the Tablets and in this Tablet which hath appeared and shone forth from the horizon of the finger of your Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted, and God is witness unto this.  BH02388

Sanctify thyself from all that veils thee from the beauty of the Divine Essence, in such wise that thou shalt dwell only in His remembrance, walk only in His name, sleep only by His leave, arise only at His bidding, drink only of His love, gaze only upon His beauty, seek only His presence, and desire only His meeting   BH05672

O people! Purify your hearts that the lights of your Lord's revelation, the Merciful, the Compassionate, may be imprinted thereon. Then purify your tongues that they may move in remembrance of your Creator, for this is better for you than all that hath been created between the heavens and the earth, were ye but to know.  BH11700

Then take leave with the intention of return, and turn thy face to the tomb in tranquility, and do not turn to anything in the sanctuary, and do not speak with anything, not even thyself. For whosoever in the sanctuary points to aught save his Lord hath been veiled from beholding His presence and from gazing upon His beauty.  BB00077

Be far removed from physical needs and worldliness so that the powers of the All-Merciful will become manifest in thee. I beseech God that with every passing day thou shalt increase the purity of thy heart, the joy within thy spirit, the luminous character of thy vision and the intensity of thy fervour in seeking for the truth.   AB06843

Upon what does capacity depend? It depends upon sanctity, purity of heart, attentiveness to the kingdom, detachment from the world, and the glorification and praise of God. Unless this capacity be obtained the bounties of the kingdom of Abha will not be resplendent, and the light of the Sun of Reality will not be effective in us.  ABU0574

This day is the day of purification, the day of sanctification, the day of turning toward God, the day of severance from all else save God, the day of lowliness and humiliation, the day of serving the beloved ones of God, the day of becoming utterly destitute of and free from egotism and desire and the day of purity and sacrifice in the path of God.   AB07053

Your hearts must be pure and your intentions sincere in order that you may become recipients of the divine bestowals. Consider that although the sun shines equally upon all things, yet in the clear mirror its reflection is most brilliant and not in the black stone. This great effulgence and heat have been produced by the crystal clearness of the glass.   ABU0666

Sincerity is the foundation-stone of faith. That is, a religious individual must disregard his personal desires and seek in whatever way he can wholeheartedly to serve the public interest; and it is impossible for a human being to turn aside from his own selfish advantages and sacrifice his own good for the good of the community except through true religious faith.  AB00004

I implore Thee to help Thy chosen ones through Thy strengthening grace to conform unto that which shall please Thee and to purge them from whatsoever might soil the hem of their garments in Thy days... Sanctify them, O Lord, with this life-giving water whereby Thou hast sanctified the well-favoured among Thy people and the loved ones who are wholly devoted to Thee.   BH02896

Come ye forth before the All-Knowing, the All-Seeing, and the All-Powerful with hearts pure from desire and defilement, and minds cleansed from the colors of creation, and bring forth that which befitteth His Day. Through three things shall the Meeting be attained and deliverance made manifest: purity of heart, purity of sight, and purity of hearing from that which hath been heard.  BH01362

Likewise must they purify their hearing and sight to such degree that names will not prevent them from turning towards Him, nor will the veils of beauty and the clouds of majesty hold them back from the Self-Subsisting Lord. In brief, they must sanctify their thoughts from the mention of all else but God, that they may become worthy to turn towards Him and capable of drawing near.   BH01168

Verily I say: Incline your ears to My sweet voice, and sanctify yourselves from the defilement of your evil passions and corrupt desires. They who dwell within the tabernacle of God, and are established upon the seats of everlasting glory, will refuse, though they be dying of hunger, to stretch their hands and seize unlawfully the property of their neighbor, however vile and worthless he may be.  BH02224

The third virtue of humanity is goodly intention, which is the foundation of all good deeds. Some seekers after truth have held intention to be superior to action, for a goodly intention is absolute light and is entirely sanctified from the least trace of malice, scheming, or deception. Now, one can perform an action which appears to be righteous but which is in reality prompted by self-interest.   AB00063

Whenever you desire to enter a Baha'i meeting first purify your hearts from all outside questions, put aside all the material or physical emotions, be ye in the utmost holiness and sanctification, be ye the channels for the love of God, then be ye occupied with the mention of the name of God, hearken to the heavenly words and advices of His Holiness Baha'u'llah, deliver eloquent and inspiring addresses.   ABU1129

Due to people's lack of awareness of divine commands, these words were heard from the tongue of unity as a favor to them: God forgives what is past. We beseech God to assist them in sanctification, purification and acting upon what they have been commanded by the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Every person of insight inhales the fragrance of sanctification and holiness from the Ancient Beauty's rejection of those souls  BH01008

Therefore, O thou who hast turned towards God, purify thine inmost heart from all impediments to righteousness [as-sadad] in the reality of true guidance [ar-rashad], and weigh all divine questions with this just, accurate, and glorious balance which God hath elucidated in the unerring Qur'an and the Great Announcement, that thou mayest drink from the fount of certitude, savor the truth of certitude, be guided unto the Straight Path, and walk in the way of righteousness.   AB00207

The Tongue of Grandeur speaks regarding the purity of intentions and deeds in all aspects, and concerning souls being wholly devoted to God, turned toward His direction, and enriched by His riches above all else... [through the entire parable of the wealthy and poor persons] ... unless the deed of that first wealthy one in all those favors he showed was purely out of humanity, solely for the sake of God, and the deed of that latter wealthy one likewise was for God and in God without consideration of past or future.  BHU0001

O Friends of the Pure and Omnipotent God! To be pure and holy in all things is an attribute of the consecrated soul and a necessary characteristic of the unenslaved mind. The best of perfections is immaculacy and the freeing of oneself from every defect. Once the individual is, in every respect, cleansed and purified, then will he become a focal centre reflecting the Manifest Light. First in a human being's way of life must be purity, then freshness, cleanliness, and independence of spirit. First must the stream bed be cleansed, then may the sweet river waters be led into it.  AB00109

Choose ye nothing for yourselves except what ye desire for God, the Lord of the worlds. Do no deed except with sincerity for God, the Lord of the worlds. Listen to no word except that ye listen through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Look at nothing except that ye look through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Bear witness to nothing except that ye bear witness through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Speak not except through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Preserve nothing except through God for God, the Lord of the worlds. Spend nothing except in the path of God - this is better for you with God if ye be of God.  BB00004

Purify ye your names from that which God loveth not to be heard, that ye may prosper. Purify ye your eyes from that which God loveth not to be seen, that ye may prosper. Purify ye your hearts from that which God loveth not to witness, that ye may prosper. Purify ye your tongues from that which God loveth not to be uttered, that ye may prosper. Purify ye your hands from that which God loveth not to be written, that ye may prosper. Purify ye your breasts from that which God loveth not to contain, that ye may prosper. And purify ye your hearts that ye be not veiled by anything from God, that ye may prosper on the Day of Resurrection before your Lord.  BB00004

His holiness Christ says that children are the people of the Kingdom, because they are pure and unsullied by the World.   AB03652


When the interior parts of musical instruments become clear and polished, their tone will take effect and warm the hearts.  AB06079

"Their hearts are like pure mirrors. They are in utmost cleanliness. When the hearts of the grown people become as pure then the Kingdom of God will come on earth. Children in their childhood are beloved because of the purity of their hearts."  ABU2725
