
O people! Ye have stepped out of nothingness into the realm of being that ye may reconstruct the world. Dissension and strife ill beseem the station of a human being. In this day, should a soul become the cause of sorrow to another soul, no matter from which Faith, this would not be pleasing to this Wronged One. Unto this bear witness both Mine inner and outer tongue, and beyond them every wise and discerning, every learned and attentive soul. The fundamental purpose of religion as brought down from the heaven of divine Revelation is harmony and union among all people. BH00219

The earth of the knowledge of the All-Merciful was observed to be ruined and desolate. We therefore sent forth the Mature Cultivator and Wise Physician to cut away, through perfect remedies, the corrupt roots and worthless weeds, and to nurture that earth through the rains of divine commandments, that it might become a place for the growth of goodly plants and fruit-bearing trees. This is the purpose of sending forth the Messengers and revealing the Books.  BH08724

If the light of religion did not exist, this world would be a realm of darkness, and if the spirit of life and guidance did not exist, humanity would be imprisoned in the grave  AB01258

the dawning of the Morn of Guidance - the appearance of the Bab, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him - and the rising of the Sun of Truth - the Ancient Beauty - and the endurance of all these hardships and tribulations were for the purpose that love and fellowship might be manifested in the human world  AB11812

And the teaching is that the true object of religion, of spiritual progress, is to make every soul reflect the Divine. Each soul must become radiant as a lamp.  ABU1070

His purpose in this supreme mercy and mighty favor hath been and still is the recognition of Him by His servants.  BH04698

The principle aim of this Movement is to investigate Reality and promote the underlying unity of the world's religions.   ABU2338

All the Prophets and Chosen Ones have been commanded by God, exalted be His glory, to water the trees of human existence from the Euphrates of refinement and wisdom, that there might appear from all that which God has deposited within them. Every tree has its visible fruit, as can be observed. A fruitless tree is fit only for the fire. The purpose of what they have commanded and taught has been the preservation of the stations and ranks of the human world.  BH02956

Make not the religion of God a cause of variance among you. Verily of a truth, it was revealed for the unifying of the whole world.  BH11456

The purpose of all creation hath been and ever shall be the recognition of the Ancient Being and the assurance of attaining His presence.  BH11760

The purpose of the divine teachings and exhortations is precisely this: to aid us to become perfect people. It is not given merely for reading.   ABU2838

For this Most Great Revelation has been dedicated to the salvation and reformation and unity and harmony and tranquility of the peoples of the world.  BH01598

a new order of things must come, but it must be built upon a solid foundation, and religion, which was the love of God, was the only solid foundation.  ABU3626


The object of all the religions has been the moral progress of the race;- then the illumination of the world will be assured and the prosperity of mankind obtained.   ABU2098

"those possessed of insight know with clear certainty that there has been and is no purpose save the refinement of souls and the manifestation of true divine unity."   BH01621


The Prophets of God and the divine Books have all been for the guidance of humanity, that perchance they might attain unto the station of true liberty and spiritual freedom.  BH09264

Their purpose hath been and still is the guidance of mankind. Whatsoever is the cause of preservation of the servants and the exaltation of their stations is recorded in the Books.   BH06753

Ever has God's purpose in sending Messengers, revealing Books, establishing firm laws and ordained religions been several things, among them the preservation of souls and their rights   BH01642

God is witness and aware that this Wronged One's purpose and desire is to remove strife, corruption and conflict from the world and to purify the hearts of all peoples from rancor and hatred.   BH02012

I declare by the Sun of Truth, which has shone forth from the highest horizon of the world, that the people of Baha had not and have not any aim save the prosperity and reformation of the world and the purifying of the nations.  BH11358

The purpose underlaying the revelation of every heavenly Book, nay, of every divinely-revealed verse, is to endue all men with righteousness and understanding, so that peace and tranquillity may be firmly established amongst them.  BH04829

Our purpose is to educate people, to improve morals, to unite the world of humanity and to make bonds between the East and the West. Our aim is to create love, amity, and integrity, to increase respect for truth and righteousness.  AB03382

In brief, the purpose of the Wronged One is to transform the fire of hatred in the world's heart into the light of love. This Cause moveth above the religions of the world. This Bird hath another nest, and this Tongue another utterance.   BH00859

The purpose of creation hath been the revelation of these days and His recognition. True bliss and blessedness, nay the very essence of the spirit, belong to those souls who have attained this most great bounty and reached this supreme joy.  BH03223

Religions guide to love - why should we show enmity? All the Prophets came for fellowship and unity, each enduring a thousand afflictions. Why should we be thus and waste the labors of the Prophets, using God's law as a pretext? What compels us to this?  ABU0154

This is God's design for man - first descent through matter and then ascent through spirit, to teach him and develop him. A child must learn the alphabet before it can read, and the soul must gain self-consciousness through matter before it can know God.  ABU0299

In brief, the purpose of religion is the essential relationships of the unity of the human world. This is the foundation of divine religion, this is the everlasting bounty of God, these are the divine teachings and laws, this is the light of eternal life.  AB00279

the foundation of the Baha'i Cause is fellowship between all peoples and religions, and political discussions cause division and create opposition and prejudice. Therefore our path is purely spiritual, so that we may become the cause of illumination of the human world.  AB11190

all the prophets are sent by God for the guidance of the people; for the enlightenment of the minds of the inhabitants of the earth; for the promotion of the Word of Truth; for the education and instruction of the ignorant and for the disappearance of the gloom of prejudices  ABU2815

The world was created for the knowledge of God, glorified be His majesty. Yet when the Purpose was made manifest and the proof was perfected and the verses were revealed and the evidences were resplendent, all turned away and occupied themselves with denunciation and cursing.  BH11606

The atoms of created things bear witness and the realities of all contingent beings testify that this servant had and has no purpose in the manifestation and proclamation of the Cause except the salvation of the servants and the extinguishing of the fire of hatred and enmity.  BH02329

Religion consists of the perfections of the human world, the promotion of human perfections, and this is achieved through divine teachings. The Holy Manifestations of God appear for this: to teach the perfections of the human world and promote the perfections of the human world.  ABU0519

They must keep the religion of God pure and uncontaminated, a haven of rest for the despondent souls, a safe harbor for the shipwrecked, a divine antidote for the ailing ones, a torch of light for those who are groping in the darkness, and a spiritual democracy for the down-trodden and the outcast.   ABU0722

so that the oneness of the world of humanity might be established, the foundation of estrangement might be demolished, and the beauty of unity might be manifested; that the people of the world might be educated and attain to divine illumination, seek heavenly bounty and desire the happiness of both worlds   AB00487

From the days of Adam until today, the religions of God have been made manifest, one following the other, and each one of them fulfilled its due function, revived mankind, and provided education and enlightenment. They freed the people from the darkness of the world of nature and ushered them into the brightness of the Kingdom.   AB00829


God has founded religion so that it might be the bond of amity and mutual association between the peoples. His Holiness the Christ did not sacrifice his life so that the people might believe the doctrine that he is the word of God; nay, rather he gave his life so that he might bestow the consciousness of eternal life to the world of humanity.  ABU0018

Think not that ye were created, sustained, caused to die and brought to life merely to begin from clay, then enjoy your lives, then return to clay. Rather, ye were created to know God your Creator, to glorify God your Sustainer, to sanctify God Who causeth you to die, to unify God Who giveth you life, and to magnify God Who bringeth you into being.  BB00005

Hence the prophets have been set forth and the holy Scriptures revealed - so that they may provide an ample provision for the "spirit wants" of men, nurture them in the school of lofty idealism and enable them to extricate themselves from the capricious, binding laws of nature and give them the power to soar towards the realm of sanctity and spirituality.  ABU0779

For what purpose did God send Moses? For what object did Christ appear? What was the mission of His Holiness Mohamad? Why did His Holiness the Bab step forth upon the arena of the world? For what cause did His Holiness Baha'u'llah manifest Himself? The answer is: The appearance of all these divine men is for no other reason save the education of the world of humanity.  ABU0692

Thus it became clear and evident that these ties are insufficient and that the true and correct bond is religion, for religion guides toward the unity of humankind, serves the world of morals, purifies hearts, adorns man with praiseworthy attributes, is the cause of love between hearts - for religion is a divine foundation, and the divine foundation is the cause of life.  ABU0039

All the different religions of God that have risen on the face of the earth have one purpose: to educate man and to inform him of the spiritual, the luminous, the divine, so that he may partake of heavenly spirit and find eternal life, show forth the virtues of mankind, and from a world of darkness enter a world of light. There is no other reality of meaning to the different religions. Their purpose is one, the teaching is one.   ABU0302

The supreme and most important happening in the human world is the Manifestation of God and the descent of the law of God. The holy, divine Manifestations did not reveal themselves for the purpose of founding a nation, sect or faction. They did not appear in order that a certain number might acknowledge Their Prophethood. They did not declare Their heavenly mission and message in order to lay the foundation for a religious belief. Even Christ did not become manifest that we should merely believe in Him as the Christ, follow Him and adore His mention. All these are limited in scope and requirement, whereas the reality of Christ is an unlimited essence. The infinite and unlimited Reality cannot be bounded by any limitation. Nay, rather, Christ appeared in order to illumine the world of humanity, to render the earthly world celestial, to make the human kingdom a realm of angels, to unite the hearts, to enkindle the light of love in human souls, so that such souls might become independent, attaining complete unity and fellowship, turning to God, entering into the divine Kingdom, receiving the bounties and bestowals of God and partaking of the manna from heaven. Through Christ they were intended to be baptized by the Holy Spirit, attain a new spirit and realize the everlasting life. All the holy precepts and the announcements of prophetic laws were for these various and heavenly purposes. ABU0020


What is the purpose of Prophethood? Why has God sent the Prophets? It is self-evident that the Prophets are the Educators of men and the Teachers of the human race. They come to bestow universal education upon humanity, to give humanity training, to uplift the human race from the abyss of despair and desolation and to enable man to attain the apogee of advancement and glory. The people are in darkness; the Prophets bring them into the realm of light. They are in a state of utter imperfection; the Prophets imbue them with perfections. The purpose of the prophetic mission is none other than the education and guidance of the people.  ABU0002

I swear by the Sun of the heaven of inner meanings which hath shone forth from the most exalted horizon of the world: this Wronged One hath had no purpose except the edification of the world, the education of the nations, the refinement of souls, and the unification of hearts. His intention is to cleanse the world through the waters of remembrance and utterance from rancor and hatred, that perchance religious strife and conflict, which are the cause and reason for the shedding of blood and the upheaval of the world of humanity, might be removed from its midst, so that all who dwell on earth might be adorned with the ornament of unity and concord and illumined with the light of love and harmony.  BH00118

Although those souls who concentrated their thoughts and remembrance on the acquisition of other human perfections - for example, renowned physicians and philosophers - succeeded in their aims, made great scientific discoveries, established civilization and prosperity on earth, strove for the progress and success of humanity, and were noble souls, yet none of them could, like the servants of God in the early days of the Manifestation of the holy divine Manifestations, exert such influence in the human world, deliver vast multitudes from the darkness of limitation and imperfection and bring them into a luminous world, serve the world of morals, become the cause of promoting human virtues, establish praiseworthy character, and promote the unity of the human race.  ABU0144

His teachings are the cause of the life of humanity; his teachings unify mankind; his teachings render eternal honour to man; his teachings are the cause of the sublimity of human nature; his teachings cause man to attain to progress and prosperity. His teachings are conducive to man's entrance into the Kingdom  ABU0659
