
and hast partaken of the sealed wine, with a single drop of which none in existence can compare. That wine is the wine of the recognition of God, of which most people today are debarred and deprived. The whole world was created for it, yet they are seen to be veiled except for those souls who through His Name have detached themselves from all else and turned toward His horizon. BH06080

The supreme cause for creating the world and all that is therein is for man to know God.  BH02898

I created creation for My knowledge   BH07826

I created creation for My knowledge.   BH05507

All have been created for the divine meeting  BH10563

and attain unto the ultimate purpose of creation   BH09332

The purpose of creation hath been the knowledge of God  BH11517

Knowledge of the Best-Beloved of the worlds is the ultimate purpose of creation   BH08888

all have been created for His recognition and His Day   BH09038

We beseech Him to kindle in the breast of the world the fire of seeking, that all may turn in devotion toward the most exalted horizon, the supreme perspective, and the ultimate goal. This is the fruit of existence and the cause of creation. BH07404

in both heaven and earth there exist living beings. Thus it became known that all these luminous bodies are inhabited and the light of truth certainly shines and radiates in all of them. God did not create these infinite luminous bodies in vain.  AB07239

I created you for My recognition, would that ye might know.   BH10300

The primary purpose of creation hath been the recognition of God  BH10003

The entire world hath been created for the service of God's Cause   BH04189

He hath created the world for the remembrance of the Ancient King   BH09257

It beareth glad-tidings of that which hath been ordained for mankind.  BH11427

thou hast attained unto that for which existence itself came into being  BH05243

O friends! Man hath been created for this blessed and wondrous Day.  BH07129

God, exalted be His glory, hath created His servants for His recognition.  BH04007

Know that God hath not created all these existing things without purpose.  AB09727

Know thou that God hath not created all these existent things without a purpose.  AB09727

I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee.  BH11209

Know then that the purpose of creation hath ever been and shall ever be the knowledge of God  BH02135

He created and showed the way that all might attain to that which was the purpose of creation   BH04703

O servants, hasten that ye may attain to that for which ye were created from nothingness.   BH08147

God's purpose in creation hath been bounty and grace. Assuredly He hath willed the good of all.  BH07895

We desire naught on earth save the betterment of the world and the edification of its peoples.   BH04243

All the peoples of the world have been created to know God, exalted be His glory and sovereignty  BH03335

Existence has come forth from nothingness into the realm of being for the recognition of this Day.  BH08615

The fruit of human existence hath ever been the recognition of God and the promotion of His Cause.   BH08733

I have created all contingent beings for My knowledge and brought forth all creation for My Cause.   BH02865

Thou hast created the creation in order to reveal Thy grace and manifest Thy munificence and bounty.  BH08635

Verily, He hath come for the reformation of the world and the refinement of the souls of His servants   BH01806

The whole world was created that in this blessed Day it might attain to the remembrance of the Beloved.   BH07224

this supreme Manifestation has come for the reformation of the world and the advancement of the peoples   BH10983

He hath created creation for His knowledge and ordained for them that which draweth them nigh unto Him.   BH08227

I testify that Thou hast created me to know the Dayspring of Thy signs and the Dawning-Place of Thy Cause.   BH09923

first, the mention of God, glorified be His majesty, which is the purpose for which all worlds were created   BH09699

He hath created all things for this Day - to this testify all the Books of God, yet the people perceive not.   BH07255

There can be no doubt that the purpose of creation hath ever been the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory.   BH00528

We have created creation for My days and sent the Messengers to give them the glad-tidings of this Revelation   BH08531

He hath created all things for the knowledge of His Self and brought forth all existence to follow His Command   BH02390

I have created all things that they may know Me and worship Me, and that they may not associate anyone with Me.   BB00234

You have sought to attain My presence, and you are justified in this, for all have been created for this purpose.  BH04664

The entire world hath been brought into existence from nothingness for the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory.   BH04118

God, exalted be His Glory, hath manifested Himself for the reformation of the world and the education of its peoples.   BH07384

Thus man must strive that his reality may manifest virtues and perfections, the light whereof may shine upon everyone.  BH00223

We have created man and taught him utterance that he might make mention of his Lord between the heavens and the earths.  BH01855

He hath created creation as a manifestation of His bounty and power, and as an expression of His grace and providence.   BH07697

He hath created all things for the recognition of the Manifestation of His Self and the Dawning-Place of His Revelation.  BH06593

Praise be to God Who created creation for His knowledge and for attaining what He ordained for them through His bounty.   BH02824

The purpose of the creation of the world and the fashioning of Adam hath been the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory.   BH06755

God has cast these thoughts into our minds only so that this world might prosper; apart from this, they are of no importance.  ABU3750

The Truth, exalted be His station, whatever He hath ordained and doth ordain hath been and shall be for the elevation of souls.  BH07588

Thou art He Who created the servants for the recognition of the Dawning-Place of Thy signs and the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens   BH06682


We must look at the realities and not the appearances. The end is the only wise thing to consider. In everything God has a purpose.  ABU1236

He hath made the cause of the creation of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them to be thy meeting with thy Lord  BB00506

The True One, exalted be His glory, hath created the servants for His recognition and brought them forth from nothingness into being.   BH10723

All the world and its servants and handmaidens have been brought from nothingness into being specifically for the knowledge of God...   BH03770

Your eyes were created to behold My signs, your ears to hear My call, and your hands to grasp My Book, if ye be of them that understand.  BH01222

There hath been and continues to be no doubt that the purpose of creation hath been the knowledge and praise of the Beloved of the worlds.  BH02981

The purpose of God--glorified be His majesty--in creating the means of heaven and earth hath been the ease, comfort and progress of His servants   BH03761

If the aim were this physical life only, then this creation would be in vain and men would not have more honor or be nobler than other creatures   ABU1611

It is evident to your honour that the purpose of creation hath ever been and shall remain the recognition of God and attainment unto His presence.   BH00958

Thou hast created all things from nothing that they might worship Thee, prostrate themselves before Thee, magnify Thee, exalt Thee and sanctify Thee.   BB00253

Every tree has a fruit and every shadow an effect and so is every seed sown in the heart of man, and his influence (man's) has a purpose and a result.  ABU1236

Dost thou imagine that We created thee for aught else but to worship God, thy Lord? Say: Glory be to God! I am, verily, the first of them that worship.  BB00087

God, exalted be His glory, hath brought forth creation from the realm of nothingness that it may be the cause and means for the development of the world.  BH04352

The All-Merciful hath created humankind for the adornment of this contingent world, so that men may array the earth with the manifold blessings of Heaven  AB03799

The purpose of man's creation hath been the knowledge of the All-Merciful and the observance of whatsoever hath been sent down from the heaven of His Will.  BH09820

The eyes were created to behold My horizon, the ears to hearken unto My verses, and the hearts to love Me, the Mighty. Yet the people remain in evident veils.   BH03340

The primary purpose in creating the world hath been for men to know the Beauty of the Pre-existent One. Whoso achieveth this purpose hath attained unto all good.  BH09037

I have created all things for My Cause and brought all beings into existence for the knowledge of My Self, that We might bring them to a station of glorious dignity.   BH02511

The purpose of this Revelation is the purification of hearts from hatred and rancor, that perchance the peoples of the world may be illumined with the light of unity.   BH08560

for this is the purpose of creation and being - otherwise what fruit would there be in this fleeting two-day life and what benefit and effect would this creation have?  ABU2992

God, exalted be His glory, brought these creatures from nothingness into being for the recognition of this blessed Day and the knowledge of Him Who hath appeared therein  BH05607

The Baha'i Movement bestows upon man a new spirit, a new light and a new motion. It enlarges the sphere of thought. It illumines the horizon of the intellect. It expands the arena of comprehension. This is the ultimate goal of human life. This is the fruit of existence. This is the brilliant pearl of cosmic consciousness. This is the shining star of spiritual destiny.   ABU1777

they appear as though they were created to serve the material world, rather than the material world being created for their service and the manifestation of human perfections  ABU2996

May you become thirsty for the water of Reality! May you become hungry for the Bread of the Kingdom! It was in this instance that His Holiness Christ says: He that drinketh of this water shall never thirst! This means the infinite bestowals of God; the virtues of the Divine world, the perfections of the world of humanity and the ideals of the heavenly realm. May you receive day unto day these bounties! May you draw nearer unto God day unto day! May you be submerged in the sea of these iridescent lights! May you be characterized with these praiseworthy virtues! This is the ultimate result of human life! This is the fruit of existence! This is the brilliant pearl of cosmic consciousness. This is the shining star of spiritual destiny!  ABU2490

There can be no doubt that the Ancient Lord created the people of the world for His own recognition, and the tradition "I was a hidden treasure" bears witness to this statement.  BH03113

the world was created and nations emerged from the realm of nothingness into being so that perchance they might discover and know the cause and reason for their existence and creation   BH07154

O my God! Thou didst not create anything except for those who know Thee and proclaim Thy unity and prostrate themselves before Thee and are detached from all else and stand firm in Thy Cause.   BB00150

Say: By God! Ye were created for this blessed, promised Day, and were commanded to serve the Cause in the Revelation of God and His sovereignty which overshadoweth every witness and witnessed thing.   BH09749

This is the fruit of the tree of creation - to be freed from the darkness of the planet in order to enter the worlds of light. This is the object of existence; this is the fruit of the tree of humanity.  ABU1155

For one of the primary reasons for the creation of the world is what was mentioned - namely, that beneficent and charitable works from assured souls should be remembered and all should attain unto them.   BH00964

Yet man must ever remember the earth plane is a workshop, not an art gallery for the exhibits of powers. This is not the plane of perfection, but earth is the crucible for refining and moulding character   ABU2410

He hath created creation for His knowledge and commanded them with that which draweth them nigh unto God, the Lord of all worlds. The first is not realized except through the second, as testifieth His preserved Tablet.   BH08154

All have been created out of nothingness for the recognition of this Revelation. Blessed is the soul whom the turning away of the peoples of the earth did not prevent from attaining that which was the purpose of creation.  BH06886

Being hath come into existence from the realm of nothingness for the purpose of recognition. Were it not for this purpose, this mighty edifice would not have been raised up and these things would not have been witnessed.   BH08119

This is because the purpose of Divine law is the education of all -- others as well as oneself -- and, in the sight of God, the harm done to one individual or to his neighbour is the same and is reprehensible in both cases.  ABU0914

Man is not created by God so that he may live a material life like unto the animals. The Almighty has destined for him eternal life, spiritual existence, the perfections of the divine world and the virtues of the celestial realm.  ABU2385

All have been created for the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory, and the exaltation of His Word, and likewise have they been brought from nothingness into being for the reformation of the world and the education of its peoples.  BH04529

The cause of the creation of all contingent beings has been love, as is referred to in the well-known tradition which says: "I was a Hidden Treasure and I loved to be known, and therefore I created the creation that I might be known."  BH09439

The purpose of the creation of beings has been the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory, so that all might comprehend, through the revealed verses and manifest evidences, that which is the cause of everlasting comfort and eternal life.   BH06398

The primary purpose of God - exalted be His glory - in creating creation hath been the manifestation of bounty, mercy and loving-kindness, that all might be nurtured by the hands of grace and be adorned with the ornament of goodly character.   BH01103

Thou art He Who hath created this creation for naught else save to worship Thee, to glorify Thee, to sanctify Thee, and to follow that which hath been sent down from Thee from the places of Thy holy eternity and the wonders of Thy glorious oneness.   BB00310

His purpose hath been the reformation of the world and the tranquility of nations. This reformation and tranquility shall not appear except through unity and harmony, and this shall not be achieved except through the counsels of the Most Exalted Pen.  BH00674

The purpose of the creation of the world and of man was the appearance of the Light of the Luminary of Hijaz from the Muhammadan horizon, for through His appearance the light of unity dawned and the word There is none other God but Him was established.  BH00768

The purpose of sending the Messengers and revealing the Books hath been and still is the elevation of souls and the advancement of knowledge, that all may testify to the oneness and singleness of God and become aware of that which profiteth or harmeth them.   BH02579

Assuredly it is not to eat, nor to sleep, nor to dress, nor to repose on the couch of negligence. Nay, it is to find one's way to eternity an understand the divine signs; to receive wisdom from the Lord of Lords, and to move steadily forward like a great sea.  ABU1349

Thou didst not create the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them save in truth, that they who dwell in the kingdom of Thy earth and heaven might worship Thee, and that whatsoever existeth in the kingdom of Thy creation and majesty might prostrate before Thee.   BB00311

As to spiritual happiness, this is the true basis of the life of man because life is created for happiness, not for sorrow; for pleasure, not for grief. Happiness is life; sorrow is death. Spiritual happiness is eternal. This is a light which is not followed by darkness. This is an honor which is not followed by shame. This is a life that is not followed by death. This is an existence that is not followed by annihilation. This great blessing and precious gift is obtained by man only through the guidance of God.

Spiritual happiness is light, while sorrow is darkness. This happiness is glad-tidings, while sorrow is disappointment. This happiness is the Kingdom while sorrow is the earthly world. This happiness is life, while sorrow is non-existence. This happiness is the fundamental basis from which man is created, worlds are originated, the contingent beings have existence and the world of God appears like unto the appearance of the sun at mid-day. This happiness is but the love of God. This happiness is but the eternal might the brilliant traces of which are shining forth unto the temples of unity. Were it not for this happiness the world of existence would not have been created. AB03576

The Sun of the spiritual world has shone forth so that the hidden mysteries and protected gifts that lie within the reality of all things may become manifest and visible, and this mighty bounty may be realized in the realm of being, and these divine bestowals may be revealed, and creation may yield wondrous results   AB05883

Ye were created for naught else but the recognition of God's Self, the Supreme, the Mighty, and this is the purpose of your creation, were ye of those who know. And this is what God desired for His servants, and by this did He take from them their covenant in the immortal dust, were ye of those who are aware.   BH01775

Were there no spiritual kingdom, life would be useless. For example: We plant a tree, we water and care for it. From branches we see it advance to leaf and from leaf to fruit. Should the fruit be opened and found to contain nothing, all would be useless. So the people of common sense, studying the universe, see that creation must have a result.  ABU0495

For every things hath been created for the sake of the day of the Manifestation of God, inasmuch as He is the supreme Purpose of all things, and the ultimate End of all things. Thus when He was manifested through the revelation of the verses of His inimitable power, all things have undoubtedly achieved the utmost perfection attainable to them, the presence of God.  BB00001

He created you only for your own sakes, and provided for you only for your own sakes, and causeth you to die only for your own sakes, and will raise you up only for your own sakes, that ye may testify before God that there is none other God but He, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved. God, our Lord, the All-Merciful, created us only that we might be among them that glorify Him  BB00004

"The world of life, the world of existence is connected, each with the other. All the created beings are the members of this stupendous body. Each one is a member, and that member should not remain imperfect... For instance, we do not know what is the use of this nail. It grows and it is cut again. We see that we have the nail; but we do not know that there are a thousand wisdoms within the creation of this nail."   ABU0266

The purpose of man's existence hath been that, through the grace of the All-Merciful, he should be cleansed and purified from the defilements of creation, that he might become worthy to appear before the Greater Manifestation and enter the immortal celestial dominion of God. Should any soul fail to attain this station, no benefit would accrue to him even if he were to possess the whole earth and whatsoever is therein.  BH03017

The purpose of the creation of beings and the manifestation of existence hath been the bestowal of His grace and the expression of His generosity and bounty. Through His will He brought them from nothingness into being, and through His wisdom He ordained the means of glory and exaltation, that all might ascend the ladder of knowledge to that most great station of glory and supreme nobility which is the recognition of His sacred Being.   BH01214

God hath made all the phenomena for the sake of man and created man for Himself. All these elements in the lower Kingdoms are co-operating together to serve the world of humanity. But the Almighty fashioned man in his own image and likeness for the [sake] of His Love, for drawing the lights of divine virtues, for the manifestation of the celestial power, for the appearance of the efficacy of the Holy Spirit and for the projection of the ideals names and qualities of Divinity.  ABU1560

our days are passing quickly and life without bearing hardships and ordeals for the sake of God is without benefit and fruit in the end. If one were to ponder and reflect, which is better: to consummate one's days amidst tests and trials sustained for the love of God, or to pass them on the bed of ease? When both kinds of days have drawn to a close, the first is to be preferred, for assuredly the fruit of the tree of life is to train the spirit of man, while the second is not even worth mentioning, since it will be the cause of sorrow and regret  AB02579

In brief, if human life and the result of this infinite universe were merely that a sun should rise, a breeze should blow, a cloud should rain, a plant should grow, culminating in human existence which is the essence of creation, and if human existence were confined to the conditions of this mortal world--meaning that man should spend a few days in this earthly world amidst various afflictions, trials and pain, and then perish, and creation should end thus--in this case existence would surely be mere delirium, and creation would be but fancy and imagination, the result entirely absent and the fruit completely destroyed. Yet if they would reflect even slightly, it is clear and evident that this infinite universe has a wondrous wisdom ordained and destined for it, and a mighty result established and assured.  AB00188
