and the Vahid of the Bayan consists of the sacred Being and the thirteen Letters of the Living, among whom is Quddus, who according to the explicit text of the Bab has thirteen Vahids of mirrors under his shadow.  AB00547

As to the question about the inscription at the end of one of the blessed Tablets reading "Muhammad-Qabli-'Ali, Mine of God's Command" - if this was not a scribal error, by the precedence of Muhammad before 'Ali is meant His Holiness Quddus - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - who was known by the name Muhammad-Qabli-'Ali and who attained the supreme martyrdom in the land of Mim.   BH00831

This is that the most learned men in Persia believed in the Blessed Perfection. The first man who accepted the 1st Point was Molla Housein Boshoyoh, entitled "Gate of the Gate" (Bab-el-Bab). He was a great teacher and scientist and of high position and honor. One of the other great and learned believers was Molla Mahomet Ali of Bar Faroosh. His title was "Excellency Ghoddoos" (Holy). He was a sheik known everywhere for his wisdom, knowledge and sanctity. One of the other learned believers was Aga SeidYahya of Dara. He and his grandfather have taught nearly all the people of Persia.  ABU1010

We were all gathered in the village of Niyala and were resting at the foot of a mountain, when, at the hour of dawn, we were suddenly awakened by the stones which the people of the neighbourhood were hurling upon us from the top of the mountain. The fierceness of their attack induced our companions to flee in terror and consternation. I clothed Quddus in my own garments and despatched him to a place of safety, where I intended to join him. When I arrived, I found that he had gone. None of our companions had remained in Niyala except Tahirih and a young man from Shiraz, Mirza 'Abdullah. The violence with which we were assailed had brought desolation into our camp. I found no one into whose custody I could deliver Tahirih except that young man, who displayed on that occasion a courage and determination that were truly surprising. Sword in hand, undaunted by the savage assault of the inhabitants of the village, who had rushed to plunder our property, he sprang forward to stay the hand of the assailants. Though himself wounded in several parts of his body, he risked his life to protect our property. I bade him desist from his act. When the tumult had subsided, I approached a number of the inhabitants of the village and was able to convince them of the cruelty and shamefulness of their behaviour. I subsequently succeeded in restoring a part of our plundered property. BHU0017

For many have made claims of divinity and lordship - His Holiness Quddus, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, revealed a book on the interpretation of Samad where from beginning to end it is "I am God", and the honorable Tahirih raised "I am God" to the highest heavens in Badasht  AB04355

The Herald, that is the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - during the days of His journey to Maku, outwardly concealed from all, attained the honor of Our presence, and Quddus - upon him be My glory and loving-kindness - attained repeatedly. During the journey to the Land of Kha We specifically summoned him, and for numbered months he attained Our presence. The Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - named both him and the Most Great Gate as the First and the Last, and likewise interpreted them as the First to come and the Last to go, giving each the glad-tidings of this Revelation, and specifically saying to Sayyah - upon him be My glory - "Go forth, that thou mayest find."  BH00009

And furthermore, His Holiness Quddus - exalted be His praise - hath inscribed and dispatched several Tablets whilst in the land of Badasht, which this servant hath never disclosed. Among these, They have given explicit tidings - not by way of allusion - concerning this wondrous Cause, in His words - glorified be His praise: "And when the Lord manifesteth a mystery from the horizon of Baha in His land or in one yet nearer, that resplendent Dawn from the Point of the Bayan shall have been but a herald. And when the heavens of attraction are upraised through the mystery of the mystic verses, that shall be a harbinger of Our Cause for the people of the cloud." Those blessed Tablets do now exist, and all bear witness and testimony to this Cause in the most explicit terms. By the Lord of the Throne and the Cloud! Modesty preventeth the mention of these words, inasmuch as this servant hath never desired to establish for Himself any station through the words of former times, for My station is His station, and He is beheld in the midst of the heaven of independence, and there is none possessed of sight but doth witness and behold, though the blind have no portion therein. Say: By God! My station is His station, My power is His power, My sovereignty is His sovereignty. His manifestation is My proof, and that which hath flowed from His Pen is My testimony, even as My manifestation is His proof and that which hath flowed from My Pen is His testimony. But in consideration for the protection of immature servants, this is being written with restraint. BH00006

