

Remember how His Holiness Jesus said: 'Blessed are the poor!'   ABU3174

This is what Christ says: 'Ye must become as little children.'   ABU2723

I ask God that thou mayest attain such a state of perception, as will enable thee to expound with knowledge the words of the Holy Bible.  AB06845

The Word that was formerly revealed hath at all times appeared with a wondrous spirit from the horizon of the mouth of the Will of the All-Merciful - that Word which I addressed to the Son, meaning the Spirit, saying: "Moses came for religion and ritual, and the son of Zachariah for baptism, but I am come to give everlasting life and to bring them into the eternal Kingdom."  BH00112 

I ask God to open before thy face the doors of wisdom, to give thee a drink of the chalice overflowing with the wine of certainty, and to inspire thee with the mysteries of the Holy Book, so that thou mayest know the significances of vision and the reality of revelation, and all the hidden symbols of prophetic Scripture, such as those of Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel.  AB10245

Thirdly, He says that He speaks not of Himself but is confirmed by the hosts of divine revelation, and declares whatsoever He hears from the Kingdom of Glory. Observe how clear it is that the Comforter is a Person who is inspired by heavenly inspirations and is the source and fountainhead of divine revelation, for the Holy Spirit has no ear to hear.  AB00173

The river of Egypt being changed into blood, signifies that for the Egyptians it was very difficult for them to take in and to live by the Religion of God, just as it would have been impossible for them to drink blood. But for the Jews this religion was as the Water of Life. The thick darkness signifies the darkness of error which surrounded Pharaoh's people. The mosquitoes, frogs, and all signify spiritual hardships and trials. The Plague signifies a spiritual disease; the thunder and hail show the anger of God.  ABU1461

Furthermore, the religion of God is likened to an adorned bride who appears with the utmost grace, as it has been said in chapter twenty-one of the Revelation of John: "And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." And in chapter twelve it is said: "And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars." This woman is that bride, the religion of God, that descended upon Muhammad. The sun with which she was clothed, and the moon which was under her feet, are the two governments which are under the shadow of that religion, the Persian and the Ottoman, for the emblem of Persia is the sun and that of the Ottoman Empire is the crescent moon.   AB00061


We have at present time in our hands four Gospels, two of these were written 60 years after Christ; but today there are ever so many books written on the Cause, proving its authority and greatness.   ABU3075

"Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth, as it is in Heaven"  ABU3207

His Highness Christ says: "Happy is the condition of the children."  AB08281

The flesh is weak, and despondeth, but the spirit rejoiceth greatly.   AB04405

It was of this kind that Christ said, 'Let the dead bury their dead.'  ABU3101

as stated in the glorious Gospel: "Many are called but few are chosen."  AB00918

In the Glorious Gospel it is said: "Freely ye have received, freely give."   AB04865

Yes, Melchisedec, and that Melchisedec was the one who taught Abraham about God  ABU3530

"Ye shall know the tree by its fruits."  AB04430

"Many are called, but few chosen."  AB04430

In the Tablets of the Exalted One mention is made of a David who lived before Moses. Some have supposed this refers to David son of Jesse, when in fact David son of Jesse lived after Moses. Therefore the deceivers and objectors who lie in wait seized upon this as a pretext and - God forbid - spoke from pulpits of ignorance and foolishness. But the truth of the matter is that there were two Davids - one before Moses and one after Moses, just as in the Qur'an there are two Ishmaels - one Ishmael son of Abraham, and another Ishmael who was among the prophets of Israel.  AB04677

That is why His Holiness Christ, sayeth in the Gospels: "Let the dead bury the dead!"  AB09123

It is stated in the Gospel, (Mathew 10:14) "Even shake the dust from off your feet."   AB04210

that which the glorious Lord hath said in the Gospel: "By their fruits ye shall know them."  AB09718

And after Noah the light of the countenance of Hud shone forth above the horizon of creation.  BH00002

When will the Egyptian herald bring to the aged one of Canaan glad tidings of Joseph's garment?  BH07010

"(men) shall come from the east and from the west, etc. but the sons of the Kingdom shall go out"  ABU0784

"Blessed are the children, of whom His Holiness Christ said: 'Of such are the Kingdom of Heaven.'"   ABU3166

see the garden of Abraham, perceive the beauty of Joseph, hear the sighing and lamentation of Jacob   AB04064

All the Bible was written for Baha'u'llah. Everywhere, "Lord of Hosts" refers to the Manifestation.   AB03591

Also in John 16: 7-15 (ino.) "The Advocate" and the "Spirit of Truth" here spoken of signify Mahomet.  ABU2650

It was in this instance that His Holiness Christ says: He that drinketh of this water shall never thirst!   ABU2490

Christ - may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him - hath said in the Gospel: Many are called but few are chosen.  AB12229

in the time of David and Solomon, they reached such a station that the fame of their nobility reached all horizons  AB01333

Solomon... enabled him to build that renowned edifice which was named the Remote Mosque in the kingdom of creation   BH05186

Elijah and Enoch were believed to have come from human source, but ascended bodily into heaven. Jesus said this could not be.  ABU2375

As Christ said, many shall come from the east and west and enter the Kingdom, while the children of the Kingdom shall be cast out.  AB01737

"A rich man said to Christ, 'I would fain be thy disciple.' 'Go and put into practice the ten commandments,' replied the Christ..."  ABU0725

Christ's words when told that 'your brothers have come to see you': 'They are not my brethren but you are my brethren and kindred.'   ABU2602

Said one among them: Slay not Joseph, but cast him into the depths of the pit; some traveller will find him, if ye must do some deed.  BB00002

Christ addressed the disciples saying: "Ye are the salt of the earth but if the salt hath lost its savour wherefore should it be salted?"   AB01975

His Holiness Christ, addressing the believers, uttereth the following in the Gospel: "Be awake lest the Son of Man come and find ye asleep!"  AB05248

It is just as sure that a camel cannot enter the eye of a needle as that a rich man cannot enter the Kingdom, an utterance of Jesus Christ.   ABU1565

We are told in the Bible of the Baptism of Water and of the Spirit, and also of the Baptism of Spirit and of Fire, and these are Three Baptisms.   ABU3508

In the Gospel it is stated that groups will come from all corners of the world and enter the Kingdom while the children of the Kingdom will be cast out  AB00558

'And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, 'Let there be light; and the was light. And God saw the light that it was good'.   ABU2786

This is what Christ states in the Gospels: "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God."  ABU0933

It is in this connection that Christ said: Do not be afraid of those people who have control over your body but have fear of those who may control your spirits.  ABU2126

In the heavenly Books, each day equals one year. Now twelve hours means half a day, that is, six months were added to the victory of Moses's Cause through Joshua.  ABU1683

Then you do not mean this phenomenal heaven? I mean the heaven from which Christ descended and to which he ascended--the heaven of divine Will, the heaven of spirituality.   ABU3594

with a pure and penetrating vision examine the New Testament and then the Old Testament - thou wilt find the whole speaking of the glad tidings of this Most Great Revelation.  AB11002

It is therefore clear that the assertion that the Son of man came down from heaven has a mystical rather than a literal meaning, and is a spiritual rather than a material event.  AB00575

"It is mentioned in the Gospel that a man called His Holiness, Christ, 'Good Master.' His Holiness said unto him, 'Why callest thou Me good? None is good save One, that is God.'"   AB01161

The glorious Lord Christ - glory be to Him - said in the Gospel that it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the Kingdom of God.   AB05888

The Spirit [Jesus] hath said: "...If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all and servant of all. ...and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant."  AB11928

Canaan did not appreciate, therefore the divine address came to His Holiness Noah: "He is not of thy family," for misconduct and violation of the Covenant removed nobility of lineage. AB03911

This blessed verse has ever been inscribed at the head of the book of deeds by the Most Exalted Pen: "Do men think that they will be left alone on saying, 'We believe,' and will not be tested?"  BH10020

Jesus Christ, quoting the words of Isaiah, has said, 'They have eyes, but do not see; they have ears, but do not hear; they have hearts, but do not understand -- yet I will grant them healing.'  ABU3746

Marvel not at the command of God, for the Kingdom of God, according to the explicit text of Christ - glory be unto Him - belongeth to children who have been nursed at the breast of the bounty of God.  AB09005

And they brought his shirt with false blood upon it. He said: Nay, but your souls have made a matter light for you, so comely patience! And Allah is He Whose help is sought against what you describe.  BB00002

"This is what Christ meant when He said, 'Many are called but few are chosen'. Similarly, He said, 'The people are entering the Kingdom from all directions but the sons of the Kingdom are leaving it.'"  ABU0945

From its contents the truth of Christ's statement was realized where He says they shall come from all corners of the world and enter into the Kingdom while the children of the Kingdom shall be cast out   AB03610

There are two Davids - one before Moses and one after Moses. Their way and disposition and taste were similar, therefore the Exalted One [the Bab] mentioned David before Moses, meaning the first David.   AB04330

"But my mother reads the Psalms all the time; she doesn't deserve that God should desert her so. I read the Psalms myself--the ninety-first Psalm and the twenty-third Psalm every night before I go to bed."  ABU3253

The allusions followed the pattern of the words of Habib the Carpenter, who was one of the trustees of Christ, who said "Why should I not worship Him Who hath created me, and unto Whom ye shall be brought back?"  AB04316

"Thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my church." His Holiness Christ, addressing His disciples said: "Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt hath lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted?"   ABU0670

Thus it is said in the Gospel that Satan took Christ to the top of a high mountain, showed Him the world outspread and told Him that he would give Him all these things if he would follow him. But Christ refused.   ABU2709

Then after him We sent forth the Friend (Abraham) and gave him ten scrolls from Our presence and sent him to Nimrod and his chiefs to remind them of the days of God and guide them to this clear and luminous path.  BH00705

Thus said the Lord of Host, the Lord who delivered you out of the tyranny of Pharaohs, brought you out of Egypt and gave you the land flowing with milk and honey; the God of your fathers Abraham, Jacob, Isaac and Joseph.   ABU1277

Matthew, chapter 24 verse 15 to 16: Abomination of desolation is Titus and when he came Judea's Christians fled into the mountains of Leganan and to owe that remained were killed and in that time Mt. Lebanon was give its glory.   ABU0747

And yet even more astonishing is that Christ said: Perchance I shall come when you are sleeping, for the coming of the Son of man is like the coming of a thief. Perhaps the thief will be in the house and the owner will be unaware.  AB00570

One day I spoke with a well-known Rabbi who knew me formerly, and told him the contents of my addresses in the American Synagogues. At the end of nearly two hours talk, I looked into his face, and there was not one glimmer of interest.  ABU0580

Read, my daughter, the Holy Books of mankind; as a Christian study particularly the New Testament; show me, where does the great Master Jesus speak of the "Wrath of God"? But rather of the all-consuming love of the Father for His lost son! ABU3429

It is recorded in the Old Testament that the Lord is the Excellency of Carmel and Carmel means the vineyard of God. Practically all the Prophets of Israel have visited this mountain. Even His Holiness Jesus Christ has been here several times  ABU2076

"Haven't you read in the Gospel that Christ sent two of His disciples to a nearby village and instructed them, 'There you will find a young donkey tied up - bring it.' They went and brought the donkey, and Christ rode it with His disciples into Jerusalem."   ABU1300

'But I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven. But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' Matthew 8:11-12  ABU3681

O, Ye, the Sons of the Kingdom, the Holy Spirit hath uttered no one like you in the glorious Gospel, that a generous Prince hath spread a bountiful feast adorned with various gifts and bounties, and with all that one desires, that the hearts of the people of righteousness rejoice.  AB01032

'Out of Egypt have I called My Son' (Matt. 2:15 Hos. 11: was spoken of Jesus. The 5th Gospel which is considered noncanonical gave other history of Jesus than is contained in the Gospels of the New Testament. There were fifty gospels, but only four were accepted as genuine by the priesthood.   ABU3181

Isaiah is a true Prophet but the Book of Esther is a mere tradition or story. In Solomon's Song, the symbolism which is used throughout it of a bride and bridegroom is true symbolism or allegory - no real bride or bridegroom is intended. David was a great saint but not a great Prophet and many of the statements made about him are not accurate.   ABU1695

We will preface our remarks with the text of the Gospel. It is recorded therein that when John the son of Zacharias appeared and announced unto the people the advent of the Kingdom of God, they asked him, "Who art thou? Art thou the promised Messiah?" He replied, "I am not the Messiah." They then asked him, "Art thou Elias?" He replied, "I am not."  AB00419

In the Gospel it is recorded that an adulteress was brought before Christ and confessed. Those present asked why He did not command her to be stoned. He said that whoever was without sin - that is, had committed no wrong - should arise and stone her. When all examined themselves, they found themselves sinful, and so each fled in a different direction.   AB00994

I ask God to open before thy face the doors of wisdom, to give thee a drink of the chalice overflowing with the wine of certainty, and to inspire thee with the mysteries of the Holy Book, so that thou mayest know the significances of vision and the reality of revelation, and all the hidden symbols of prophetic Scripture, such as those of Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel. AB10245

As for the fish and the whale, what is meant is those people who swallowed him, and in the darkness of their ignorance, animality and selfish desires, he remembered God, and finally God saved him - meaning he guided the people. And in the Torah the story of Dhun-Nun is by the name of Jonah, and the Europeans completely denied this story, saying it was one of the false tales. ABU1681

'And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brothers eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? O, how wilt thou say to the brother, let me pull the mote out of thine eye and behold, a beam is in thine own eye! Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam that is in thine own eye and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote that is in thy brothers eye.'   ABU2326

Verily, the obstinate Nimrod with the power of his armies could not resist the Affectionate Friend (Abraham). The fierce Pharaoh with the power of steel could not repel the Glorious Moses. The obstinate Jews were capable were not capable of extinguishing the Praised Light, the promised Christ. And the communities in Mecca and Medina could not quench that Fire enkindled on Mount Paran.  ABU2079

This is among the divine traditions in the primary manifestations, as Joseph (peace be upon him) saw in his dream that eleven stars prostrated to him, he being the twelfth. This occurred in the cycle of Abraham, while in the cycle of Moses (peace be upon him) there were twelve tribes and twelve chiefs, who were the constellations of mystical reality and the letters of the word of unity in that time.  AB02020

"It is mentioned in the glorious Gospel that one day a group of Jews came to the holy presence of His Holiness the Spirit of God (Christ) and had a coin in their hand. They asked to whom they should submit this coin, meaning to whom should they pay tribute and tax. He asked what was engraved on the coin. They said the name of Caesar. He said render unto God what is God's and unto Caesar what is Caesar's."  AB06205

Consider this blessed, firm, and established word which is recorded in the Book of Zechariah. He saith: "And in that day there shall be no more the Canaanite in the house of the Lord of hosts." This word implicitly giveth tidings that the Sun of Truth will rise from the horizon of another heaven, and likewise indicateth that whosoever turneth unto the Most Great Name hath been and shall be among the most exalted peoples of the world.  BH00243

In the Book of Isaiah - may my spirit be a sacrifice for all besides Him - there is a passage that hath previously testified to that which hath been expounded by the Most Exalted Pen concerning the meaning of the words of the revered Shaykh - upon him be all the most glorious Glory of God. He saith: "For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind." (Chapter 65, verse 17).  BH01252

Moreover, in the Gospel of John, chapter one, verse thirteen, it is written: But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. From this verse of John it becomes clear that even the existence of the apostles was not generated from physical power but from spiritual reality.  AB01218

And he called the people unto God, the Most High, and drew them nigh unto the Shore whereat melted the hearts of those who dwelt in the pavilions of eternity in the blessed spot, entering therein by God's leave. When Moses cast off the sandals of allusion and detached himself unto God, then did God call unto him from the holy Tree amidst the flames of fire: "O Moses! Verily, I am God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob."   BH01342

Immediately after the oppression of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the earth shall be shaken: and then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet.  BH00002

For Moses it was the Valley of the Right Hand, and for Abraham it was a secure refuge, shelter and sanctuary. For Lot it was a mighty stronghold, and for Jacob an illustrious homeland. For David it was a prayer niche, and for Solomon the throne of "My Lord! Grant me a kingdom such as shall not belong to any after me." For Zechariah it was a mosque of devotion and servitude, and for John a valley of the Kingdom and a wilderness of glad-tidings. For the Spirit of God (Jesus) it was a place of manifestations  AB01405

The designation of "son of God" at the time of Moses and Christ was a term which was used also in relation to the Children of Israel, as in the Torah they have been called "sons of God". In Exodus at the end of chapter four, God said unto Moses to inform Pharaoh that "the children of Israel are my first-born sons. If thou wilt not free them, I will slay thy first-born son." Therefore, if according to the explicit text of the Torah the Children of Israel are sons of God, then what special station or glory is there in Christ being the son of God? ABU2540

O God! When the Almighty desired to manifest in all created things a gleaming from the gleamings of His beauty, and to place within each one of them a trace from among the traces of His majesty, that perchance through witnessing it the hearts of the mystics might be quickened and the inner beings of those drawn nigh might rejoice, He sent down the water of divine manifestation and the effulgent light of divine unity upon the manifestations of creation from the heaven of His Will - which is the horizon of His Purpose - so that nothing might exist save that it would guide the servants to the Dawning-Place of creation and His bountiful Countenance.  AB00012

In the Torah it is said in Isaiah 48:12: "Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I am he; I am the first, I also am the last." Also in Isaiah 43:1 it is said: "But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine." Furthermore, in Numbers 20:23-24 it is said: "And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying, Aaron shall be gathered unto his people: for he shall not enter into the land which I have given unto the children of Israel, because ye rebelled against my word at the water of Meribah."  AB00168

Regarding what is mentioned in the Torah and the Psalms concerning the affair of Lot and his daughters, and the apostasy of certain Prophets - these are confused dreams for which God has sent down no authority. These are merely tales of historians from among the People of the Book. Know then that the Torah consists of that which was revealed on the Tablets to Moses - peace be upon Him - or what He commanded. As for the stories, these are historical accounts written after Moses - peace be upon Him. The proof of this is that in the final book, events that occurred after Moses are recorded and related. This is clear and evident proof that these stories were recorded after Moses - peace be upon Him. Therefore, there can be no reliance upon such sayings which are mere stories and accounts, for which God has sent down no authority.   AB00078

There are two meanings to this narrative [of Cain and Abel] - the material and the spiritual. As to the former the occurrence is correctly stated and really happened.  In the spiritual significance, we find that Abel represents the Divine Law or Religion, and Cain the human nature. The Divine Law is present in man and attains a certain development when the human nature overcomes it. A man may take a forest and by skillful attention turn it into a garden. But if it be neglected for a time, it reverts into its former condition. So there is always present the tendency to nullify the action of the Divine Law or Religion. The religion of Moses attained its highest development and before the time of Christ it had been acted upon by human forces. So, Christianity reached its zenith and outside forces entered until the Divine Law became to an extent superseded. A man may with the utmost care attend to a garden for a hundred years, but if it be neglected for a single year it will become a wilderness. ABU2089

The station of sacrifice is the great foundation. When you read the Old and New Testament, you will find that constantly the word "sacrifice" is mentioned. It is recorded that the Israelites sacrificed sheep so that their sins may be forgiven. In the time of Adam, Cain made sacrifice of sheaves of wheat and Abel made sacrifice of sheep. Now this is a symbol, and this word extended after the time of Christ.  What is the symbol? Just as the sheep sacrificed its life, likewise this natural state of man, which is the animalistic state, must be sacrificed. How should it be sacrificed? The vices of the animalistic state of man must be entirely annihilated, and he must be characterized with divine virtues. It was a symbol and before His Holiness Christ appeared, all the Israelitish prophets made sacrifice of animals. This was a mystery of that higher sacrifice and when Christ came he said, I will sacrifice myself for the sake of the salvation of all. What did He mean? He meant to change their characters, and in this way make them heavenly, in this way make them God-like, spiritual and divine. ABU1014

"In the Old Testament several of the Prophets are mentioned as having lived long periods, as Methusaleh, 969 years. Does not this refer to their cycles as Manifestations?" "Yes, it means that the dominion of their laws and ordinances covered such periods."  ABU3045

Psalm 102 Revelation 22, verse: The river of water is the truth, new, pure and clear teachings and not ignorantly interpreted as is done by Christianity, and also to come forth by the Manifestation and Abdul- Baha. Baha'o'llah said that the world "throne" is the body of Baha'o'llah. Two thrones are mentioned, one of Baha'o'llah and the other the Lamb. The Lamb refers to Abdul-Baha, and here is used to clear up the matter any further. Verse 2: The street means the knowledge of God. The Tree of life means the Branches or teachers who give the Message to the people. Twelve manner of fruits means twelve different nations who will hereafter accept the Truth, yielding fruit every month means to be a great increase and never change their religion from cycle to cycle. The beginning will be fulfilled in the ladder days of Abdul-Baha. The leaves of the Tree are the teachers who go forth to heal the spiritual sickness. Verse 3: It is said that "Satan shall be imprisoned" and means that error had been in power but now this shall cease and there will be no more curse and all nations shall live in peace. Death vanish means ignorance shall be no more. The two thrones shall be in the midst of the believers. Revelation chapter 21, verse 22: Lord God and the Lamb are the Temple, one Temple, the Holy Spirit in two bodies yet as one perfect Manifestation. The title of "Lamb" was given to Christ by John, the Baptist, because He was sacrificed and also when John, the Disciple was writing to his people he feared to write Christ, so he wrote in ciphor, the Lamb, and only the believers knew who this referred to. Verse 25: god and the Lamb are both the Light thereof. Verse 27: The Lamb's Book of life is only one book that of the Lamb (Abdul-Baha). Chapter 12, verse 10: Christ and Baha'o'llah are mentioned as being One in degree of power. Zachariah Chapter 3, verse 8: Joshua was the high priest at the time. Zachariah Chapter 3 verse 1: Joshua was the high priest at the time of Zachariah, God in sending the Branch, would be the servant of Abdul-Baha. Verse 9- The stone is Abdul-Baha laid before Joshua who is Baha'o'llah. Joshua is Baha'u'llah because the branch is laid before Him. One stone there shall be having seven eyes (psalm 118 verse 22) which means seven lights or seven great divines or teachers who are illumined by the light of God to enlighten the people. Mohammed told that twelve Imams would come after Him, but one of those will be only seven important ones, their names as mentioned by the Bab are Mohammed, Ali, Hassan, Huseyn, Fatima, Jafar and Musa. When the Bab appeared He called Himself "the seven lights" for He was equal to the seven Imams, and the Bab said that the Lord will come but no more prophets, and the seven eyes upon stone means that Abdul-Baha is endowed with the power of the seven guides or Imams.  Verse 2: The engraving of the inscription means that Baha'o'llah will prepare the way for Abdul-Baha and in the time of Abdul-Baha the country of Syria will have the Truth prevail. Verse 10: in that Day of our Lord all will call each other as neighbors. The fig tree is the Master, the shelter, the servant of the Lord. Zavhariah Chapter 6 verse 12: The Branch shall build the Temple of the Lord. The Temple means the religion in twelve nations and the country of holy places and the Holy Tombe. To disobey Abdul-Baha is to disobey Baha'o'llah. Their Station is equal in degree and their authority in those days with the people. One must be humble and cast aside pride. Does humility decrease one's station? In Malachi it says, "In the Day of God the proud shall be humbled." Malachi Chapter 4--The sincere believers who humble themselves shall in this day prosper. Abdul- Fazl has known the Truth twenty-five years. He was in prison five times. Many Tabletts were revealed but he never considered himself as anything. Christ said " Blessed are the poor of spirit (humble) for theirs is the Kingdom. " Those who wish to be of the Kingdom must be humble. Blessed are the sad for they will be comforted. Blessed are the peace-makers for they shall be called blessed.  ABU0252


Prause all and be mindful of the story of Christ. When everyone expressed disgust on seeing the body of a dead dog, Christ said, 'What white teeth it has!'   ABU2426

The loaves are five Words with which Christ answered and satisfied the questioning multitude. The fish represents the spiritual meaning of these Words. The basketful that remained is the superabundant teaching gathered from the Words.   ABU0898

The Lord Christ, two thousand years ago, spoke of the importance of finding the lost sheep, so that you have even to leave ninety-nine sheep, in order to go and find the lost lamb, and the joy is greater in finding the little lost lamb than over the ninety-nine sheep.   ABU3179

Thus when Christ said: "Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the left one also," the purpose was to educate the people, not to imply that one should assist a wolf that has fallen upon a flock of sheep and is intent upon devouring them all. No, if Christ had known that a wolf had entered the fold and was about to destroy the sheep, He most certainly would have prevented it.   AB00090

Christ says in the Gospel that His words are like seeds that the farmer scatters - some falling upon rock, some upon salty ground, some among weeds, and some upon blessed and goodly soil. The seed that falls on salty ground becomes corrupted and will not grow at all; that which falls upon rock sprouts briefly but, having no root, withers; that which falls among weeds is choked and does not grow; but that which falls on pure earth sprouts, becomes green, develops ears, and produces a harvest.  ABU0095

In all ages have the embodiments of evil risen in such objection, even as it is recorded in the Gospel that some came to Jesus, son of Mary, and protested, saying: O Spirit of God! The disciples of previous Prophets were all holy and adorned with the utmost piety and devotion, fasting by day and remembering God by night, yet we observe thy companions acting contrary to all this. The Spirit smiled and pondered within Himself for a moment, then raised His head and said what amounted to this: O servants! These are days of joy for these people, for I am manifest and visible among them, and the presence of the Manifestation of the All-Glorious sufficeth in place of all deeds. After Me will come a time when all shall perform deeds.  BH04610

The purpose is not the numerical value - twelve hours is a lot, meaning six months were added to the illumination. In the heavenly Books, each day equals one year. Now twelve hours means half a day, that is, six months were added to the victory of Moses's Cause through Joshua. Regarding Abraham, Islam mentions that the sun stood still - this is what is meant. For example, the splitting of the moon - if one who saw it had believed because of it... These things have meanings, but Islam absolutely will not accept this interpretation. Now these people are the same way. Consider - if the kings who were fighting had seen this, they would not have continued fighting. Think about it - if today a general were to stand and say "Sun, stand still!" and the sun stood still, would the opposing side dare to continue fighting? All these things have meanings, but it is not that they are beyond divine power. In God's sight, forced belief is not acceptable. Consider - is a forced friendship acceptable to you? If you tell someone "If you don't believe, I will kill you" and they believe, this is not faith. Faith must be through recognition, through insight, through guidance, through the diffusion of divine fragrances, through the dawning of lights. If it is other than this, it will be like the conversion of the Jews of Hamadan and Mashhad.  ABU1683

The second question concerns the blessed verse of the Qur'an which states, exalted be His station and His sovereignty: "And remember when Jesus, son of Mary, said: 'O Children of Israel! Lo! I am the messenger of Allah unto you, confirming that which was (revealed) before me in the Torah, and bringing good tidings of a messenger who cometh after me, whose name is Ahmad.' Yet when he came unto them with clear proofs, they said: 'This is mere magic.'" Their question concerns the fact that this passage was not and is not in the Gospel, yet the Messenger of God, peace be upon Him, mentioned it in the Qur'an. Yes, this is true and we acknowledge it, but He did not say it was revealed in the Gospel. We testify that He said Jesus son of Mary spoke what the All-Merciful revealed in the Qur'an. Assuredly, whatsoever He spoke and was revealed in the Qur'an from the All-Merciful was and ever shall be the pure truth, for none but God knoweth the hidden knowledge and comprehendeth what hath occurred and shall occur in creation. God, exalted be His station, reveals and teaches to His chosen ones and His Prophets whatsoever He willeth. He is verily the All-Wise Teacher. This blessed revealed verse is among those matters that God, exalted be His station, informed His Messenger about. That it is not in the Gospel does not prove that Christ did not speak the content of the mentioned verse, for the four Gospels were written after Him. John, Luke, Mark and Matthew - these four wrote after Christ such utterances of His as they remembered, so that His followers might occupy themselves with reading and reflecting upon them. Many of His utterances had been erased from their memory, and many statements He made none of these souls had heard. None knows what Christ spoke save He Who sent Him, taught Him and strengthened Him. None but God, exalted be His knowledge, has ever had or shall have knowledge of all the affairs of the world. He is the All-Knowing, the All-Encompassing, the Omniscient, the Almighty.  BH00091

In the first chapter of the Book of Isaiah it is recorded: "To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the Lord: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats. When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts? Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, and your festivals are mere corruption. Your new moons and your feasts my soul hateth; they are a burden unto me; I am weary to bear them." Should any soul contemplate these aforementioned passages and inscribed verses that have been recorded from the Book of Isaiah, lifting his gaze from secondary causes to fix it upon the Prime Mover, and thereafter regard whatsoever may be manifested by Him as the true causes, cleaving fast thereunto—it would be well for those souls who have received the glad-tidings of the sages of bygone ages and the drinkers from the Kawthar of divine knowledge concerning the inhabitants dwelling in Jerusalem, to observe these passages, that they may know with certitude that God doeth whatsoever He willeth. One day He commandeth by the sacrifice of a decree, and another day He may lift that very ordinance. He shall not be asked of what He doeth, and He is the All-Knowing Questioner.  BH00091

Some among mankind are ever intent upon denial and objection, as evidenced by how the people of the Bayan have repeatedly inquired why the Point (the Bab), may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake, made mention of David, the Psalmist, before Moses, peace be upon Him, when historically David came after Moses. This seems to them contrary to the Holy Books and the traditions of the Messengers. Say: Fear God and object not to Him Whom God hath adorned with the Most Great Infallibility, His most beautiful names and His most exalted attributes. It behooveth the servants to affirm whatsoever proceedeth from the Dayspring of God's Cause, for none save God is aware of the requirements of His consummate wisdom. He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth, and He is the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  BH00018

This is that Day of which Joel in his Book saith: "For the day of the Lord is great and very terrible; and who can abide it?" Likewise Jeremiah saith: "Alas! for that day is great, so that none is like it." All that hath appeared was mentioned in the Books of the Messengers, even unto the mention of the Fortress which is now the seat of the Throne and is known as the Most Great Prison, as David saith: "Who will lead me into the strong city?" The strong city is Akka, whose fortress is well-known. This is that Fortress upon which He saith the lights of the Sun of Truth would shine and from whose horizon they would dawn. They also gave each other and the people of this earth glad tidings that God would appear in these lands in the latter days and would manifest Himself. Isaiah saith: "Get thee up into the high mountain, O Zion, that bringest good tidings; lift up thy voice with strength, O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God! Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him." Zion and Jerusalem are in these lands, and He saith it shall be called by a new name, as in the land of Mystery it was named the Valley of the Noble One. This is that valley wherein the cry of all the Prophets was raised, speaking "Here am I, O my Lord, here am I." Abraham, Moses, Jesus and the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all existence be sacrificed for them - appeared in these lands, for these lands are connected to the land of Batha and Hijaz. Thus He saith: "Blessed is he who hath migrated to Akka." I swear by the Sun of the horizon of utterance that this evanescent one's purpose hath not been and is not to display knowledge, learning and awareness, but rather it is offered for the sake of God that heedless souls may not become the cause of people's veiling as they have done before. These indeed are the holy lands mentioned in the Qur'an and previous Books. The Lord shall roar from Zion and utter His voice from Jerusalem, and the shepherds' pastures shall mourn, and the top of Carmel shall wither. And this Carmel lieth opposite to 'Akka and in former Books was known as God's Vineyard, and mention thereof hath flowed from the Most Exalted Pen. Verily some have attained unto it, and it is among those assured matters whereon the Tabernacle of Glory must needs be raised - and praise be to God, it hath been raised - and from Zion the Euphrates of inner meanings hath flowed, despite those who cast justice aside and took up oppression. The greatness of this Revelation is such that David, in speaking of it, declares: "Exalt ye the Lord our God, and worship at His footstool, for He is holy. Moses and Aaron among His priests, and Samuel among them that call upon His name."  BH00008

He is the Almighty One of Whom the prophet Amos spoke, saying: "Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. For, lo, He that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord, The God of hosts, is His name." By the life of our Beloved and your Beloved, our Goal and your Goal! In this mighty verse are hidden mighty mysteries, for it gives tidings of the year eighty and likewise of the false dawn which He, the God of hosts, will darken, and of His treading upon the high places of the earth - an allusion to the journey to the great City and these parts.   BH00008
