"When truth comes, falsehood vanishes"  AB04316

"And we uplifted Him to a place on high."  ABU1213

Shaykh Farjullah Zaki al-Kurdi inquired whether the Quran was created or eternal, an issue about which the Ashairih [anti-rationalism] and the Mutazilih [pro-rationalism] fought during the time of the Abbasi caliphs.  'Abdu'l-Baha responded:  "The solution to this issue is simple. Kalam appears in three types. One is oral, which is composed of airwaves, impacts the orifice of the ear and is made and assembled of letters. The other is intellectual: that is, things that a person will comprehend after one has contemplated over them. And lastly, spiritual. The first two are created, but the third one is ancient, since it pertains to divine knowledge, and has its beginning in the knowledge of God, which is eternal." ABU3658

Question: Please explain the meaning of this verse from the Koran: "Verily those who disbelieve our signs we will cause to be boiled in hell fire so often as their skins shall be well burned we will give them other skins in exchange that they may take the sharper?"  ABU3510

"verily it was incumbent upon Us to help the believers."   ABU2444

"And when they pass by vain talk, they pass by with dignity."  AB05277

In the Qur'an it states "Do not forget the grace between you."   AB02778

It is revealed in the Qur'an: "Men have superiority over women."   AB05189

Explanation of the inner meaning of the Quranic verse about sacrifice   AB04777

Rather, the interpretation of the hadith "Egypt was my home" is necessary  AB10195

in the Qur'an it states "And the poets - [only] the deviators follow them."  AB05836

God declares in the Quran: O David! We have made thee a vicegerent on earth.  AB09765

In the Qur'an, the Book of God, He says: "If ye help God, He will help you."   AB02928

This is one meaning of the blessed verse "Verily he was unjust and ignorant."   AB05610

"Honored servants who speak not until He hath spoken, and who do His bidding."   BB00519

In the Qur'an the All-Merciful Lord declares: "If ye help God, He will help you."  AB05090

this Youth Who is riding high upon the snow-white She-Camel betwixt earth and heaven   BH07147

God says in the Glorious Qur'an: "He singles out for His mercy whomsoever He willeth."   AB04865

The decree in the Qur'an has been fulfilled: "Every sect rejoices in what it possesses."   BH06607

In the Qur'an it is stated: "As often as they kindle a fire for war, God extinguisheth it."  AB09933

This is why the Qur'an states "You cannot guide whom you love, but God guides whom He wills."  ABU2441

The verses of guidance have been chanted and the meanings of revelation have been interpreted.  AB05664

In the Qur'an He says: "Verily, the patient ones shall be paid their recompense without measure."   AB06773

In the glorious Qur'an it is stated: The handiwork of God - and who is better than God in handiwork?  AB09263

A holy city, and a Lord Ever-Forgiving is the glorious utterance and the explicit text of the Qur'an.  AB10934

You had asked about the interpretation of the verse "I will show you the abode of the transgressors."  AB10195

In the mighty Qur'an, the Book of God, He says "If ye are thankful, I will add more (favors) unto you."   AB06763

Just as it is said in the Qur'an, 'Ye shall never receive blessings until ye give of that which ye love.'  ABU2240

As mentioned in the Quran: "What is wrong with these people that they fail to understand any discourse?"   AB03675

in the Qur'an it states: "Had you been harsh and hard-hearted, they would have scattered from around you."   AB04019

"As for the foam, it vanishes as jetsam, and as for that which benefits mankind, it remains on the earth."   AB01524

This is why He addresses Noah saying "he is not of thy family, his work is unrighteous" referring to Canaan.  AB02726

"In the divine hadith He says: 'Whoever is not content with My decree, let him seek another Lord besides Me.'"  AB04365

It is of this Light Muhammad is speaking when he says, 'Allah is the light of the Heavens, and of the Earth'.   ABU0755

"They desire to extinguish God's light with their mouths, but God refuses to do aught save perfect His light."  AB06869

When he was asked what the term 'Iram of the Pillars' mentioned in the Qur'án [89:6-14] referred to, he replied  ABU1839

Verily We have shown you in the Furqan the paths of the Gate; therefore seek ye a way unto the Lord of the Throne.  BB00002

'What art thou doing? Hast thou not heard the saying of Mohamad that when El Koran is read every one must listen?'  ABU1255

"Had I known the unseen, I would have had abundance of good, and I know not what shall befall me and you tomorrow."  AB04526

"Verily with difficulty comes ease." In the Qur'an He says: "Despair not of God's mercy, for God forgives all sins."  AB04810

It seems they have not read the blessed Qur'anic verse which states: "Verily, over My servants thou hast no power."   AB04874

"Think not of those who are slain in God's way as dead. Nay, they are living! With their Lord they have provision."   AB07591

It is also stated in the Qur'an: Thou wast heedless of that; but We have removed thy veil, and keen is thy sight this day.  AB09864

Where is My she-camel - is she grazing, or have the enemies of God who denied the Beginning and the Return slaughtered her?  BH07900

"It is said in the Koran, 'Hadst thou been severe and hard-hearted, they had surely separated themselves from about Thee.'"   AB01161

The interpretation of this is that the bird symbolizes an earthly man, who received spiritual education through the Christ.   ABU2869

Say: O concourse of divines! Beware lest ye muddy the pure water of this spring with what ye possess of conjecture and fancy.   BH01658

"Think not of those who are slain in God's way as dead. Nay, they live, finding their sustenance in the presence of their Lord."  AB02109

We send down of the Qur'an that which is a healing and mercy to the believers, but it increases not the wrongdoers except in loss   AB05822

By My life, these are the good deeds that endure mentioned in the Qur'an: "The good deeds which endure are better and more lasting."  AB04434

Recite what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: "Every soul shall taste of death. We are God's and to Him shall we return."   BH05197

Say: Had I that which ye are in such haste to see, the matter would be decided between me and you. But God best knoweth the wrong-doers.  BB00065

"Say: Call upon Allah, or call upon Rahman: by whatever name ye call upon Him, (it is well): for to Him belong the Most Beautiful Names"   AB07362

and utters "Think not of those who are slain in God's way as dead. Nay, they live, finding their sustenance in the presence of their Lord."   AB02885

"Like a seed which sends forth its blade, then makes it strong; it then becomes thick, and it stands on its own stem, delighting the sowers."   AB01243

This is the Day which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: The Kingdom on that Day shall be God's, yet most of the people perceive not.  BH11653

The text provides an interpretation of Qur'anic verses 83:52 and 17:73-74, explaining their deeper meaning as proofs of Muhammad's authenticity.  ABU2164

God says in the great Koran: "The Building of the Mosques of God is carried along by those souls who believe in God and in the day of judgment."  AB05174

I have turned my face toward Him Who created the heavens and earth, turning away from all else, and I am not of those who join partners with God   AB05808

nor of those concerning whom the Desired One of all possibility hath said in the Qur'an: "How many a sign do they pass by and turn away therefrom!"   BH05531

"If I knew the unseen, I would have secured more good and I know not what will be done with me or with you tomorrow." This is the text of the Qur'an   AB04031

Glory be to God! In the Qur'an He says: "And indeed We seized them with the lesser punishment before the greater punishment, that they might return."   AB01845

for it is the Ark concerning which it is stated in the Qur'an: "A sign of his kingdom is that there shall come to you the Ark wherein is tranquility."  AB06841

The text quotes and discusses the Quranic verse "Alif, Lam, Mim. The Romans have been defeated...but after their defeat they will soon be victorious"   ABU1550

"Therefore Moses cried out, O Lord! let me behold Thy Face" and the Lord answered:- "Look and thou shalt see me." [Goes on to provide interpretation]   ABU1449

This is why it says in the Qur'an: Make not thy hand tied to thy neck, nor stretch it forth to its utmost reach, but seek between these a middle course.  AB10882

I would like to ask the meaning of the capital letters at the commencement of the suras of the Kur'an. These letters are symbols predicting future events.   ABU2121

When you reach this station, what Ali said to Kumayl ibn Ziyad when asked about Reality becomes manifest to you: "That which overflows from me trickles upon you."  BB00219

The traditions (hadith) which are passed down in Islam have been the cause of ruin for many homes, sources of disunity and division, and of suffering and calamities.  BHU0057

His blessed and exalted Word states: "And if there be the weight of a mustard seed and it be in a rock, or in the heavens, or in the earth, God will bring it forth."  BH08570

"We did indeed offer this Trust to the heavens, to the earth and to the mountains but they did refuse it being afraid thereof. But Man hath undertaken it." [Q 33:72]   AB05639

Our Lord said that all miracles have their mystic and hidden meaning enfolded within them, and that this miracle of the walking on the water is of the very first importance.   ABU0484

Praise be to God Who created creation for His knowledge, as stated in His words: "I was a hidden treasure and loved to be known, so I created creation that I might be known."   BH01040

God, the all-glorious Lord, saith in the wondrous Qur'an: And We wished to be Gracious to those who were being depressed in the land, to make them leaders and make them heirs.  AB09824

Thus was revealed a verse in the Qur'an directing the faithful to be generous towards the poor, the captive and the homeless and to give preference to these people over themselves.   ABU2038

They were very well understood by their contemporaries and hearers, but as time changed terminologies changed and commentaries arose which darkened the light of the truths they taught.  ABU3078

How impressive are the commentaries which the Muslims of former times wrote concerning these verses: The Romans have been defeated... but after their defeat, they shall defeat their foes.  ABU3739

"Why do I see and hear thy birds and their song, but see not My she-camel nor hear her cry? Is she in the garden above the earth or beneath it?"   BH01885

Even as God hath revealed, aforetimes, in this verse of the Qur'an: We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves, until it becometh manifest unto them that He is the Truth.  BB00001

One time he came to Me and said, 'Given His large body and girth, with what kind of ladder did Muhammad ascend to heaven?' I responded, 'With the same ladder that Christ used [to reach the heaven].'   ABU2601

In the Koran are many things referring to Christ not mentioned in the Gospel. It is said that Christ took a bit of clay and shaped it into the form of a bird. Then he blew upon it, and it flew away.   ABU2869

In the Qur'an He says: "Do you suppose that you will enter Paradise while yet there has not come to you the like of what came to those who passed away before you? Affliction and adversity befell them."  AB03774

Another interpretation was given by Me in some other Tablets. Also those people who are well versed in science and learning have given other interpretations all of which coincide with truth and reality.   AB01034

And we ransomed him as a momentous sacrifice [Q37: 107] It is revealed in the Qur'an [2:214] Do ye think that ye shall enter the Garden of bliss without such trials as came to those who passed away before you?   AB04400

"Have you not read in the Koran 'you must not turn away a questioner'?" The Mullah in turn rejoined:- "hast thou not read also in the same holy book the injunction, 'Give thou not thy possessions to the fool'?"  ABU3002

And We revealed in the Qur'an in the Surih of the Spider: "Is it not enough for them that We have sent down unto thee the Book which is recited to them? Verily in this is a mercy and a reminder to people who believe."   BB00135

And has not the Prophet said also in the Qur'an (2.19: 'Do not cast yourself into destruction', and elsewhere: 'Help comes from God, the Most High, to him who asks Him for it - but first he should try to help himself'.  ABU0414

Read what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an. Mighty is His utterance and exalted His proof: "Until, when they rejoiced in that which they were given, We seized them unawares, and lo, thy Lord is ever watchful."  BH01338

It is revealed in the Qur'an, "They think that every shout is against them." Every noise is raised, they think it is the enemy. Like a thief who thinks every sound forebodes his arrest, they are disturbed and distraught.   ABU2572

And the trumpet shall be blown, and whoever is in the heavens and whoever is on earth shall swoon...Then it shall be blown again, and lo! they shall stand up, waiting, and the earth shall shine with the light of its Lord.  ABU0366

In the mighty Qur'an, addressing the Beloved One, He saith: "And watch in vigil some part of the night as a work of supererogation for thee; it may be that thy Lord will raise thee to a Station of Praise (Maqam-i-Mahmud)."  AB10378

That which thou hast comprehended and expressed regarding the Hidden Word doth not accord and agreeth not with its true meaning. The essential matter is that which was sent down aforetime from the heaven of the Divine Will.   BH04321

Read what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an: "Wealth and children are an adornment of the life of this world: But the good deeds which endure are better in thy Lord's sight for reward, and better in respect of hope."  BH03309

None knoweth their interpretation save God and whom We will of His sincere servants. Ask ye the Remembrance concerning its interpretation, for He is, by God's grace, knowledgeable about His verses according to the Book's decree.  BB00002

Similarly, in the glorious Quran He states: Verily, the number of months with God is twelve months, and likewise the lunar months of the Arabic year are twelve, and similarly the solar months of all nations and states are twelve.  AB02020

The hadith quoted: "All people shall perish except the believers, and all believers shall perish except those who are tested, and all who are tested shall perish except the sincere ones, and the sincere ones are in grave danger"   AB06404

Reflect upon the she-camel of Salih - when she was hamstrung in the path of friendship, all the tongues of the world, from that day unto the day that hath no end, have been and shall ever be engaged in her praise and glorification   BH02988

God is the Light of the heavens and the earth. His Light is like a niche wherein is a lamp. The lamp is in a glass. The glass is as it were a brilliant star, lit from a blessed tree, an olive, neither of the east nor of the west...   BB00155

They measure not God with His true measure. The whole earth will be His handful on the Day of Resurrection, and the heavens will be rolled in His right hand. Glory be to Him! High be He exalted above the partners they attribute to Him!   BB00176

Then this blessed verse was revealed: "If good befalls them they say 'This is from God,' and if evil befalls them they say 'This is from you.' Say: All is from God. What is wrong with these people that they fail to understand any discourse?"  AB01200

Similarly, in the Qur'an it is said to Muhammad: "We have granted Thee a manifest victory, that God may forgive Thee Thy past and future sins." Now, these words, though apparently addressed to Muhammad, were in reality meant for all His people.  AB00168

hear what the All-Merciful has revealed in the Qur'an. Concerning the Beloved's ascension, He quotes one of the Prophets saying: "Verily, I have abandoned the religion of a people who believe not in God and who are disbelievers in the Hereafter."  BH08031

We have explained before that what the sacred scriptures most often mean by the Holy City or divine Jerusalem is the religion of God, which has at times been likened to a bride, or called "Jerusalem", or depicted as the new heaven and the new earth.   AB00061

If thou hast read the Qur'an aforetime, thou must surely be convinced that it is a Book from God, Whom all do worship. We revealed it for none other than that Book, and all that thou hast read was not permitted thee except that thou mightest read this.  BB00087

These are the days of the appearance of that which the All-Merciful revealed in the Qur'an, blessed and exalted be His Word: "And if there be the weight of a mustard seed and it be in a rock, or in the heavens, or in the earth, God will bring it forth."  BH01857

Then shone forth the sun of the word that dawned from the horizon of the mouth of Muhammad, the Messenger of God - His word is the truth - when He said: "When Satan says to man 'Disbelieve!', then when he disbelieves, Satan says 'I am innocent of you.'"   BH03368

The people of the Furqan have remained deprived of true unity. Were the Supreme Pen to move in this station according to what is intended, clamor would be raised from all directions. Therefore doth it speak with measure and uttereth according to measure.   BH00962

Regarding Abraham, Islam mentions that the sun stood still - this is what is meant. For example, the splitting of the moon - if one who saw it had believed because of it... These things have meanings, but Islam absolutely will not accept this interpretation.  ABU1683

Consider what is said in the Qur'an: Alas for the servants! There comes not a Messenger to them but they mock at him. What! Whenever there came to you a Messenger with what your souls desired not, you were arrogant, so you called some liars and some you slew.  AB01635

'He brings forth the living from the dead, and the dead from the living.' 'No soul shall bear another's burden'... In the Quran it says: 'Let those who are solicitous about the welfare of their young children after their own death take care not to wrong orphans.'  AB00821

"Do they not see that they are tried every year once or twice?" "We shall surely test you with something of fear and hunger, and decrease of goods and lives and fruits" "Do men think that they will be left alone on saying 'We believe' and they will not be tested"   AB01196

He is the Truth, there is no God but He, the Lord of the Glorious Throne, and He is God, Who hath ever been All-Knowing, the Ancient of Days. And He is God Who hath caused the Quran to be sent down in the Preserved Tablet as glorious images of the Praiseworthy Gate.  BB00002

God saith in His mighty Book: "And We will surely try you with something of fear and hunger and loss of wealth and lives and fruits; but give glad tidings to the patient." And likewise He saith: "Those who patiently persevere will truly receive a reward without measure."  AB08237

They claimed there was no apparent connection between certain verses, and that some verses violated Arabic grammar rules, such as His words, exalted be His mention: His name shall be the Messiah and Verily this is one of the greatest and These two are certainly sorcerers.  BB00036

"What then is the meaning of 'there is nothing green or dry but it is [recorded] in a Clear Book'?" and "'She said: I seek refuge from thee with the Beneficent God, if thou art God-fearing.'" and "'Why do you not bring us an offering which fire [from heaven] shall consume?'"  ABU1993

In the Qur'an it states: "Then We gave the Book for an inheritance to such of Our servants as We chose: but there are among them some who wrong their own souls; some who follow a middle course; and some who are, by God's leave, foremost in good deeds. That is the highest Grace."   AB03573

It is said in the Quran: 'They will never attain (unto Divine Bounty) except through severe trials.' It is said in the Quran: 'Did ye suppose that ye will enter the Paradise, but when trials, similar unto those suffered by men before you, come upon you, you were overcome with grief and afflictions?'   ABU0840

"During the sojourn in Iraq, many aspects of interpretation were revealed, such that if a discerning knower were to reflect on the Book known as "The Uncle" and likewise on the interpretation of the disconnected letters and other matters, he would comprehend all previous verses and find their meaning."   BH01733

At a meeting with Manuchihr Khan, this question was posed to the Bab: 'Was the Qur'an intended only for those who were present at the time of its revelation, or was it addressed also to those who were absent?' The Bab responded, 'There is no distinction between present and absent in the estimation of God.'  ABU2166

In the Qur'an too it was revealed with perfect clarity: "Surely those who believe, and those who are Jews, and the Christians, and the Sabians - whoever believes in God and the Last Day and does good, they shall have their reward from their Lord. And there will be no fear for them, nor shall they grieve."   ABU1075

Whose Book is the Qur'an? All His faithful replied: It is God's Book. Then He asked them, Is there any difference seen between the Furqan and the Bayan? to which those endued with understanding heart answered, Nay! By God! All are from our Lord, and none will take heed except those who are endued with vision.  BB00001

You wrote that they have some knowledge of the Qur'an - then how is it the clear text of the Qur'an was not considered? The Beauty of Muhammad, by the explicit text of the Qur'an, states: "If I had knowledge of the unseen, I would have secured abundance of good, nor do I know what shall befall me and you tomorrow."  AB04272

Indeed, not every soul is worthy of this spiritual Kawthar. They have not yet understood the meaning of "Seal of the Prophets" as revealed in the Qur'an, for it is clear and evident that after the ending of Prophethood, both implicitly and explicitly, the appearance of God is mentioned and recorded in the Divine Book.   BH00388

In the seventy fourth chapter of the Koran called "The Greeks" the following verse occurs significant of the present situation: 'Destruction hath appeared by land and by sea on account of what men's hands have wrought, that it might make them taste somewhat of the fruit of their doings, that haply they might turn to God.'  ABU0599

The majority of scholars who knew not the meaning of the Qur'an and wished to reconcile the clear verse with Ptolemaic principles - which were but illusions or like a mirage in the desert that the thirsty one supposeth to be water - said that the beings that move by will in heaven refer to the angels of the Supreme Concourse.  AB00501

And verily it is the truth from God, and in the Mother Book according to the decree of the Book it hath been inscribed in most eloquent Arabic. And verily it is the most articulate among the most eloquent ones, and it is the Most Great Talisman in truth, and verily in the Mother Book it hath been inscribed as a mystic talisman.  BB00002

In the name of God, the Most Compassionate, the Most Merciful. This blessed Surah contains seven definitive verses in the sight of God. The first verse is the Book of Muhammad, may God's peace be upon him and his family, wherein God hath ordained the laws of existence that hath no beginning and no end, and it is the Paradise of Heaven.   BB00455

The Qur'an is of two kinds: decisive verses and allegorical verses. This is of the allegorical kind and has an interpretation. This is of the kind that none knoweth its interpretation save God and those well-grounded in knowledge. And there are many verses of this kind, such as the story of Dhul-Qarnayn, Solomon and Bilqis, and their like.  ABU0175

Know thou with absolute certainty, and through the firmly established and most irrevocable decree, that He -- exalted be His glory, and magnified be His might, and sanctified be His holiness, and glorified be His grandeur, and lauded be His ways, maketh each thing to be known through its own self; who then can know Him through any one except Himself?  BH00005

Although this servant submitted his resignation from being an interpreter of the Book at the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty - for praise be to God, there are mujtahids present who have the power and capacity to derive laws from the Book and there is no need for 'Abdu'l-Baha - yet solely for thy sake, the explanation of this blessed verse is given  AB12301

The Qur'an clearly states: "And among His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures He has scattered through them both." It says "in them both" not "in it" - clearly indicating that living creatures exist in both, since "creature" refers to a living, moving being. Despite this clarity, no one until now has noticed this.   AB03635

As for the story of Zayd and Zaynab, these are external accounts - the truth can be derived from the Quran itself, as it is explicit in the Quran. In brief, Zayd was the Prophet's adopted son and He had arranged Zayd's marriage contract with Zaynab... But in the Quran the wife of an adopted son is not forbidden to the adoptive father - marriage is permitted.   AB00338

In the name of Truth, concerning the explanation of Kumayl ibn Ziyad al-Nakha'i, who one day rode behind Ali (peace be upon him) on his camel. Kumayl asked, O my master, what is Truth? He replied, What have you to do with Truth? Kumayl said, Am I not a confidant of your secret? He answered, Indeed you are, but that which overflows from me only trickles upon you.  BB00151

Were it not that mankind would have become one community, We would have given those who disbelieve in the All-Merciful, houses with roofs of silver, and stairs whereon to mount, and doors to their houses, and couches whereon to recline, and ornaments. Yet all this would have been but a provision of the life of this world. And the Hereafter with thy Lord is for the God-fearing.  BB00082

Through their ignorance of these meanings people have always remained veiled from the manifestations of the bounties of Him Who is the Causer of Causes. Although in the divine scriptures mention is made of a heaven and an earth other than the physical heaven and earth, yet they have interpreted these signs literally and have deprived themselves of spiritual worlds and divine knowledge.   ABU2981

Consider the abrogating and abrogated verses in the Furqan, how certain verses were revealed and then abrogated by subsequent ones. It would seem the polytheists of the Bayan have not even read the Qur'an. What say they to this, that even before the previous verse's decree had been established and confirmed among the people, how could it be permissible for it to be abrogated by another verse?  BH00060

When thou hast recognized the decree of divine manifestation, make the qiblih of thy heart the appearance of the verse There is no God but God, and the qiblih of thy mind Muhammad is the Messenger of God, peace be upon him and his family, and the qiblih of thy soul him whom God hath named today as the Remnant of God, who is better for the believers than their own selves, would they but understand.  BB00006

We send down water from the sky, and the valleys flow according to their measure, and the flood beareth along a swelling foam. And from that which they heat in the fire for the sake of making ornaments, there ariseth a foam like unto it. Thus doth God set forth truth and falsehood. As for the foam, it passeth away as scum upon the banks, while that which is of use to mankind, remaineth in the earth.  AB03613

Can the seal suffice thee in place of the Ancient of Days? Nay, by His Most Great Name! Awaken, O heedless outcast! Say: Even wert thou to possess all the scriptures of those who have gone before and those who shall come after, each adorned with the seal of the Dawning-Places of My Cause and the Manifestations of My Names, it would profit thee not this Day except that thou shouldst follow this Straight Path.   BH01041

In the clear Book of God, the Qur'an, He says: "The Day whereon a man shall flee from his mother and his father, and his sister and his brother, and his wife and his children." That is, on the Promised Day, which is the Greater Resurrection, man will flee from father, mother, brother, sister, spouse and son, for perhaps one becomes a believer and certitude-possessor in God while his kith and kin turn away from God.   AB01827

O thou who art alive with the water of life! Look with the gaze of the Beginning at what thou hast asked concerning the path of wisdom, and be assured that the letters of the Qur'an have stations that none among creation can encompass, and of them are those that none among the servants can encompass, even as God hath revealed in the Qur'an, addressing His Beloved: Thou knewest not what the Book was, nor what the faith.  BB00045

On one occasion, I observed him [Bahjet Jurjus Jamal] engrossed in a volume and, upon inquiry, he revealed it to be an account of the Prophet's Night Journey. When asked what benefit he derived from such study, he responded with unmistakable sarcasm that he wished to ascertain the manner of the Prophet's ascension to heaven. I replied with measured deliberation that the matter was of exceeding simplicity, requiring no scholarly investigation, for the Prophet had ascended by the selfsame ladder that Christ had utilized.  ABU1254

It is evident that, according to the consummate wisdom of God, during the time of the Seal of the Prophets - may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - certain events occurred, and according to the requirements of the time and circumstances, the events of former Prophets were revealed and explained. Therefore, the mention of certain Prophets and the events of their days was made in the Mighty Qur'an according to the consummate wisdom.  AB00940

"In the mighty Qur'an, which is the glorious Text of the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate, among the characteristics of the people of faith is this verse: 'and they prefer others before themselves, although poverty be their own lot' and 'The likeness of those who spend their wealth in God's way is as the likeness of a grain that groweth seven ears, in every ear a hundred grains. Allah giveth increase manifold to whom He will.'"   AB07577

Regarding the she-camel of Salih, in the sacred writings it indicates that it was the holy person of Salih himself, and from the milk of inner meanings flowing from the divine breast of that blessed being, spiritual sustenance and divine milk was bestowed. But the evil souls hamstrung that divine she-camel, denied and rejected it, and were seized with painful torment of deprivation, unbelief and rebellion, falling into eternal destruction.   AB00768

As Al-'Askari explained in his commentary on the All-Merciful... And in the Majma' from the ?adiq and al-Qummi from 'Ali, they both read By the time! Verily man is in loss until the end of time. And in the Thawab al-A'mal and the Majma' from the ?adiq: Whosoever recites 'By the time!' in his voluntary prayers, God will raise him on the Day of Resurrection with his face radiant, his teeth gleaming, and his eyes bright, until he enters Paradise.  BB00010

One, like the second Caliph, said "The Book of God is sufficient for us." Another, like the son of Hind, began to weep and lament and cry out "Alas for he of the two lights! Woe unto him who equipped the army of difficulty!" Another cried "Alas for the Law! Alas for the Religion!" And another, like those who hated the Prince of Martyrs, declared "He has made lawful what God made unlawful and made unlawful what God made lawful, and abandoned fasting and prayer."   AB02594

These two opposite natures stood on the top of the mountain (mountain-top means lofty station). The Satan or earthly nature showed to the Divine Nature all the worldly riches and joys, urging the Divine Nature to take and enjoy them (for Christ, of course, would have been a material king, the greatest the world ever saw). Then the Divine Nature triumphed and showed forth all the great spiritual gifts of the Kingdom of God which that Nature preferred to all else.  ABU0320

And God hath not forbidden unto any soul save what Israel forbade unto himself, whereunto the Worshipped One hath referred in His praiseworthy utterance: "All food was lawful unto the Children of Israel save what Israel forbade for himself." Verily, Ali - peace be upon him - forbade nothing unto himself save what the Thing forbade unto itself, for God created all things through him and granted them, in the form of their acceptance, the judgment of their own souls.   BB00249

Orthodox (rightly believing) Muslims taught that the Qur'an had been revealed to the Prophet at a certain time, but that it, the Qur'an, as the Word of God, had originated in eternity, that it was one of the eternal attributes of God. The freethinkers, however, the Mu'tazilites, said that it was unseemly to believe in an eternal Qur'an next to Allah, that this was idolatry and contrary to the concept of the absolute unity, absolute eternity, absolute indivisibility of God!   ABU0148

And verily, like the spring breeze, it passed not by any tree among the trees of the temples of those who have turned unto Him except that it clothed it in the garments of knowledge, adorned it with the leaves of inner meaning and utterance, and crowned it with the flowers of wisdom and exposition. Likewise did it uproot the trees of the temples of the veiled ones from their very roots and foundation from the ground of hesitation, rendering them fit for the fire and fuel for the hell of remoteness.  AB00017

"But if you go straightway to the Koran you will find no verse which may even indicate slightly the formulation of such a strange, narrow creed. On the contrary you will come across the following significant verse: 'The people of the Books, such as Christians, Jews, Moslems and Sabeans and those who believe in the Unity and Singleness of God and the immortality of the soul and practice charity and are benevolent and are kind to the poor and take care of the orphans,- they are the people of Salvation.'"  ABU1513

As for Khidr, he was the reality of Moses himself, not another person. By virtue of divine reality, ordinances were issued that human minds were incapable of comprehending, for they were extraordinary. The purpose of this story is that the Holy Manifestations of God do whatsoever They will and decree whatsoever They desire. Whatever They command must be obeyed. One should never harbor doubt or hesitation as to whether such a decree outwardly conforms with justice and fairness. Such mental wandering leads to rebellion and transgression.  AB02587

Should anyone reflect upon what the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an, he would become aware of the greatness of this blessed Day. Among the verses revealed from the heaven of Will concerning the meeting with God, He says, glorified and exalted be He: "It is God Who hath raised the heavens without pillars thou canst behold; then mounted His throne, and imposed laws on the sun and moon: each travels to its appointed goal. He ordereth all things. He maketh His signs clear, that ye may believe with certainty in the meeting with your Lord."   BH00217

In the Quran it is mentioned that seven tribes came before the Secret of Being and Essence of Purpose, His Holiness Muhammad, peace be upon Him. Each made his faith contingent upon a miracle. One said: Bring down a book from heaven. Another said: Cast down a fragment of heaven to earth. Another said: Make a spring to flow. Another said: Ascend to heaven. Another said: Show us the Lord with His hosts. Another said: Produce a treasure. Another said: Bring forth the lofty paradise. In reply to all of these He declares: Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?  AB08407

Similarly, questions were asked about the disconnected letters. During the sojourn of the Day Star of the horizons in Iraq, countless verses were revealed concerning these matters, some of which were sent. By My life! If thou wert to look with penetrating vision, thou wouldst find therein that which would make thee soar in the atmosphere of wisdom and utterance. Reflect upon those revealed verses, for We have deposited in the depths of those allusions the mysteries of thy Lord, the Source of verses. Oceans of meanings lie concealed therein, and divine consummate wisdom is hidden therein.   BH00869

Among the objections of the idolaters was to this blessed verse which declareth We make no distinction between any of His Messengers. They objected that 'ahad' cannot be used between, and thus did they mock and protest against this divine and conclusive Word. Likewise did they object to the blessed verse He it is Who hath created for you all that is on earth, then turned He to the heaven and fashioned it as seven heavens, saying it contradicted other verses wherein the creation of heaven preceded that of earth. They also objected to the blessed verse We created you, then fashioned you, then told the angels: Prostrate to Adam, claiming that the angels' prostration preceded the forming of creation.  BH00151

As to the matter of statements attributed to Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsa'i, upon him be all the Most Glorious Glory of God: the original statements were written by one of the Shaykhi school who inquired about them in Iraq. Several errors were observed therein, but no attention was paid to correcting them. The statements were copied exactly as written by the scribe, as is also referenced in the Tablet to Mir Karim Khan. One passage from these statements will be mentioned, that thou mayest be assured that thy Lord is indeed the All-Knowing, the All-Wise: "The letter Vav comprises three letters making six, and one Alif, and six, and six days have passed." This refers to the creation of the heavens and earth in six days.   BH00415

Thou hast asked about the blessed Quranic verse We have given thee the twice-repeated seven. The Muslim divines have interpreted the term twice-repeated seven to refer either to the seven chapters of the Qur'an that begin with the disconnected letters Ha' and Mim or to the opening chapter of the Qur'an. They say it is twice repeated because the opening chapter, consisting of seven verses, was revealed twice--once in Mecca and again in Medina--and, as such, it is twice repeated. Furthermore, they say that as this opening chapter is recited twice in the daily prayer, it is thus described as the twice-repeated seven. But the true meaning is the mystery of Divine Unity and the outpourings of heavenly grace, and that is the glad-tidings of the advent of the subsequent Revelation, in which the Bearer of the seven letters hath appeared twice. The first seven letters correspond to 'Ali-Muhammad, and the second seven to Husayn-'Ali. This is the meaning of the twice-repeated seven. Yet another meaning is that Muhammad, the universal Manifestation of the Quranic Dispensation, together with thirteen distinguished souls, make fourteen, which is seven twice repeated.  AB02359

one should occupy oneself with reciting the Qur'an...As much as thou canst, recite the Qur'an and explain its interpretation and inner meaning. And from time to time, recite prayers and the Sahifa-i-Sajjadiyya with utmost humility and submissiveness   AB02465


Hud came and called the people of the earth to the Lord of existence and the Sovereign of the unseen and seen   BH04696

Salih came and with perfect joy and fragrance guided the people of earth to the horizon of the favor of the Desired One of the worlds   BH04696

By the Naqih [She-camel] is intended the Prophet Salih. They injured Him and decided to slay Him. However those who planned to destroy the Faith of God, were themselves destroyed by God.  ABU2140

As for that spring, it was the spring of life in this world, and "from water We made all things living." Those obstinate people wanted the life of this ephemeral world entirely for themselves, so they rose up in denial, pride, harm and oppression and hamstrung that divine she-camel. And when they denied that divine she-camel, the result and effect of that holy one departed from among that people and disappeared.   AB00768

after Noah the light of the countenance of Hud shone forth above the horizon of creation. For well-nigh seven hundred years, according to the sayings of men, He exhorted the people to turn their faces and draw nearer unto the Ridvan of the divine presence. What showers of afflictions rained upon Him, until at last His adjurations bore the fruit of increased rebelliousness, and His assiduous endeavours resulted in the willful blindness of His people. "And their unbelief shall only increase for the unbelievers their own perdition." And after Him there appeared from the Ridvan of the Eternal, the Invisible, the holy person of Salih, Who again summoned the people to the river of everlasting life. For over a hundred years He admonished them to hold fast unto the commandments of God and eschew that which is forbidden. His admonitions, however, yielded no fruit, and His pleading proved of no avail. Several times He retired and lived in seclusion. All this, although that eternal Beauty was summoning the people to no other than the city of God. Even as it is revealed: "And unto the tribe of Thamud We sent their brother Salih. 'O my people,' said He, 'Worship God, ye have none other God beside Him....' They made reply: 'O Salih, our hopes were fixed on thee until now; forbiddest thou us to worship that which our fathers worshipped? Truly we misdoubt that whereunto thou callest us as suspicious.'" All this proved fruitless, until at last there went up a great cry, and all fell into utter perdition. BH00002
