
I hope that ye may cause that downtrodden race to become glorious, and to be joined with the white race, to serve the world of man with the utmost sincerity, faithfulness, love, and purity.  AB10765

Consider the power of the Word of God that has brought opposites together. The unity of black and white was impossible and unattainable, but the breaths of the Holy Spirit brings them together.  AB02915

no distinction remains between black and white - all are near to the Divine Threshold and all are beloved in the sight of 'Abdu'l-Baha  AB03102

The whites in America fought four years to liberate the slaves. This effect has stirred the people in Europe and the East to do the same thing. Even in Africa the blacks have been partly emancipated. The blacks should be grateful for these efforts of the whites.   ABU1471

Say to this convention that never since the beginning of time has a convention of more importance been held. This convention stands for the oneness of humanity. It will become the cause of the removal of hostilities between the races. It will become the cause of the enlightenment of America. It will, if wisely managed and continued, check the deadly struggle between these races, which otherwise will inevitably break out. ABU3106

A coloured man from South Africa who was visiting 'Abdu'l-Baha, said that even now no white people really cared very much for the black man.  'Abdu'l-Baha replies: Compare the present time and the feeling towards the coloured people now, with the state of feeling two or three hundred years ago, and see how much better it is at present. In a short time the relationship between the coloured and white people will still further improve, and bye and bye no difference will be felt between them. White doves and purple doves exist, but both kinds are doves. Baha'u'llah once compared the coloured people to the black pupil of the eye surrounded by the white. In this black pupil you see the reflection of that which is before it, and through it the light of the Spirit shines forth. 	In the sight of God colour makes no difference at all, He looks at the hearts of men. That which God desires from men is the heart. A black man with a good character is far superior to a white man with a character that is less good.  ABU2115

Asked if intermarriage between different races was right and advisable, He replied:  Yes.  As in the vegetable world the best results are obtained when one kind of fruit is grafted on another, so in the human family, the best and strongest children are obtained by intermarriage between different races.   ABU3408

If the races do not come to an agreement, there can be no question or doubt of bloodshed. When I was in America, I told the white and colored people that it was incumbent upon them to be united or else there would be the shedding of blood. I did not say more than this so that they might not be saddened. But, indeed, there is a greater danger than only the shedding of blood. It is the destruction of America. Because aside from the racial prejudice there is another agitating factor. It is that of America's enemies. These enemies are agitating both sides, that is, they are stirring up the white race against the colored race and the colored race against the white race. But of this the Americans are submerged in the sea of ignorance. They will regret it. But of what use will their regret be after the destruction of America? Will it be of any use then?  ABU2309

I foretell things before they happen and I write about them before they occur. The destruction of two or three houses is of no importance, but the importance lies in what is coming, which is the destruction of America. The Arabs have many proverbs. For instance, 'Heavy rains begin with drops before it pours,' and 'The dancer starts with shaking the shoulder, then the whole body.' Now is the time for the Americans to take up this matter and united both the white and the colored races. Otherwise, hasten ye towards destruction! Hasten ye toward devastation! ABU2309

suffer the various races of men to become as one race   AB05484

You are all, of every race and creed, members of one family.   ABU3042

A close friendship was created between the black and white people.  ABU1835

These causes are racial, patriotic and religious bias or prejudice.  ABU3401

The news of the spread of the Cause among the blacks brought great joy.  AB05421

God has made all mankind of one family; no race is superior to another.   ABU3585

Close your eyes to racial differences, and welcome all with the light of oneness.  BH11361

Shall racial ideas prevail and obscure the creative purpose of unity in his kingdom?  ABU0016

although being of black color, yet he shone as a bright light in the meeting of the Friends  AB02197

Here am I a Persian, and you an American...That is as it should be--the world one brotherhood   ABU3241

The sixth candle is unity of races, making of all that dwell on earth peoples and kindreds of one race.  AB00143

Look upon the people of your own race and those of other races as members of one organism; sons of the same Father.   ABU1446

Baha'u'llah hath said that the various races of humankind lend a composite harmony and beauty of color to the whole.  ABU0627

Although that sinless one was black in color, like unto the black pupil of the eye, he was a source of shining light.   AB00425

In the clustered jewels of the races may the blacks be as sapphires and rubies and the whites as diamonds and pearls.   ABU0701

cause both black and white races to close their eyes to colors...become the cause of guidance for both groups - black and white  AB04790

The best thing for it is to accept these teachings. In this way they will gain the confidence of the whites and differences will fade.  ABU3409

In the estimation of God all men are equal. There is no distinction or preference for any soul, in the realm of His justice and equity  AB11562

In the world of being the meeting is blessed when the white and colored races meet together with infinite spiritual love and heavenly harmony.  AB11292

Praise be to God that white and colored, like unto the face and the hair of the Beloved of the Worlds, gathered together in utmost love and joy  AB08182

The gathering of whites and blacks under the banner raised by the hand of the power of your Lord, the Mighty, the Loving, increased everyone's joy   AB05919

Mr. Gregory must demonstrate a self-sacrificing spirit in teaching the Cause amongst the black race, diffuse the fragrances of God in every part of the South  ABU0817

My hope is that the friends may become the cause of establishing love and fellowship among all religions, and that all different races may embrace one another.  AB12315

Strive with heart and soul that the black people may enter God's Kingdom, their hearts become illumined, they acquire heavenly character and attain eternal glory  AB00544

The Jew and the Muslim will blend together like sugar and flowers, achieving complete fusion. They will be waves of one sea, forces of one army, birds of one garden  AB10456

Tell them a Baha'i is a person who is free from all prejudices--racial prejudices, religious prejudices, political prejudices, social prejudices, economic prejudices.   ABU3501

This is the prime duty of the proprietors of newspapers, to eradicate misunderstandings between religions and races and nationalities and promote the oneness of mankind.  ABU3302

"There is no racial, political or patriotic tie. We are drawn together by the words of Baha'u'llah, and in like manner will all the races of the earth be drawn together."  ABU3248

How good is the intention! And what an excellent aim this great aim is! Indeed the hearts of the Africans are as a blank scroll of paper upon which thou canst write any phrase  AB05438

Gradually racial prejudices will be dispelled. There will come a day when the German will say to the Frenchman, 'I am a Frenchman'; and the Frenchman will say, 'I am a German'.   ABU3258

When a gathering of these two races is brought about, that assemblage will become the magnet of the Concourse on high, and the confirmation of the Blessed Beauty will surround it.  AB11543

Strive with heart and soul to create fellowship between black and white and to prove the Baha'i unity - that colors have absolutely no importance, rather it is hearts that matter.   AB02916

If you meet those of a different race and color from yourself, do not mistrust them, and withdraw yourself into your shell of conventionality, but rather be glad and show them kindness.  ABU0491

Then he spoke about the marriage of Mr and Mrs Gregory very beautifully and of the meetings of the white and colored friends and of the harmony which he has established amongst the races.   ABU1129

During the time I was in America, I strove mightily that great affection and unity be established between white and black... Therefore strive that intense love may be produced between black and white.   AB02583

Every student should know, with perfect certainty, that he is the brother of the people of all religions and nations and that he should be without religious, racial, national, patriotic or political bias  ABU0938


"Be very kind to Mrs. Kanno because she is the wife of a Japanese. She has been persecuted for marrying a Japanese. It is well to become the wife of a Japanese. That is a bond, uniting the East and the West."  ABU1342

when black and white gathered in one meeting and completely eliminated distinctions of race and differences of color. When an assembly of these two races is arranged, it becomes a magnet for the Concourse on High  AB02529

If a man has spiritual characteristics, be he white or black, he is near to God. Some have protested to me, asking why I seek to cultivate love between the whites and the blacks. Yet what a great error they make.  ABU2128

My hope is that through the endeavors of the friends, the standard of the Lord of Hosts may be raised among the black race and the lights of guidance may be so diffused that the black race may become equal to the white race.  AB08239

The formation of gatherings of blacks and whites is a cause for the manifestation of the oneness of humanity. It will completely erase and eliminate racial prejudice and give everyone to drink from the spring of the water of life.   AB01694

This question will only be solved thru' the Teachings of Baha'o'llah...In some of the recent race riots some white men colored themselves black to instigate trouble...We have many beautiful colored friends in America and in Boston.  ABU3080

Convey to Mr. Gregory and Mrs. Dober the Most Glorious and Most Wondrous greetings, and show them the utmost kindness on my behalf, for they are blessed souls who have opened their home and show love and kindness to the black race.   AB04660

There should be no differentiation between the blacks and the whites. All are the creatures of God. All are created by one God. There is no black and white in the Kingdom of God. The purest heart is the best whether white or black.   ABU2528

What does it matter if the skin of a man is black, white, yellow, pink, or green? In this respect the animals show more intelligence than man. Black sheep and white sheep, white doves and blue do not quarrel because of difference of colour.  ABU3379

You are loosed from ancient superstitions which have kept men ignorant, destroying the foundations of true humanity. The gift of God of this enlightened age is the knowledge of the oneness of mankind and the fundamental oneness of religion.  ABU1120

The colored people must attend all the unity meetings. There must be no distinctions. All are equal. If you have any influence to get the races to intermarry, it will be very valuable. Such unions will beget very strong and beautiful children.   ABU3197

God maketh no distinction between the white and the black. If the hearts are pure both are acceptable unto Him. God is no respecter of persons on account of either color or race. All colors are acceptable unto Him, be they white, black, or yellow.  AB11278

All humanity are the children of God; they belong to the same family, to the same original race. There can be no multiplicity of races, since all are the descendants of Adam. This signifies that racial assumption and distinction are nothing but superstition.   ABU0052

Regarding the Ethiopian people - they are a people descended from both Shem and Ham. The two lineages intermingled and mixed until the Ethiopian people emerged. Thus they are not purely from Ham's lineage nor purely from Shem's lineage, but are mixed from both.   AB02443

In America, when I see the colored and white people together in this assembly I am very much pleased. I see white and colored people sitting together. Before God there is no distinction of color; all colors are one, and that one is the color of servitude to God.... You must try to create love between yourselves; and this love does not come about unless you are grateful to the whites, and the whites are loving toward you, and endeavor to promote your advancement and enhance your honor. This will be the cause of love. Differences between black and white will be completely obliterated; indeed, ethnic and national differences will all disappear.  ABU0308

Strive earnestly and put forth your greatest endeavor toward the accomplishment of this fellowship and the cementing of this bond of brotherhood between you... For the accomplishment of unity between the colored and white will be an assurance of the world's peace.  AB10764

This is one of the wonders of this age, that an oriental and an occidental can meet each other on a common ground. Although there exists among them no racial, no patriotic, or political relations, yet they love each other as though they belonged to the same race.   ABU2820

"Are the colored and white believers entirely united?" Referring to the friends, I answered that there was not entire unity, but that there were earnest souls of both races who desired closer unity and hoped that He would point out to them the means of attaining it.  ABU3388

beneficial results shall surely follow these meetings, and that they will become the means of establishing friendship and love among the world's different races. Thus the basis of enmity may be destroyed and the tent of unity of the world of humanity be raised throughout all regions  AB04999

Despite such prejudice, in Baha'i gatherings blacks and whites were like brothers and sisters. Even marriages between blacks and whites took place in the Baha'i Faith, such as the union of Mrs. Matthews, a white woman, with Mr. Gregory, a black man - an event that appeared extraordinary in people's eyes.  ABU2717

We rejoice at these great tidings and we hope that the fellowship between the white and black races will increase and that estrangement will vanish in this promised age, until they become intimate friends, steadfast in loyalty, and brethren reclining upon couches, face to face, attracted to the manifest light.  AB00306

tell her she must greatly endeavor through the assistance of heaven to cast light among the colored people so that they may become as our brothers; no blacks, no whites; both as one. By this means you shall free Americans from all prejudice. Because in the Kingdom of God all are the same, whether black or white.   ABU2690

This is the cause of great happiness, for the colored and white are gathered together. When I was in Washington some of the notables there said they wanted to see me but that if we had the colored people they could not come. But now I see in this photograph that colored and white are in the utmost love and unity.   ABU0475


In the Kingdom of God no distinction is made as to the colour of the skin, whether it be black or white; nay, rather the heart and soul are considered. If the spirit is pure, the face is illumined, although it be black. If the heart is stained, the face is dull and despondent, although it may be of the utmost beauty.  AB03739


As I stand here tonight and look upon this assembly, I am reminded curiously of a beautiful bouquet of violets gathered together in varying colors, dark and light. This is an evidence and indication that the United States of America is a just and free government, for I see black and white seated together in perfect harmony and agreement.  ABU0157

In Washington, too, we called a meeting of the blacks and whites. The attendance was very large, the blacks predominating. At our second gathering this was reversed, but at the third meeting we were unable to say which color predominated. These meetings were a great practical lesson upon the unity of colors and races in the Baha'i teaching.  We said in part: The black man must ever be grateful to the white man, for he has manifested great courage and self-sacrifice in behalf of the black race. Four years he fought their cause, enduring severe hardships, sacrificing life, family, treasure, all for his black brother until the great war ended in the proclamation of freedom. By this effort and accomplishment the black race throughout the world was influenced and benefited. Had this not been accomplished, the black man in Africa would still be bound by the chains of slavery. Therefore, his race should everywhere be grateful, for no greater evidence of humanism and courageous devotion could be shown than the white man has displayed. If the blacks of the United States forget this sacrifice, zeal and manhood on the part of the whites, no ingratitude could be greater or more censurable. If they could see the wretched conditions and surroundings of the black people of Africa today, the contrast would be apparent and the fact clearly evident that the black race in America enjoys incomparable advantages. The comfort and civilization under which they live here are due to the white man's effort and sacrifice. Had this sacrifice not been made, they would still be in the bonds and chains of slavery, scarcely lifted out of an aboriginal condition. Therefore, always show forth your gratitude to the white man. Eventually all differences will disappear, and you will completely win his friendship. ABU0120

Or the unifying force may be race, people being of the same race. Race is a unifying force but has no real authority. Among themselves there are severe conflicts, but when faced with outsiders, they defend themselves. Yet it has no authority and is superficial; it does not blend people together. It does not unite individuals with one another.   ABU0987

Truly I say he is confirmed, for he believes in His Holiness Baha'u'llah with his heart and soul. I pray in his behalf that he may become the means of the illumination of the Negro world in America and that the two races may associate with each other in amity and that all of them like unto a flock of doves--white and black--may soar toward the supreme apex.  AB11492

Blessed are you, to whom the White and Black are equal. Wisdom is attained through the light of the heart and not through the skin, and blackness is the darkness of the heart and not the darkness of the face. One sees the reflection of a person in the black, in the pupil of the eye. How many there are whose face is black and whose character is white and enlightened.  AB12530

"We must conclude that color is not the standard and estimate of judgment and that it is of no importance, for color is accidental in nature. The spirit and intelligence of man is essential, and that is the manifestation of divine virtues, the merciful bestowals of God, the eternal life and baptism through the Holy Spirit. Therefore, be it known that color or race is of no importance."  ABU0573

Intense is the hatred, in America, between black and white, but my hope is that the power of the Kingdom will bind these two in friendship, and serve them as a healing balm. Let them look not upon a man's colour but upon his heart. If the heart be filled with light, that man is nigh unto the threshold of his Lord; but if not, that man is careless of his Lord, be he white or be he black.  AB08135

Between these two races certain points of agreement and points of distinction exist which warrant just and mutual consideration. The points of contact are many; for in the material or physical plane of being, both are constituted alike and exist under the same law of growth and bodily development. Furthermore, both live and move in the plane of the senses and are endowed with human intelligence.  ABU0627

Though outwardly you are in distant lands, in reality you are present in spirit and heart in the Blessed Spot, gathered beneath the banner of guidance and encompassed by endless favors. Praise be to God that the gates of the Kingdom have opened, the divine call has been raised, and no distinction remains between black and white - all are near to the Divine Threshold and all are beloved in the sight of 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB03102


For the black and white in America to associate together in a social way is good. The Government has objections on political grounds for granting equality to the blacks, but you can promote friendly intercourse without interfering with politics. Doves or sheep of different color associate without conflict. Why should man, who is higher than the animal, observe distinctions based on color? It is not proper for man to do such a thing.   ABU1471

Whether logical proofs or traditional proofs, before God there is no distinction of white or coloured. Whosoever has a pure heart, his deeds are better and more acceptable before the threshold of the Almighty, though he may be red or yellow. It is evident the coloured and the white people belong to the same human family. In reality they are of the same human household in which colours, as in all departments of life, are used for adornment.  ABU0003

Observe how numerous were the diverse nations, races, clans and tribes who, after the advent of Christ, gathered through the power of the love of God under the shadow of His Word. Consider how the differences and divisions of a thousand years were entirely abolished, how the delusion of the superiority of race and nation was dispelled, how the unity of souls and sentiments was attained, and how all became Christians in truth and in spirit.   AB00063

This opposition, enmity, and prejudice among the white race and the coloured cannot be effaced except through faith, assurance, and the teachings of the Blessed Beauty... This question of the union of the white and the black is very important, for if it is not realized, erelong great difficulties will arise, and harmful results will follow ... enmity will be increased day by day, and the final result will be hardship and may end in bloodshed.  AB10765

One of the great reasons of separation is color. Look how this prejudice has power in America, for instance. See how they hate one another! Think over this. Animals do not quarrel because of their color! Surely man should not, who is so much higher in creation. What ignorance exists. White doves do not quarrel with other doves that are blue, because of their color but white men fight with dark colored men. This racial prejudice is the worst of all.   ABU1651

When there is unity of the essence, what power hath the ephemeral? When the light of reality is shining, what power hath the darkness of the unreal? If it be possible, gather together these two races - black and white - into one Assembly, and create such a love in the hearts that they shall not only unite, but blend into one reality. Know thou of a certainty that as a result differences and disputes between black and white will be totally abolished.   AB01252

Concerning the event of the gathering where four of the white and four of the colored people with the utmost love and harmony sang thy hymn with the utmost joy and fragrance, indeed this is one of the great signs of God, because it hath gathered hearts which were scattered and filled with hatred, souls which were opposing one another, disputing and repelling with enmity and made them as one soul sing the astonishing melodies of harmony in different tones.   AB05898

One of the great reasons of separation is colour. Look how this prejudice has power in America, for instance. See how they hate one another! Animals do not quarrel because of their colour! Surely man who is so much higher in creation, should not be lower than the animals. Think over this. What ignorance exists! White doves do not quarrel with blue doves because of their colour, but white men fight with dark-coloured men. This racial prejudice is the worst of all.  ABU1891

The coloured meeting was very good. The speech was well done and they understood it well. They were made very happy. The beauty of it was the black and white were mixed and the presiding officer was Rabbi Hirsch, a Jew. Praise be to God, there is a unity now between the coloured and the white, and if unity shall not be realized, the ultimate result will be very bad. The eventual happenings will be very bad. By all means, the coloured and the white must be united.   ABU0344

The Race Convention was carried through in utmost perfection... Your Convention is like the mother Convention which shall give birth to many others. If your Convention be held in future in Washington itself, it would be preferable, because in that city there is great animosity between the white and the colored. Besides in that city 'Abdu'l-Baha Himself laid the foundation of this unity and harmony in the assemblies, churches and universities of the colored and white   AB00583

Because of the climatic differences of the zones, through the passing of ages colours have become different. In the torrid zone, on account of the intensity of the effect of the sun throughout the ages the black race appeared. In the frigid zone, on account of the severity of the cold and the ineffectiveness of the heat of the sun throughout the ages the white race appeared. In the temperate zone, the yellow, brown and red races came into existence. But in reality mankind is one race.   AB02243

When I was in America and Europe I went through some of the Zoological gardens. There I saw great polar bears, savage-looking, black and white. The white bear did not say to the black bear, 'thou art of another race. I dislike thy association. Get thee behind me.' Nor the black ever grudged the whiteness of its fellow. They lived in one cage without molesting each other. Now can we confess with shame that men, notwithstanding his godlike intelligence is even inferior to these ferocious bears?   ABU2597

The race problem in America is very intense. Its non-solution will end in danger and war. The colored people have advanced much intellectually in America. They have many schools, colleges Universities and churches. They invited me to the Howard University. There were many hundreds of colored students, but a few white people could be seen here and there. In the second meeting there were more white, in the third meeting they were associating with each other - white and colored - this made me very happy.   ABU2091

Man is intelligent and thoughtful, endowed with powers of mind. Why, then, should he be influenced by distinction of color or race, since all belong to one human family? There is no sheep which shuns another as if saying, "I am white, and you are black." They graze together in complete unity, live together in fellowship and happiness. How then can man be limited and influenced by racial colors? The important thing is to realize that all are human, all are one progeny of Adam. Inasmuch as they are all one family, why should they be separated?   ABU0256

Good! It is very good. It is the cause of unity. It is very good, it is the cause of unity! The white race predominates. I am in favor of the marriage of the black and white races. It is very good. Such marriages are very good. It gives a strong second generation, and the color changes. If a white man and a black woman marry, then the child or daughter marries a white man the children will be very fine, and they will be strong and white. No they will never return to black; they will be white. This applies to the blacks of America, not of Africa.   ABU0972

If matters continue in this way, this enmity will increase day by day and ultimately cause great harm and lead to bloodshed... My hope is that this whiteness and blackness of humans will become like the whiteness and blackness of doves and sheep and other birds and animals, for difference of color causes no separation among birds and animals. You observe a flock of doves - some white, some black, some yellow, and some red - yet they fly together in utmost love and harmony. Humans too must be like this. Let there be no separation due to color, for all are human.   AB01574

Thou hast written that thou hast taught a Negro minister and his wife. I hope you may become assisted in teaching many of these souls, and endeavor that the black and the white may gather in one meeting place, and with the utmost love and fraternally associate with each other, so that this quarrel and strife may vanish from among the white and black. Nay, rather, you must endeavor that they intermarry. There is no greater tie to bring about affection between the white and the black than the influence of the Word of God. Likewise marriage between these two races will wholly destroy and eradicate the root of enmity.  AB11337

"Another excuse for war is that of race. This is black, that is yellow, you are white, he is red and then they fall on each other's lives instead of each other's neck. What utter stupidity! What sheer ignorance! These are all flimsy excuses and they stand neither the test of reason or religion. They are pure fictions of disordered minds and interested parties. While, in reality we all seek to worship the one Supreme God who is the Father of us all. He is the Shepherd and we are his flock. The whole world is one home and mankind are the members of one family. In the estimation of God there are not many races but one race and that is humanity."   ABU0237

This image and likeness of God, which to man are the great Bounties, what is the significance? Can we say that this image and likeness of God signifies simply the man, the complexion or form, especially the colours of white or dark or black? Can we confine it to the colour white? Can we say it is a black colour? Surely, colours are not the image and likeness of God. The image and likeness of God signify the virtues of the human world, the bestowals of God, the Divine Laws, the Love of God, the Knowledge of God, and the acquisition, through the Breaths of the Holy Spirit, and in this the colour, the white, the yellow, and all are co-sharers, or partners.   ABU0344

How many blacks have outpaced whites in the arena of faith, and how many whites due to black hearts have remained deprived of divine favors. In any case, there are five races on earth: the white race, the black race, the brown race, the yellow race, and the red race. Like doves - they too have different varieties. But in the world of doves, difference of color has no significance. Rather white and black and yellow and purple and red and blue doves all associate in perfect fellowship and love. And yet they are animals. How can humans, who possess reason and consciousness, be bound by these colors? This is heedlessness, this is ignorance, and this is contrary to humanity.   AB03745

One of the important questions which affect the unity and the solidarity of mankind is the fellowship and equality of the white and colored races. Between these two races certain points of agreement and points of distinction exist which warrant just and mutual consideration. The points of contact are many.... In this country, the United States of America, patriotism is common to both races; all have equal rights to citizenship, speak one language, receive the blessings of the same civilization, and follow the precepts of the same religion. In fact numerous points of partnership and agreement exist between the two races, whereas the one point of distinction is that of color. Shall this, the least of all distinctions, be allowed to separate you as races and individuals?  AB09729

Strive so that in human morality and behavior you may progress to such a degree that the names black and white may vanish.  ABU0308



If the spirit is pure, the face is illumined, although it be black. If the heart is stained, the face is dull and despondent, although it may be of the utmost beauty. The pupils of the eyes are black, yet they are the fountains of light.  AB03739

Not only in India are there castes and caste feeling. The principle of exclusiveness poisons even today the Western civilized states. The Christian Church with its hierarchy of clerics has reversed Christ's and Paul's teaching of unity. His Holiness Christ has set the slave beside the master, and what has the Church of the 19th century said to the slavery of the Negroes of America? O Baha'u'llah, Thy gentle Voice of Truth will some day penetrate as far as the churches.  ABU3038

Although the pupil of the eye is black, it is the source of light. Thou shalt likewise be. The disposition should be bright, not the appearance.  AB05052

Between 1860 and 1865 you did a wonderful thing; you knocked the shackles from chattel slavery; but today you must do a much more wonderful thing: you must destroy industrial slavery.   ABU3532
