
The believers of God must be alive with the sweet Fragrances of God.   ABU3411

"sew a Joseph's shirt that its holy fragrance may perfume the nostrils of the elder of Canaan"   AB07384

spread the fragrances of God, be submissive to the Word of God   AB02446

Although at that time one could hire a donkey for five cents, yet he could not very well afford this lavish expenditure. Nevertheless you never saw him cross or sour-tempered. He was a source of delight and happiness to all. Such souls are the bright gems in the crown of existence.  They belong to another world, they are living in the highest spiritual altitude, they are permeated through and through with the quintessence of renunciation. ABU0438

I testify that by the torch of your body, blazing in the pitch darkness, you revealed the paths through the gloom until you guided Khidr to the darknesses.   BH02189

That which is attributed to the Truth is indeed musk whose fragrance is diffused, yet none can detect it save those who turn to the All-Merciful with radiant countenance.   BH03185

captivate hearts with the holy fragrances   AB03386

and serve as channels through which the divine fragrances are spread  ABU3720

and to attain a temperament like unto the rose in the garden, making fragrance to the world  AB10795

until thou mayest be confirmed to diffuse the fragrance of holiness in those climes and regions  AB08987

became the cause of thy life and suffered thee to inhale the fragrances of the rose-garden of the Holy Spirit.  AB08232

I hope you will conduct yourselves in such a way as to spread the divine fragrances and promote sanctification and the love of God.  ABU0738

these children...will develop natures like unto the sweet airs that blow across the gardens of the All-Glorious, and will waft their fragrance around the world.   AB07264

May each become a brilliant lamp and reach maturity...so that the holy fragrances may perfume the East and West, and the lights of the love of God may illuminate the North and South.  AB01271

that through thee the fragrance of the All-Merciful may be diffused throughout the East and West of the earth, and that thy mention may be spread in the Supreme Concourse and the most glorious Kingdom   AB05458

I hope that thou wilt appear like sweet basil by the stream of divine knowledge, manifesting the utmost freshness and grace, diffusing the fragrance of the All-Merciful, and scattering musk-laden perfumes.  AB10132

May they thus perfume the nostrils of all humanity with the sweet fragrances of the divine gardens, and in their conduct and behavior teach heavenly characteristics to both rulers and subjects. May they search after truth and seek the attractive countenance of the Beauty of Unity. May they turn their faces toward God and walk in His path, that each may become an educator of the human world and conduct themselves in such a way as to cause the life of the world of humanity and breathe spirit into dead bones.  AB00297



I want the loved ones of the Blessed Beauty to be bright like this star.   ABU3467

thy face is cheerfully beaming and thy countenance is shining and gleaming  AB05054

from your nature and character will be diffused the fragrance of loving-kindness  AB09596

They are the flowers of the garden of ABHA-they must breathe forth their fragrance!  ABU1523

The fragrance of the love of God wafts from the gardens of their hearts to all regions   AB05273

The Sun of the Kingdom hath shed a light on thee, so thy likeness is made radiant and thy face happy.   AB07576

Be ye signs of His all subduing proof, symbols of His lasting mercy and expressions of His perfect bounty.   AB06328

a Baha'i is one who, like a candle, illumines and casts the light of sanctity and detachment upon East and West  AB10600

If thou dost act according to the commandments and exhortations of God, know thou for a certainty that the luminosity of thy face will day by day increase.  AB08145

Appear amongst men with the light of God and His radiance, that from your faces may be witnessed the brightness of your Lord, the Most Merciful, the Compassionate.  BH05172

The Blessed Beauty often remarked: 'There are four qualities which I love to see manifested in people: first, enthusiasm and courage; second, a face wreathed in smiles and a radiant countenance  ABU3292

When the light of the love of God shines upon a face, the countenance attains the utmost grace and beauty.  AB06721

I hope that the light of the manifest Truth may so shine forth from thy countenance that the blessed verse In their faces shalt thou see the brightness of bliss may become clear and evident.  AB09504

If thou findest one on whose countenance thou beholdest the radiance of the All-Merciful, inform him of what hath appeared in creation, that he may turn with a luminous face toward the Dayspring of the Dawn.  BH05166

Say: O My loved ones! Be ye of such a nature that the people of creation may inhale from you the sweet fragrances of your Lord, the Most High, the All-Glorious, that your sanctification of His Cause may be made manifest among those who are veiled.  BH02364

That the faces of the Believers shall be like sunshine, like the open rose, so that every one entering the meeting will recognize the light which they possess. It will be like a man entering a garden, and though he may have a cold and so be unable to inhale the perfume, yet he can see the full beauty and the freshness of the flowers.  ABU1767

In whichever city you enter, be ye like bright lamps and shed your rays to all around; - so that whosoever sees your deeds, your words, your behaviours and conducts, he may exclaim:- this person is not of this world; this soul is not human but divine; this person is the sincere servant of the Blessed Perfection; he is radiant, spiritual, heavenly and the means of the prosperity of the world of humanity.  ABU0804

Blessed are they from whose countenances radiate the All-Merciful splendor and the lights of the Divine Word.  BH10017

For spiritual beauty and grace are reflected in the brightness of the All-Merciful, and this is evident upon thy brow.   AB05602

If you have the perceptive power, as soon as you look in the faces of the people, you can observe what ideas are reigning in their hearts. ...you find their reflections in the faces, because they are lodged in the hearts.  ABU2004

These souls are Baha'is, they are divine, they are luminous, they are of the All-Merciful. They cast no shadow, but are rather light from head to foot.  AB04292

He was a man amazing to behold, his face so luminous that even those who were not believers used to say that a heavenly light shone from his forehead.  AB00002

The luminous countenance hath no need of ornament.   BH07082

Praise be to God that the light of certitude is manifest and evident upon your countenance, and the radiance of the favors of the Sun of Truth is visible and apparent in your faces.  AB09362

Ye are the flowers of this Garden - it behooveth you that all should perceive from you the fragrance of the All-Merciful. Act ye in a manner befitting this glorious and exalted station.   BH06737

Now too there exists great capacity, but it requires intense effort so that the friends may engage in the Great Glad-Tidings with utmost joy and delight and perfume the senses of the seekers with the fragrance of the divine Joseph's garment.  AB05607

strive as much as you can to walk the path of divine good-pleasure and become renowned among your peers for a character and disposition from which you may inhale the fragrance of the rose-garden of the Beloved   AB04106

Conduct thyself with justice and act in such wise that thy deeds may reveal the sanctity of the Cause. Adorn thyself with so praiseworthy a character, that by it the fragrance of purity may be wafted over all men.  BH05978

You are radiant, charming, beautiful and glorious, for the light of the love of God shines from your brow like a manifest light. This is true beauty and grace, for "in their faces beameth the brightness of bliss."  AB08773

The perfumed essence of the human flower is the divine fragrance. If this musk-laden perfume is diffused from the human flower, that flower will bloom in the garden of all humanity and that bud will become laughing in the all-glorious Paradise.  AB09450

There are some souls whose spiritual constitutions are so etherealized that although they live in this world yet they belong to another realm. They breath another air, they speak another language and walk on another plane. If one associate and converse with them for one moment, he will never forget them.  ABU0959

Become embodied light and personified spirit, that ye may be the cause of life to humankind and the glory of stone and tree and clay - meaning that wherever ye enter, that place may become blessed, and every garden ye enter may be filled with bounty, and every gathering ye attend may be a source of felicitation.  AB05881

The love of the Abha Beauty perfumes the senses like musk and ambergris - it cannot be mistaken. Consider what a sweet fragrance you perceived from those divine friends. Can such holy fragrances be perceived from other directions? No, by God! The matter is evident and manifest, and the truth is clear and present.   AB02237

The spirits are attracted to the loved ones, tongues are speaking in remembrance of the dear ones, and the cups of hearts are overflowing with the wine of love for those friends who have inhaled the fragrance from the garment of the divine Joseph, who rejoiced at the coming of the bearer of glad tidings, and upon whose faces the garment was cast, whereupon they regained their sight. Verily, they are among the Concourse on High, and their faces shall shine in the Most Exalted Kingdom.  AB06509

The Egyptian messenger brought back with him the garment of the Canaanite Joseph, but thou art the bearer of the garment of the sovereign Lord of love's dominion. However, the keen nose and acute senses of Jacob are needed if the fragrance of this divine Joseph is to be inhaled.   AB06611

They must mingle with the people of the world with truthfulness, love, sincerity and kindness, creating enthusiasm and rapture, diffusing sweet fragrance and pouring forth refined sugar.  AB00422
