Seek always to prove mysteries in the light of the rational mind.  ABU0766

Strive night and day to become informed of traditional and rational proofs, to memorize verses and traditions, and to demonstrate the appearance of the Most Great Name through conclusive proofs, clear evidence and manifest arguments.  AB05064

demonstrate the validity of the Cause with logical proofs, intellectual evidences and spiritual arguments   ABU3075

Sometimes demonstrate through verbal proofs and arguments, and sometimes inscribe through written evidence the manifest light  AB06577

The wise define human reason as the ability to discover the unknown, by means of a sequence of major and minor premises of known facts, leading to the discovery of intelligible universal truths.  AB12758

Whatever one hears must be tested against divine reason and science - if science and reason accept it, it is truth. But if universal science and true reason do not confirm it in any way, it is ignorance.  ABU0532

When intelligent and learned people see these imitations and customs as being contrary to reason and knowledge they forsake the divine religion and are not aware that these are idle fancies of the leaders and have nothing to do with divine principles.  ABU1366

They say that had there been a spiritual world they would have sensed it. But, as a matter of fact, inability to sense a thing is not a proof of the nonexistence of that thing. If inability to sense constitutes proof of perfection, the cow must be the greatest philosopher, for she does not realize anything beyond the animal world.   ABU3156

These are theoretical arguments adduced for weak souls; but if the eye of inner vision be opened, a hundred thousand clear proofs will be seen. Thus, when man feels the indwelling spirit he is in no need of arguments for its existence; but for those who are deprived of the grace of the spirit it is necessary to set forth external arguments.   AB00815

Even Plato at first proved through rational arguments the immobility of the earth and the movement of the sun, and then subsequently established, again through rational arguments, the centrality of the sun and the movement of the earth. Thus have the mathematicians disagreed among themselves, even though they all relied on rational arguments.  AB00520

apply thyself to rational and authoritative arguments. For arguments are a guide to the path and by this the heart will be turned unto the Sun of Truth. And when the heart is turned unto the Sun, then the eye will be opened and will recognize the Sun through the Sun itself. Then man will be in no need of arguments (or proofs), for the Sun is altogether independent  AB08143

Finally, with utmost courtesy, it was stated thus: "O philosophers and professors, I wish to say one thing-do not be offended. If you will not be offended, I shall speak." They said, "Speak, we shall not be offended." It was then stated that the criterion of the senses is the measure of understanding for animals. For instance, a cow considers whatever is perceptible to be definitive, and is utterly unaware of invisible, intelligible realities.   AB00166

Science does not know; but the Manifestation makes discoveries with the power of the Spirit. For instance: a philosopher with induction finds out a way. But the prophet discerns with sight. A blind man has to find his way with a stick from point to point; so a philosopher through arguments from premises goes to conclusions, and not by sight. But the Manifestations see with their inner eye (own eye); they do not go from premises to conclusions."   ABU0326

Therefore, make use of intelligence and reason so that you may dispel these dense clouds from the horizon of human hearts and all hold to the one reality of all the Prophets. It is most certain that if human souls exercise their respective reason and intelligence upon the divine questions, the power of God will dispel every difficulty, and the eternal realities will appear as one light, one truth, one love, one God and a peace that is universal.   ABU0733

If we were to deny all that is not accessible to the senses, then we would be forced to deny realities which undoubtedly exist. For example, the ether is not sensible, although its reality can be proven. The power of gravity is not sensible, although its existence is likewise undeniable. Whence do we affirm their existence? From their signs. For instance, this light consists in the vibrations of the ether, and from these vibrations we infer its existence.  AB00057

All true concepts must correspond with science and reason. Thoughts proved to be correct by these standards are reality. But mere conception without decisive proof is like a wave in the ocean of imagination. The sea of thought has its waves every hour, and imaginings are like these waves -- from one side they come, to another they go, and pass away. But one who presents proofs, decisive arguments and conclusive evidence -- evidence that is permanent and lasting -- sets forth reality.   ABU0590

I said the third criterion is the criterion of reason - whatever man wishes to comprehend, he comprehends through his sound reason. Now which of these three criteria do you consider best? All unanimously declared that the criterion of the senses is the best of criteria, saying we will not accept anything until we sense it. I said, Do not be offended if I prove that the criterion of the senses is wrong. They said, No, please proceed. I said human beings' best sense is eyesight, and it errs and sees wrongly. For instance, when a ship is moving, the eye sees the shores moving. I asked, Do you consider the earth stationary and the planets moving, or vice versa? They said, Vice versa. I said, The eye sees the earth as stationary and the planets as moving.  ABU0888

But the theologians respond that this is neither impossible nor inadmissible, though unprecedented. For there is a difference between something impossible and something unprecedented. For example, in former times, instantaneous communication between East and West through telegraph was unprecedented but not impossible; photography was unprecedented but not impossible; the phonograph was unprecedented but not impossible. The materialists insist on their position. The theologians ask in response: Is this earth eternal or was it created? The materialists reply that according to science and complete discoveries, it is proven that it was created - initially a fiery globe that gradually cooled and formed a crust. Then above the crust, plants came into being, then animals appeared, then humans came to exist.  AB00920

"Among the wise men of the East, the sensible is not considered the definite criterion. We investigate reality. Let us see if the sensible is truly a definite criterion? Among the senses, sight is the most powerful, yet we see that sight can err. For instance, sight sees a mirage as water when it is not so. Sight sees images in mirrors as real, and if someone had never seen a mirror, they would think the images were real. For example, when one is on a ship, the shores appear to move when they do not. The point of light - that is, if you swing a fiery ember at night, a circle appears when no circle exists. And what is your belief about whether the earth moves or the sun?" They said: "The earth moves and the sun is always stationary." Yet sight indicates that all the stars and the sun move while the earth is still. So when we see that sight can err in this way, how can we make it the criterion for measuring the reality of things? Rather, the criterion is sound reason, universal intellect, perfect understanding. Sight says the images in mirrors exist, but reason says no. Sight says this star moves and the earth is still, but reason says no."  ABU0593
