
"In My Father's House are many mansions -- many, many worlds!"  ABU3526

"No, I am tired of going about looking at the things of this world. I want to go above and travel and see in the spiritual worlds. What do you think about that?" The old watchman looked somewhat puzzled and scratched his head. Abdu'l-Baha then pursued: "Which would you rather posses, the material or the spiritual world?" The watchman answered seriously: "Well, I guess the material; you know you have that one anyway." "But," continued Abdu'l-Baha, "you do not lose it when you attain the spiritual. When you go upstairs in a house you do not leave the house. The lower floor is under you." ABU3047

The mortal world is Thy revelation, the Divine World Thy manifestation, The Highest Heaven Thy presence, O heavenly Pearl.  BH03242

Now the greatest doubt of the deniers is this: where is that world? And everything which has no concrete external existence is mere imagination. However, the world of existence is one world, but it becomes manifold in relation to diverse realities. For example, the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds are one world, but the animal world in relation to the vegetable world is a spiritual reality and another realm, another condition.  AB00188

The divine worlds are infinite. One world among the worlds of God is this elemental world, which is but a sign of other worlds. But those of limited vision, lacking spiritual insight, imagine that existence is confined to the material realm and thus become veiled from the worlds of God by earthly conditions.  The Most Glorious Horizon and Supreme Kingdom refer to the divine world and heavenly realm, the seat of spiritual sovereignty and the joy of the loved ones of the All-Merciful. The Ancient Beauty and Most Great Name (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) was established upon the throne of that world of reality before His dawning on the horizon of contingency and after His setting, and remains so now, for His sacred Reality has no rising or setting, no manifestation or concealment, no beginning or end. He has ever been, and will ever be, in the heights of sanctity. These stages relate to His dawning in His honored Temple, not to His Essence and Reality. AB00765

Likewise, in the realm of truth, past, present, and future are the same, and future events are even as past and present occurrences. From the perspective of that realm, all events and incidents take place in the present and are witnessed by the Prophets and the chosen ones. And so it is that the Prophets herald events that will transpire two or three thousand years hence, for they abide in the realm of truth, wherein the mysteries of the universe are revealed and laid bare.  AB00689

Whatever we might say or write will remain unsaid, for speech is but the fruit of comprehension, and comprehension itself beareth witness to its own impotence. The pinions of those nigh unto God, despite all their ardor and ecstasy, their attraction and rapture, are debarred from this atmosphere, and the wings of men are bound and fettered. No thought or knowledge or intelligence can traverse beyond heaven and earth - all that exists lieth between these twain. Yet the guardians of the pavilion of grandeur and the sentinels of the sanctuaries of the Kingdom exist above a hundred thousand visible worlds. This heaven, compared to that heaven, is as the earth before this heaven - nay, I seek God's forgiveness from every limitation and delimitation. The fettered wing knoweth not how to soar, and wings besmeared with clay cannot transcend their bounds.   BH01096

"Ignorant people imagine this to be the only world of existence, but there are many, very, very many worlds of existence, many more than we can see."   ABU3370

to become cognizant of the worlds of God, because the divine worlds are infinite   ABU1630

The 'Spiritual Words' are the ethical and moral Teachings of the Manifestations of God. They are unchangeable and unalterable. The spirit behind these words is the spirit of God and therefore eternal.   ABU1390

At times you will traverse the realm of the material world, at times you will journey through the Kingdom  AB04686

Were We to say it is the sun, this would be true by virtue of My being, for it hath dawned from this praiseworthy horizon. And were We to say it is the heaven, this too would be true, for it hath been adorned with brilliant stars and luminous planets formed of the words of thy Lord, Who in the heaven of eternity was called the Ancient Truth, and in the realm of the cloud the Most High, the Most Great, and in the kingdom of names the Everlasting God, and then by this Name in the world of creation - the Name whereby the dwellers of earth and heaven were seized with trembling, save whom thy Lord, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved, did will.  BH04484


Ascend, O people, unto My Kingdom which perisheth not, then behold the lights of your Lord's countenance which fade not away.   BH04852

However much the contingent world is a soul-stirring ocean, it is but an insignificant drop from the realms of the Placeless.   AB10761

Those who lack wisdom think that the worlds of God are limited to the material universe. They deny that there are spiritual realms.  ABU0563

You well know that the realm of earthly existence is confined and restricted, and that the birds of the Kingdom have clipped wings therein.  AB10193

Regard this globe. Its divisions are mineral, vegetable and animal. Man is the result of all these; therefore man is the sum of all existence here.  ABU1155

"For they have hastened from the world of darkness to the world of light, and pitched their tent in the precincts of the Throne of the All-Merciful."  AB06387

God has given us wings whereby we may soar toward the immensity of space wherein we find the radiant worlds of abstraction, beatitude and certainty.   ABU1998

For things have three ranks: the rank of eternity (sarmad), which is the station of action... the rank of perpetuity (dahr)... and the rank of time (zaman)   BB00383

If such is what will take place in this visible world, then imagine what it will be in the spiritual realms of God, so exalted above the comprehension of all beings.   AB06523

For all the infinite stars are material bodies and the realm in which the spirit doth exist is the Spiritual World and the Heavenly Kingdom which is eternal and everlasting.   AB05474

The worlds of GOD are sanctified from place and limitation. They are the worlds of the divine attributes and qualities, such as the world of love, faith, purity, knowledge, etc.   ABU1470

Those who dwell in the precincts of the Divine Essence, then those within the veil of the Kingdom, then those in the atmosphere of the Realm of Might, then those in the earthly realm  BH01636

this is the Beauty of God in the human realm of beginning, and the Manifestation of God in the heavenly kingdom on high, and the Concealment of God in the realm of might and immortality   BH08102

a single letter of which cannot be equaled by all that hath been created in the realm of Lahut, then in the realm of Jabarut, then in the realm of Malakut, then in the heavens and earths  BH01904

This exalted Word has manifested from the world of the Divine Will to the world of Divine Purpose, and from Purpose to the realm of Lahut, and from Lahut to Jabarut, and from Jabarut to Malakut   BH00485

The greatest power in the realm and range of human existence is spirit -- the divine breath which animates and pervades all things. It is manifested throughout creation in different degrees or kingdoms.  ABU0262

Praise be to God Who hath created the heavens and the earth in truth, layer upon layer, that mankind might know that their Lord, the All-Merciful, is verily the Truth, and that God hath power over all things.  BB00002

As to thy question concerning the worlds of God. Know thou of a truth that the worlds of God are countless in their number, and infinite in their range. None can reckon or comprehend them except God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH00354

This is the matrix world for the soul, even as the womb was the matrix world for the body or vehicle. Birth into consciousness of another world begins here, a world for which this physical and material one is but the preparation and foundation.  ABU3236

The contingent world is in two great divisions—the physical and the mental. The material or physical world or the "world of sense" is comprehended through the five senses, but the intellectual world is comprehended through the instrumentality of knowledge.   ABU0569

Know then that God possesseth invisible realms which mortal thoughts cannot hope to grasp nor human minds conceive. When thou purifiest thy spiritual sense from every earthly moisture, the holy fragrances from the divine gardens of those realms will reach thy nostrils.   AB00282

The description of each subsequent world describes the nature of the world before it unto the end of its station. Therefore it is related in the tradition that the ant claims for God two lordships, and that description which is in everything is God's lordship over it thereby.  BB00098

Seek the effects of this heavenly sustenance in the realm of the Kingdom, and search for the outpourings of this divine reality in the desert of the invisible Lahut, for this dustheap is a place of latency, not manifestation, and a station of weakness, not of perceiving the results of things.  AB09535


The inhabitants of the realms of My eternity, the dwellers of the cities of My immortality, and the companions of the depths of My grandeur yearn to meet this servant, and around him circle the Houris of the chambers of My paradise and the chaste maidens of My garden of paradise and good-pleasure   BH03305

The spirit radiates in all the realms of nature according to the receptive degree. In the mineral world the spirit shows itself, but limited to that mineral condition. It is proved through science that the mineral has the power of attraction, the vegetable has the power of growth; life is according to capacity.  ABU0819

Not on the earthly planet does this development and purification of the imperfectly matured souls take place, but in the uncounted spiritual worlds of God; also not out of own endeavor and tiring penance, but in the creative light, in the purifying mercy and the purifying bounty of God, the Eternal, Almighty, and All-kind.  ABU0017

You ask about the soul and its multiple stations. People have concluded that it is a single reality which multiplies according to ranks and stations, for it progresses from the lower realm to the higher realm - like the progression of the mineral from the realm of solidity to the realm of growth, and the progression of the plant from the realm of growth to the realm of sensation. When it reaches the human realm it becomes determined and individualized with complete determinations. And when it is baptized by the Holy Spirit, it attains eternal life.  This matter is correct, but what is meant by spirit is existence and life, for existence has a single concept that is not multiple. Existence has ranks, and in each rank it has determination, individuation and special capacity. For example, the mineral, plant, animal and human realms are all in the realm of existence, and none of these realities is deprived of that concept. However, existence has manifestation, emergence and conditions in each of these ranks. In the mineral rank it has a special determination distinguishing it from other determinations and individuations. Then in the plant world it has conditions and manifestation specific to the plant realm, with its own determination and individuation. Then in the animal rank it has conditions, perfections, determination and individuation specific to it alone. And in the human rank, existence has manifestation, radiance and appearance with the greatest power conceivable in the world of thoughts.  AB00709


The luminous bodies are of three kinds: among them are those whose light is derived from another, like the planets revolving around the sun; and among them are those whose light is other than their body and whose body is other than their light, but the body necessitates and entails it, and since there is otherness between them, separation from light is conceivable, like the sun and the fixed stars; and among them is light itself   AB00814

Bear thou witness that food hath diverse stations, yet We shall suffice thee with four of these. Among them is the station of the Throne of Hahut, the Paradise of Oneness...Among them is the station of the Paradise of Eternality, the Throne of Lahut, the Light of the White Land...Among them is the Paradise of Oneness, the Yellow Land, the Ocean of Might...Among them is the station of the Paradise of Justice, the Green Land, the Deep of the Kingdom.  BH00267

Man may be said to have three natures: The first is sunk in darkness and here he is a prisoner to his desires for here he is co-possessor of the same qualities as the animals. The second nature might be called his human nature and in this human nature is the home of the mind and the soul. The third is his likeness to God and this he possesses in proportion to the divine qualities he imparts, the breeze of the holy spirit, pure spiritually, luminosity.   ABU0302

Existence is of two kinds: one is the existence of God which is beyond the comprehension of man. He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes. He, the Ancient, hath had no beginning and is the all-independent. The second kind of existence is the human existence. It is a common existence, comprehensible to the human mind, is not ancient, is dependent and hath a cause to it.  AB01382

The world of existence is one world, but with different ranks. For example, the mineral existence has its rank, but the mineral being has no knowledge of the plant world - it is completely unaware, rather according to its condition denies it. Similarly, the plant being has no knowledge of the animal world - it is completely heedless and unaware, for the animal rank is above the plant rank, and the plant according to its condition is veiled from and denies the animal world, even though animal, plant and mineral all exist in the world of existence.  AB00409


Man has three aspects. These have been interpreted according to former terminology as three molds. One is the animal mold, which is also known as the reality of darkness, -- that is, a reality emanating from the world of nature, -- and in that reality man has faculties and powers in common with the animal. The second mold is the human reality, sometimes termed the astral reality. It is the mold between darkness and light, in which the soul is able to choose whether it will acquire all the virtues or remain subject to all vices. The third mold is the spiritual reality, which is light itself.  ABU0045

The world of existence has two estates: the one is the Unconditioned, the Absolute, the Divine; the other is that of submission to God. The one is the estate of God, the other of created beings. That is to say, when we speak of God or Truth, we mean that which is endowed with the highest perfection, and when we speak of the created world, we mean that which is subject to utter imperfection. The one is eternal, the other temporal. The one is rich, the other poor. The one is powerful, the other impotent. The one is all-knowing, the other plunged in ignorance. The one is wholly pure, the other swayed by desire.  ABU0565

Man is possessed of three realities: first, the animal reality; second, the human reality; third, the reality of the Kingdom. The animal reality can only conceive of the animal world and this is, according to terminology, the animal mold. The second reality is the human reality, which constitutes intellectual perception and the capacity of conceiving every image freely present, the capacity to attain to the image of the Kingdom, and acquires the capacity to present simply the image of the animal. This may be termed the human mold. As to the third reality, which is the reality of the Kingdom, that is the reality representing the image and likeness of God, which is entitled the body of the Kingdom and is sometimes called the astral mold or body.  ABU0021

