He whom I protected by My sovereignty denied Me.   BH09552

like Mirza Yahya, taking many wives and satisfying their lusts and desires.  ABU2972

O God, my God, I ask Thee by Thy name whereby Thou didst protect...Baha from Yahya   BH08672

Reference to Mirza Yahya's followers in Kerman holding onto false accounts against Baha'u'llah   AB04167

In Baghdad, and due to Yahya's words and deeds, he completely turned away from the Cause of God.   ABU1260

From the evidence, they are Yahyais, meaning followers of the Enemy of God, but they practice deception.   AB03122

The misguiding guide [Mirza Yahya] repeatedly denounced the Exalted One from pulpits in Isfahan. Now he should at least feel shame and no longer mention the name of His Cause. Despite this audacity and wretchedness he considers himself the greater idol after the greatest idol. Therefore take heed, O people of insight.  AB00542

During this counseling, Mirza Yahya made him self-centered and a change occurred in him. In his final days, his audacity had reached such a degree that he declared in the presence of the Blessed Beauty that even if the Bab had been in his place, He would not have endured it.   ABU1358

Yahya is in Cyprus and his son, Ridvan-'Ali, has joined a [Christian] church. His other son, Ahmad, has become Protestant. His other children are all immersed in troubled-waters of their own and have become a cause of embarrassment. It is good for you to go and witness the misfortune and remorse that is their lot. Even though a government such as the British, with all its might, is supporting him, yet he wallows in the depth of misery.   ABU1674

Outwardly, We had a brother who lived for several years under the wing of mercy in perfect comfort and ease. Then, at the instigation of a certain soul, he rose up against the Wronged One of the horizons. When the hidden secrets of the breast and the treachery of the eye became manifest, this Wronged One departed from their midst, leaving him with his children, infants, and wives in perfect health and safety in a secure and protected place.   BH00251

After the martyrdom of the Bab and the absence of the Desired One, that immoderate one committed a deplorable act that even the renowned zealot of Baghdad found repugnant: following the supreme martyrdom, he married the Bab's widow, the Mother of the Believers, which was explicitly forbidden to all in the Bayan. When this proved unsuitable, he was not satisfied with this degradation, but rather that honored lady, the sister of Mulla Rajab-'Ali and wife of the Bab, was given to Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani. Such was his ambition, power, might and fame that he occupied himself day and night with multiple marriages. He even requested his wife's sister named Ruqiyyih Khanum from Mazandaran and married her too, thus joining two sisters in marriage. He also married the sister of Mirza Nasru'llah-i-Tafrishi, while the mother of Mirza Ahmad was also a legal wife, and he even contracted marriage with an Arab woman, transgressing the explicit text of the Bayan regarding marriage.   AB00050

Furthermore, the followers of Yahya have engaged in slanders that are beyond description. Among other things, they have written numerous reports and detailed letters, both signed and unsigned, to the Chihrihnama newspaper claiming that 'Abdu'l-Baha has sent and continues to send large sums to Tehran to bribe others so that Baha'is might gain membership in parliament and destroy the foundation of Islam and completely eliminate the nation, for they have gained great influence both abroad and within. Among other things, they have written that I sent ten thousand tumans by telegraph to Tehran for this purpose at the beginning of the elections to Haji Ghulam-Rida, and that I continue to send more. But they claim that Haji Ghulam-Rida lost the first ten thousand tumans in one night of gambling, thus falling from favor, after which twice this amount was immediately sent, and that I continue to send money constantly, wanting to accomplish such a momentous matter through the power of bribery.  AB09517


At one time, after the Martyrdom of the Bab, the Cause of God suffered a severe blow through the rebellion of Yahya   ABU2431

the oppressor became oppressed, the oppressed became oppressor. Yahya [...] committed treachery against the purity of the Point   BH09292

Through various whisperings and intrigues he prevented people from the Lord of mankind, and through previous delusions led some astray.  BH00399

"among all parties, the Baha'i party was right and other parties were wrong, especially the shameless party that caused the ruin of Iran"   AB00897

For example, one of those tests was the rebellion of Mirza Yahya. The world will not witness another Mirza Yahya rising against the Cause.   ABU1265

Therefore did We cast him from the heaven of Command unto the earth of his self and made him a warning unto every discerning one who seeth.   BH01940

"since the great aunt had connections to Yahya, solely to please him she strove until she gave that poor one to the son of the Prime Minister"  AB01702

I swear by the Sun of inner meanings that even what they have heard about Mirza Yahya had no connection with him, and God is sufficient witness   BH02840

if her lack of love stems from love for Yahya, God and all in the heavens and earth bear witness that you had and have no knowledge of his cause   BH02334

Now is the time to turn attention to the Yahya'i group. Dedicate all your time to them, perhaps they will turn to the direction of divine bestowal   AB00496

And afterwards for six months he wrote petitions to everyone and cried out for a stipend until they sold the Beauty of Unity for a counted number of dirhams.  BH04610

Now they have gathered in Iraq and at this moment they plot. Soon the winds of associating partners with God shall spread from the quarter of their hearts to all regions.   BH02516

After a year, Yahya the unrestrained turned towards Nur. In a short time he caused wavering and disturbance... He even induced some people to beat the late Mirza Khudavirdi.   AB00432

O Arabs! He who was powerless to speak in My presence hath now risen up to slay Me, after We created him and reared him and taught him and protected him for months and years.   BH00610

And concerning what thou hast written, that the Bab confirmed Mirza Yahya - firstly, thou art not acquainted with that confirmation, what its purpose was and what was intended.  BH00004

While in Edirne, at a time when Mirza Aqa Jan had raised the standard of rebellion and enmity and had spoken most presumptuously in Baha'u'llah's presence, I rebuked him one day.   ABU0595

The enmity of these souls toward the Baha'is has become famous throughout the horizons and its fame has reached the seven layers. In any case, Jamal al-Din and these persons joined hands.   AB00382

Account of Mirza Yahya's erratic behavior, fear and deception during the departure from Baghdad, including his requests to travel separately and pretending not to know others when encountered.  ABU0642

When the Cause was made manifest and the Temple of the Remembrance was established upon the throne of independence, he whom We had nurtured and taught, morning and evening, rose up against Me.   BH01479

Yahya, despite keeping himself constantly hidden and meeting with no one, would become uncontrollable when matters concerning women arose. [...] Yahya incited others and they strangled Abu'l-Qasim.  ABU1501

When my call was raised, the first servant who sought to shed my blood was my brother, whom I had nurtured over successive years and protected beneath the wing of my favor through the nights and days   BH02543

This wronged one's sister was not with Us in this Cause and never saw Yahya during the days of this Wronged One's manifestation. Nevertheless, she has clung to such calumnies as no ear has ever heard.   BH03290

Make people understand that Sadru'l-Ulama is one of his companions and is an Azali, and the son of Sadru'l-Ulama is a pure Azali. This silence of yours has caused their audacity. The Azalis arranged this Najaf issue.  AB11639

exactly like the actions and behavior of Mirza Yahya who sent Siyyid Muhammad to the Iranian ambassador in Istanbul and created those corruptions. Now the Covenant-breakers are also following that same pattern exactly.  AB00621

He wrote tablets and sent them in all directions, attributing to this servant that which he himself had done, for he is confident that the ignorant masses of the earth will accept as true and established whatever he says   BH01990

Many of those who followed Muhammad-'Ali are coming back. After the departure of Baha'u'llah all the beautiful blossoms upon the Tree of Life were destroyed by Muhammad-'Ali and must now be grown again by the Love of 'Abdu'l-Baha.  ABU0433

Mohammed Ali had a great opportunity given him, but through his ambitions he became false and lost it. Baha 'Ollah knew long before the Kitab el Adh was written that Mohammed Ali was intriguing for power and material worldly influence.   ABU0340

At the time that Baha'u'llah was in Baghdad, Mirza Yahya being afraid of his life, was seldom seen amongst the people. He had changed his clothes and was in seclusion. Nobody could find him but the Blessed Perfection was in evidence all the time.  ABU0775

Would that thou wouldst turn unto the words of him who warred against God and ponder that which floweth from his pen. But after the Ancient Beauty avoided meeting with him, perchance thou mayest discover the truth of his affair and be of them that know.  BH00711

By God, I am ashamed to mention to you what my brother did - he whom we taught and protected for twenty years. Surely by now news of him has reached those parts. Whoever looks upon his words with the eye of God will recognize him and be among those who know.   BH04096

Say: Remember ye the Day of Mubahalih in the Land of Mystery, when the Dawning Place of Inspiration came forth from the precincts of the House, directing His steps toward the House of God, the Lord of all men. We arrived therein while no one else entered it.   BH01288

The Yamutis openly renounce Yahya while secretly employing such intrigues, and whoever becomes disgruntled due to their aims not being supported immediately joins their ranks. Pay careful attention to this. Do not let these ones gain a foothold among the Baha'is.  AB10920

By God the Truth! He would stand before Us while We recited the verses to him, and he would write them down morning and evening. But when he uttered a word of his own he grew proud against God and desired what he desired with a tyranny that was in the Tablet mighty.  BH02859

These three constantly complained of the hardships and bothered and troubled the believers. At least Mirza Yahya and Haji Siyyid Muhammad of Isfahan appeared morbid and sullen without complaining openly to others; they only seemed dissatisfied and lost in melancholy.   ABU0777

Be not disturbed by the tumult of the followers of Yahya and others. These matters are like the foam of the sea - they come and go. However, it is not appropriate for the followers of Yahya to be present in your gatherings, for they have no purpose save casting doubts.   AB00492

The text describes Mirza Yahya's betrayal: "One who had been nurtured from the beginning in the embrace of His loving-kindness...rose up with utmost hatred and, like a host of calamities, attacked. He intended to shed His pure blood and like a serpent bit that sacred form."  AB00356

Know thou that he whom We strengthened, protected and taught, when the breezes of might wafted and he felt secure in himself, rose up like a serpent against the Beauty of the All-Merciful. Thus hath the matter transpired against this Youth Who languisheth imprisoned in this prison  BH02005

Observe the copies of books and treatises by Mirza Yahya in the public library in London that exist in his own handwriting and the handwriting of his son, and show them to Taqizadeh so that he may know what an amazingly learned, eloquent and articulate person is promoting nonsense.   AB05331

He wrote seven letters to seven martyrs, requesting from each a virgin, and when his purpose was not achieved, he grew bold and impudent, laying hands on the chaste Mother of the Believers, taking as wife the second consort of the Exalted One despite the explicit prohibition in the Book  AB02514

However, after the martyrdom of the Exalted One - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - and the journey of the Blessed Beauty from Iraq to Kurdistan, and the hiding of Yahya in the corner of forgetfulness, the Cause of God became entirely extinguished in all regions, including Adhirbayjan.  AB05607

Were We to mention unto thee what befell Us from him whose mention We had exalted in those days, thou wouldst surely lament and weep within thyself, nay thou wouldst detach thyself from all things and flee unto the summits of lofty mountains. Would that he had been content with what he did!   BH01940

Never in the Bayan was there mention of successorship or vicegerency. According to you these are the words of the people of the Furqan. What was mentioned in the Bayan was the mention of Letters and Mirrors, and in all instances He declareth that the Mirrors were not and will not be limited.  BH00004

Mirza Yahya spent most of his time selling shoes in Suq al-Shuyukh, Basra and around Najaf. He dared not associate with any of the believers or let anyone know of his whereabouts. Sometimes you would suddenly see he had come from Najaf and taken a house in the Arab quarter near Bab al-Hilla.  ABU0576

As He clearly says with reference to Mohammad Ali, if for one moment he will turn aside from the Shadow of the Command he is cut off; and Mohammad Ali's name and title is clearly stated in the verse of the Blessed Perfection. Muhammad Ali himself acknowledged and admits this definite verse.   AB00702

I swear by the Sun of the morn of holy transcendence that what he has mentioned is pure falsehood and he had no purpose except to cast hatred of this servant into hearts... Although every person of insight perceives that all he has written about this servant has been and will be pure lies and calumny  BH02139

When Nabil discovered that the flame which had once been kindled and tended there was almost out, that the believers were few, that Yahya had crawled into a secret hole where he lay torpid and inert, and that a wintry cold had taken over--he found himself obliged to leave, bitterly grieving, for Karbila.  AB00002

Yet you write that Mirza Yahya cannot be rejected, while his utmost station was that he would present himself before the Abha Beauty and divine words would be revealed to him. By God! Despite his deeds no one opposed him - he rejected himself through turning away from the Truth Who created through His Word.  BH00004

These people are following their false imaginings. They say that the letter from the Bab to Yahya begins thus: 'From God, the Mighty, the Beloved, to God, the Mighty, the Beloved.' But this passage is also written at the beginning of the letter to Dayyan and to others. What does this have to do with Yahya?   ABU2573

Say: Through My power over the Kingdom and what has been and what will be, if ye be among those who know. I am He Who was powerful over what I willed and shall remain powerful over what I desire. The schemes of the schemers shall never prevent Me from My sovereignty, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Omnipotent.  BH00227

Throughout all days I strove for his protection and honor while he stood ready for my death and harm. And this was not confined to him alone - from every soul to whom the utmost love was shown, there ultimately came to this servant that which came not from any manifestations of negation to the Ancient Beauty.   BH00857

We sheltered the speckled serpent in winter beneath My tent, yet when the sun of summer shone forth it stirred and bit Me for the first time... God knoweth that each month he would flee to some quarter in fear for himself, but when the Cause was exalted he emerged and conspired with one of My servants against Me   BH06237

When they denied me and sought to shed my blood, I denied them and withdrew from them, and in this was I commanded by God, the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Witnessed. And He saith: O people of the Bayan! By God, I denied no one and objected not to any soul, but remained silent within myself and tranquil in my home.  BH01053

But how obstinate was Yahya the Envious, who after the martyrdom of the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), fled out of fear of sacrifice and disguised himself in a dervish cloak, and along the way resorted to begging to protect himself, making like an ant his nest in the hole of obscurity and lethargy.  AB02514

Then We found Our brother standing in a chasm of tyranny and pride. We said: O Yahya! What hath made thee proud before thy Lord, the Most Glorious? Cast aside self and desire, embark with Us, and be not of the idolaters. He said: I have held fast to the idol, and it sufficeth me in place of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH01597

When the appointed time was fulfilled and the Command came forth, We drew aside the veils in Our chosen name and manifested Our Self to all created things with a sovereignty that was witnessed by all worlds. And by this means, he whom We created by Our command and preserved beneath the wings of grace turned against Us   BH03096

When the breezes of assurance wafted, he who had been concealed behind the veil emerged and desired to cut down the Divine Lote-Tree, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. But God prevented him through His sovereignty and banished him through His power, and revealed to those who had migrated what was hidden in his breast.  BH03032

And among My greatest afflictions was when someone came to the gate saying that Yahya had written him words and he wished to come before the Throne that verses of mighty glory might be revealed for him. By God! Through this the hearts of existence were consumed and the Eye of God, the Almighty, the Glorious, the All-Knowing, wept.   BH00596

When the Bab was in grave peril, all eyes were fixed upon Baha'u'llah. Therefore, Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-Karim-i-Qazvini, whom the Bab had designated as Mirza Ahmad, deemed it prudent that measures be taken to ensure Baha'u'llah's protection, and he presented this matter before the Bab. It was then intimated that He should choose one of His brothers. Thus, Yahya was selected and they endeavored to educate him, giving him six pages of writing practice daily until his handwriting became very refined, and Tablets were revealed through him. Should anyone compare the Tablets he wrote then with those he wrote after departing from the blessed shadow of Baha'u'llah, they would perceive this truth.... If he did not know something, he would not say "I don't know" - he would say something.... He was a very clever person - whatever they asked him, he would make up an answer and cite a poem and hadith as evidence. Seven people gathered and said it's not possible that he knows everything, so each of us should say one word, put them together and ask him the meaning of that word. The word turned out to be "khunfishar". They asked him about it. He said this is a greasy plant that grows green in the mountains, and gave an explanation saying "as the poet said: I have lost your love in my heart, as milk has lost the khunfishar," and "as the Prophet said." They said "Stop, that's enough." ABU0597

In this latter city the rebellion of Mirza Yahya reached its height and his envy became virulent and a complete rapture became unavoidable. No tongue can adequately describe the troubles that he caused for the Blessed Beauty. He sent Sayad Mohamad to Constantinople with a long petition of complaints addressed to the Persian Ambassador.  ABU0564

One moment he would cry out "O what a living!" and the next breath he would cry "O what a reading!" Sometimes he would lavish the worthless treasures of the world upon worldly people so they would become the cause of persecution and cruelty, and sometimes he would present gifts to shameless spies so they would create sedition and corruption   AB02707

We were dismayed by his deceitfulness--nay, bewildered were all things visible and invisible. Nor did he find respite from what he harboured in his bosom until he had committed that which no pen dare describe, and by which he disgraced the dignity of My station and profaned the sanctity of God, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the All-Praised.  BH00007

Verily I was cognizant of what was within his soul from former times, yet We concealed it lest it cause the feet of the deluded ones to stumble. When that which was manifest appeared from him, I commanded that the people be informed, that their faith might be preserved and their deeds not be rendered vain, lest they be numbered among the losers.   BH00376

He had a brother who protected Him for a number of years and taught Him a letter from the Tablet of the Command. Through this he grew proud before God Who had created him by the word of His command, and became one of the transgressors. The names so deluded him that he sought to slay his Brother without any proof from God or any enlightening Book.   BH07285

When we heard, he (Yahya) arose with a new scheme, in order to sow doubts in the hearts of the servants. Yes, in Edirne he advertised his intention to the Iranians, saying, "Today we have resolved that he shall come to the Sultan Selim mosque, and we also shall attend, and shall make the truth manifest. Thus might truth be distinguished from falsehood."  BH03710

Once in a gathering in Tihran, the British Ambassador had said, "There is One in 'Akka, in the Ottoman prison, Who appears with majesty, splendor and glory. And yet there is another in Cyprus who evinces the utmost incompetence and ineptitude." Regardless, it is good to go and see for yourself. Cyprus is near, not far. See under what conditions he lives.   ABU1674

Furthermore, all friends and strangers, even individual Babis, know that after the martyrdom of the Bab, Mirza Yahya put on a dervish's crown, took up a beggar's bowl, and with a mystic's cloak on his shoulders fled from Mazandaran in this state. He betrayed all the friends while secretly wandering in Mazandaran and Rasht in utmost dissimulation and concealment.   AB00052

We stood firm against the enemies in days wherein the feet of every mighty soul did slip, and We disputed with the peoples with wisdom and counsel until We made manifest the Cause through My being alone, and God is witness to what I say. And verily when My brother felt secure in himself he contended against My Self and disputed My verses, until he arose to slay Me.   BH03096

When news spread of that which the promptings of self had impelled My brother to attempt, and Our companions in exile learned of his nefarious design, the voice of their indignation and grief was lifted up and threatened to spread throughout the city. We forbade, however, such recriminations, and enjoined upon them patience, that they might be of those that endure steadfastly.  BH00007

This incident is exactly like the incident of Yahya, identical in every respect. Yahya thought that mischief would cause harm to the Blessed Beauty. Thus he sent Siyyid Muhammad to the great city and employed all manner of deceit and trickery until he placed the Blessed Beauty in great danger. But when the fire of sedition blazed forth, it immediately consumed Yahya's household   AB01585

Moreover, you surely know the current state of that person of ill repute - even outwardly he is in evident loss. All his children are each in a strange state - one has become Christian, another a devotee in church, one dedicated to the tavern, another serving in an idol temple. Surely these details have reached everyone's ears. If the heedless deny it, let them send a trusted person to witness it.   AB00079

This notorious Mirza Yahya who recently passed away spent forty years in Cyprus and was freed when the British took control of Cyprus. During these forty years in a land of religious freedom, he was unable to guide even one soul. These deluded people now cling to such a worthless person, while Abdul-Baha, who is but one servant among the servants of the Blessed Beauty, has set the East and West in motion.  AB10460

I have been prevented from engaging in remembrance due to what has befallen Me from My brother and those who followed him, despite their having no knowledge thereof - and God is witness to what I say. Indeed, I have become the target of the arrows of his hatred and rancor, and at every moment there comes upon Me that which causes My soul to grieve. None is aware of this save God, your Lord and the Lord of all worlds.   BH10173

they found a means and discovered an intermediary - the notorious Mirza Yahya. The ambassador made this undiscerning person his great instrument and guided him toward corruption. This person imagined that if the Lamp of the Supreme Concourse were removed from the glass of the West, the new Cause and glorious bounty would disappear. Therefore he conspired with the ambassador and created a thousand seditions and troubles  AB00427

Apart from this, verily thy Lord's Cause is more manifest than can be concealed, and God is witness to what I say. Sufficient is their abasement that they worship one whom We named with a name among names and mentioned among the servants, making him a veil before their eyes through Our wisdom, lest they recognize this luminous and noble Manifestation. When he returned unto God [...] He hath waged war against Our Cause by his own self.   BH01315

I said, 'I swear by the Righteousness of God! A day will come when Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí will wish that his fingers had been cut off so that he could not have taken the pen to proclaim his break with the Covenant. For four years, I have concealed this matter so that the beloved of God may not learn of your unfaithfulness to the Covenant. It is now beyond My power to hide it any longer. You have announced it yourselves to the believers.'  ABU3682

Perceiving the covert rebellion of Mirza Yahya and others, Baha'u'llah journeyed alone to Sulaymaniyyih and was absent for two years. During that time, Mirza Yahya was acting with utmost caution behind a veil of concealment and, fearing the attention of the General Consul of Persia in Baghdad, disguised himself, took the name of Haji 'Ali, and engaged in selling shoes and plaster in Ba?rah and in Suqu'sh-Shuyukh in the vicinity of Baghdad.   AB00097

The first transgression committed in the Bayan was that he betrayed the sanctity of the Point's household, which was the mother of all servants, explicitly forbidden to all in every Book, as decreed in all heavenly scriptures and likewise explicitly prohibited in the Bayan. The flames of passion were so intense that they did not spare even God's sanctuary, and after violation, being disturbed, they passed her to another, as you have all heard.  BH04610

However, souls who were thought to be helpers of the Cause arose in opposition, among them Yahya. God is My witness, and earth and heaven bear testimony, that I reared and protected him through the nights and days. At last, through the temptation of a certain soul, he appeared as a serpent. When he found no opportunity and what lay in his heart was exposed, he resorted to deception and guile. He is like unto a viper that both biteth and gloweth.  BH00253

After this truth emerged, the government curtailed the aggressive hands of the oppressors, and the royal court became a refuge and shelter for the oppressed. Now, exactly like the previous situation in Iran, on one side a group of calumniators and on the other side those with ulterior motives, including certain individuals from among the local inhabitants here, have united with the affectionate brother Mirza Muhammad 'Ali to spread various calumnies.   AB00084

Mirza Yahya, who claimed to be the Vicegerant of the Bab, always fearing from his own shadow, was concealing himself in a thousand hiding-places. Completely disguised and under the assumed name of Haji Ali, he traveled like a Darveesh between Bagdad and Balsorah. In order to hide his identity from the public he had hung on a piece of string a few red and yellow Arabian slippers, selling them to the people while walking through the streets and Bazaars.   ABU0787

I protected my brother from the vicissitudes of time and called him at all times to Thy name, the All-Merciful. I revealed unto him of Thy verses and sheltered him beneath the wing of Thy mercy, never leaving him exposed to the winds. How then hath he harmed Thy creation and wronged Thy creatures? I protected his life while he, in the most hidden of secrets, sharpened the blade of his dagger to shed my blood. I nurtured him in my days, yet he dug a pit for me.  BH01875

As for what thou hast asked about Yahya - he was in Baghdad when those horizons were illumined by the Most Glorious Beauty, but Yahya remained hidden in dark holes and dared not show himself to anyone, whether enemy or friend. Meanwhile, the Most Glorious Beauty was clearly visible, confronting the faces of enemies, enduring and becoming the target of arrows shot by the people of hatred with complete power and might, without any helper or assistant whatsoever.  AB12196

Through Yahyai deception perpetrates corruption against these innocent ones... This party of Yahya, which among all the dispersed parties set everyone against each other so that perhaps in this struggle they might snatch the ball from the field and establish a government, has ruined Iran. Now they are honored and respected while this oppressed party, from whom nothing has emerged except the good of Iran, has become captive to the corruption of Iran's ill-wishers.  AB06151

For a time, Azal had neither name nor trace. He was always in hiding due to extreme fear. No one ever had any news of him. During his lifetime he never guided anyone to the Cause. For forty years in Cyprus, despite the freedom under the British government, he did not convert a single person from Cyprus to become a Babi. Day and night his preoccupation was with several women, from whom he produced these ill-mannered children that you saw in Cyprus. He even took the wife of the Exalted Bab and showed no restraint, despite it being explicitly forbidden in the Bayan. He did this during the absence of the Blessed Beauty and after a few days gave this woman to another. This was the service he rendered to the Bab. After the Bab's breast became the target of a thousand bullets, instead of spending his days with weeping eyes and a burning heart and lamentations, he occupied himself with multiplying wives. What is known, evident and confirmed is that he took eleven wives - one named Haji, another the sister of Haji Ruqiyyih, the daughter of Mulla Abdul-Fattah, Ruqiyyih A'raj daughter of Mirza Haydar-Quli, the mother of Ahmad, Badri Jan, Nisa Jan in Tehran, Qanih, an Arab girl, the teacher's wife, and the wife of the Primal Point.  AB01065

As to what the heedless one mentioned about why Azal was rejected, say: O heedless one! We have never turned to anyone. We have fixed Our gaze upon that proof whereby all the Prophets and Messengers have proven the truth. Today, the station whose verses have encompassed the world and whose manifestation hath shone forth like the sun from the beginning before the faces of all mankind - this thou hast denied, while making mention of Azal who was ever hidden behind a veil.   BH00491

On another occasion one of the Baha'i ladies kissed by pleading and insistence the Master's hands in the Presence of Baha'u'llah. Mirza Mohamad Ali and rest blamed her severely, telling her that she has committed a great mistake to kiss the hands of anybody else before Baha'u'llah. Then Baha'u'llah hearing about this calls that woman before everybody and tells her: I am very pleased with you because in My Presence thou didst manifest thy devotion and respect to the Master.   ABU1786

Beyond all this, consider the oppression and tyranny of My brother and his followers. Wherever We went, before many days had passed, he would come and dwell in perfect comfort and honor with his known women companions - as all have heard and know - protected beneath the pavilions of protection. Yet they call him the wronged one and attribute injustice to God, exalted be His glory! If this Wronged One was an oppressor, why did My brother proceed to that land and enter Our house?   BH01155

Among those killed by Mirza Yahya's order, as explicitly stated in his book Mustaiqiz where at the end he says God will send Muhammad to kill you, was someone whom the Exalted One had named Dayyan - they killed him by Mirza Yahya's order. Similarly they secretly killed and eliminated Mirza Ali Akbar, the cousin of the Exalted One, in Kazimayn. All Babis know this - ask the Afnan relatives of the Exalted One, they know. Likewise they secretly killed Aqa Abu'l-Qasim Kashi by his order.   AB01058

Mirza Yahya had hidden himself in a thousand holes. The Cause of God had entirely vanished. In Baghdad, Mirza Yahya was selling Yemeni cloth in the Suq al-Shuyukh, wearing a turban as large as Mount Abu Qubays. Then he changed his name and became known as Haji Ali the cloth merchant. They had asked him, Why do you change your name every day and wear different clothes each day? He had replied, So that people won't recognize me. With such cowardice and foolishness he wanted to oppose the Blessed Beauty.  ABU0922

When he witnessed his own powerlessness, he then slandered this Youth, though thou knowest We had taught him, reared him, and protected him through all months and years. By God! We exalted his mention that he might aid his Lord, yet he chose to veil his face in fear for himself. When the breezes of assurance wafted from Our presence, he then arose to plot in such wise as would astound every person of keen insight. Thus did it befall the Youth from him who was created by His word and was raised up by His command  BH01091

However, after the martyrdom of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab], what did Azal accomplish? He did not edify or teach a single soul, nor did he render the slightest service [to the Cause]. The only thing he did was to increase the number of his wives and spent all his time with them. He even grew so shameless as to take the wife of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab] as his own - an act that was specifically forbidden in the Bayan. He lived in Cyprus for forty years, and yet he failed to teach a single person.   ABU1033

When My brother witnessed that My name had become renowned among the servants and that no harm had befallen Me in My manifestation among the people, he regretted his concealment and emerged from behind the veil in ways that cannot be uttered by the tongue. His first act was to secretly decree My death as commanded by self and passion. When the hosts of God's sovereignty descended and protected Me by His sovereignty and prevented him from what he intended, he then arose to calumny and wrote to every soul that his brother intended to kill him.   BH00899

Say: O people of God! By the life of God, We had taken for Ourself a brother and aided him to serve Our Cause before Our face, and revealed for him that which diffused the fragrance of God's utterance throughout all else. We then raised him to a station beyond which the stations of the servants and the reach of those in all lands were cut off. But when he saw himself in that most holy, most noble, most mighty, most exalted station, pride seized him until he turned away from God, the Lord of the Day of Resurrection and He Who conversed on Sinai.   BH00436

Then, when I departed, he attributed to My Beauty all that he had committed, that he might establish his own innocence. Yet you know that had this servant desired to harm him, it would have been possible by any means, and none would have had the right to question it, for verily He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth. Nevertheless, I protected him with the utmost protection. He hath written and continueth to write to all regions claiming that he was imprisoned, and whatever else he hath seen in his own self he hath attributed to this Wronged One.   BH01359

One who is so impotent that, despite being in Cyprus with British freedom, could not guide a single soul in forty years - such a one seeks to set up someone against the Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His threshold), Who moved East and West, Whose fame of greatness encompassed all regions, and Whose might became world-conquering; Who, from prison, issued those potent tablets to the kings of the earth, and spread the musk-laden breeze of truth throughout East and West. Yahya, with such impotence and weakness, wishes to resist the Most Glorious Beauty?   AB00101

Now that he is under British protection in Cyprus he calls himself chief, and Mirza Yahya Dawlatabadi likewise claims successorship and vicegerency, counting himself a precious soul. Despite this he pronounces his disavowal and in your newspaper announces his repudiation of the Prince of the Wronged Ones. As for Mirza Yahya of Cyprus, after the martyrdom of the Bab, the grace that issued forth from this distinguished Siyyid was that during the days of mourning he took to his embrace in marriage the companion of that Wronged One, and not content with this, he divorced her and gave her in marriage to Siyyid Muhammad Isfahani.  AB00969

All, both friend and stranger, know that in times of danger their leader would travel to every land in dervish garb, holding out an alms bowl on the roads saying "Something for God's sake." When the incident of Sadiq and Nasiri'd-Din Shah occurred, he abandoned all the friends under sword and chain in the district of Nur, and promptly fled to Mazandaran and Gilan. He wound a cord around his head, donned dervish garb, called himself Darvish 'Ali, and wandered through mountain and plain until the Ancient Beauty was exiled to Iraq. He then followed to Baghdad seeking divine protection, but remained hidden and fearful of all humanity.   AB00050

But he saw himself as the Mirror and beheld himself as supreme, and did not relinquish the Cause - nay, worse than that, he made his son Mirza Ahmad his primary successor. Had We not manifested Our Cause, according to the testament of the Exalted One, it would have been incumbent upon him to advise the people of the Bayan, to prefer the words of another, and to relinquish the Cause. Another deed that blinded his inner eye was that the Point of the Bayan had called Himself the first to believe in him. When He appeared and His verses and proofs gave life to the dead, sight to the blind, and hearing to the deaf, he not only failed to acknowledge Him but arose to cut down the Divine Lote-Tree.  BHU0005

Despite there being several women in his household, most of whom are known by name and reputation, yet he did not spare the honor of the Primal Point, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake. That shameless one committed that which caused the Ancient Beauty to be afflicted with great sorrow for a time. This incident occurred during the days of exile of the Truth, exalted be His glory. Similarly, for the sake of two days of worldly life, he caused the martyrdom of Dayyan and Khalilu'r-Rahman, sending a woman to the government house for begging. He ordered the execution of the honored Mirza 'Ali-Akbar, who was reportedly one of the relatives of the Exalted One (the Bab), and had him martyred.  BH00712

When my brother witnessed that the sun of certitude had dawned from the horizon of utterance through this Youth, Who stood at the center of all creation with the adornment of the All-Merciful, he emerged from behind the veil of concealment and rose up to war against the Beauty of the All-Glorious, becoming one of the antagonists. He pronounced against me what his self and passion commanded him. Then the hosts of victory descended from the direction of a mighty throne, and the vanguards of divine protection appeared from the horizon of glory. When he found himself disappointed in what he desired and dejected in what he sought, he devised another stratagem, whereby all names were disturbed in their kingdoms, and all existence, both seen and unseen, wept at what befell my soul - and God was witness over him and me.  BH00682

One afternoon, He came out from the sanctuary, and all the emigrant servants were standing in His presence, including this servant, Haji Mirza Ahmad, Siyyid Muhammad and others. He said that a strange thing had been witnessed that day. These servants waited to learn what had occurred. After about ten minutes or more of silence, He turned to these servants and said that at dawn that day, a bird had perched on a branch of the tree by the house, saying these words: Muhammad has come and calamity has come, and the bird repeated these words three times. None of these servants imagined it referred to the present Muhammad. Even Siyyid Muhammad himself considered such a thing impossible regarding himself. After two full years had passed, that which was to appear appeared. At that time it became known who was meant by the mentioned Muhammad. By God! By God! His actions and deeds are not worthy of mention.  BH00004

What manifestation occurred! And now too if a test should arise, by God besides Whom there is no God, you will immediately observe them mounting the pulpit declaring "We are innocent!", nay rather cursing and reviling. Ask these souls one proper question and say: O fair-minded ones, by God, after the shedding of the pure blood of the Bab, what did this Mirza Yahya do except constantly pursue marriage, taking a new wife each day, even transgressing against the honored wife who was the Mother of the Believers - something categorically forbidden by the text of all divine religions. Despite this he showed not even outward respect - he took possession of her himself and not content with this bestowed her upon another. Apart from this atrocious act what service did he render to God's Cause? Whom did he teach? What question did he explain? When did he arise in sacrifice? When did he manifest a divine spirit?   AB00067

We arose alone before the gaze of the peoples of earth and heaven at a time when all had determined to slay us. While dwelling in their midst, We continually made mention of the Lord, celebrated His praise, and stood firm in His Cause, until at last the Word of God was vindicated amongst His creatures, His signs were spread abroad, His power exalted, and His sovereignty revealed in its full splendour. To this bear witness all His honoured servants. Yet when My brother beheld the rising fame of the Cause, he became filled with arrogance and pride. Thereupon he emerged from behind the veil of concealment, rose up against Me, disputed My verses, denied My testimony, and repudiated My signs. Nor would his hunger be appeased unless he were to devour My flesh and drink My blood. To this testify such of God's servants as have accompanied Him in His exile, and, beyond them, they that enjoy near access unto Him.  BH00007

Then know that after thy departure, We left these people and dwelt alone in the house, closing the door, that perchance thereby the fire of hatred might be stilled in the breasts of the deceivers. Thou knowest that I spoke not a word with my brother nor associated with him. When there appeared from him what he desired and God revealed what was hidden in his breast, he arose with mighty calumny and wrote tablets wherein he attributed to My wronged, lonely, estranged Self what he wished within himself [...] You know that I was a refuge in my absence from those people, and in my isolation from those who desired to kill me without proof or illuminating Book. You were with Us - did you dispute with him regarding his cause after he was secretly writing in the Tablets that which would set aflame the hearts of those drawn nigh? Apart from this, he arose to shed my blood after We had nurtured him and protected him from the evil of every evil one.  BH00940

I shielded him with Mine own breast against the darts of the enemies, protecting him lest the arrows of the idolaters reach him, while he, in his innermost heart, lay in wait to slay Me. When God unveiled the hidden designs of his soul, he rose up against Me with calumnies, that he might instill rancor in the breasts of those who had taken vain imaginings as their lord instead of God, the True Sovereign, the Just, the All-Wise. Thou hast indeed associated with Me - didst thou ever find Me willing to harm any created thing? Be fair, then, and be of the equitable. Had I desired to harm My brother, was I not able to do so? Yet despite My power over him and My knowledge of his condition, I sheltered him beneath My wing for twenty years, while he would veil his face in fear of both friend and foe. When at last he felt secure, he emerged like a serpent to sting Me at every moment, until no spot remained on My body that bore not the mark of his venom  BH08070

Be thou steadfast in the love of thy Lord, then detach thyself from the idolaters. And shouldst thou see the Satan from whom thou perceivest the stench of polytheism, shun him and be under mighty protection. He appears in human form and speaks of what was revealed in the Bayan, that he might cause confusion among Our weak servants. Say: Should anyone manifest the essence of piety and worship his Lord with the devotion of both worlds, yet not believe in this Revelation, God will render his deeds void and return him to his abode in hellfire.  BH04854

There have been and are many benefits in travel. The purpose is that he might honor Cyprus with his presence for some days near my brother, but he must see with his own eyes and hear with his own ears. It will become clear and evident to him with whom the Cause was in the beginning, and from whom the revealed verses came. BH01599

strange it is that some people in Iran still remain secluded in the corner of forgetfulness and are immersed in endless sleep. Some are utterly deaf, dumb and blind. Despite the sun shining at its zenith, they secretly mention Yahya among the heedless, saying this and that. Although this person is known and visible, let the seekers at least take the trouble to hasten to Cyprus to see with their own eyes his condition and the state of his children, and hear with their own ears his stammering tongue and statements devoid of explanation - no utterance, no exposition, no wisdom, no mysteries, no novel remembrances. If they cannot go there, let them inquire of the people of Cyprus whether that deluded soul, despite his freedom, has in forty years converted or transformed even a single person in that island, or shown any sign of power in any matter. All the inhabitants of the island testify that he is mute and dumb, yet some deluded souls in Iran call him a sweet-singing parrot and a melodious nightingale. Evil is that which they imagine, evil is that which they believe. Leave them to their vain imaginings wherein they revel. AB00253

During his stay in Iraq, he would secretly drink wine and engage in other improper acts. Toward the end of the Iraq period, he would sometimes transgress from secrecy to openness, yet those circling around would conceal it  BH01008

Satan will appear on the Island of Qaf and prevent people from the All-Merciful. Hubab (name of Satan and serpent) will appear on his associated island (the island associated with Satan is Cyprus, called Satan's Island). He is short in stature, thick-bearded, narrow of forehead and chest, yellow of eye and hair, with camel-like fur on his back and goat-like hair on his chest.  AB08037



O My brother, who hast slandered Me after I reared thee by Mine own self and protected thee from the harm of the worlds! How many were the nights when thou didst rest in comfort upon thy bed while I kept vigil around thy house as one of thy protectors! How many were the days when thou didst dwell at ease with thy wives while I stood before the presence of the oppressors lest harm touch thee or aught befall thee that would grieve thee and cause thee to be among the sorrowers! Yet despite all this, thou didst secretly plot behind My back, seeking to find occasion against Me and to do that which would shake the pillars of a mighty throne. We would send to various lands to bring before thee that which would gladden thy soul and bring joy to thy being, that thou mightest be among those who rejoice. Yet at every moment thou didst seek to harm Me, to such extent that if thou couldst find someone to whom thou couldst confide, thou wouldst impart that which would consume the hearts of the concourse of the worlds. By God! I was aware of all this, yet after this knowledge We concealed what thou wert doing - thus was thy Lord All-Forgiving, Most Merciful. By God! Through what flowed from thy pen regarding morals, the faces of glory fell prostrate in the dust, the veil of grandeur was rent in the Ridvan of eternity, and the hearts of those near to God were convulsed, until thou didst journey with Me on this journey which caused tears to flow down the radiant cheeks of the dwellers in the exalted chambers of glory. Despite all thou didst ask of Me and seek My permission for, I spoke not a word, for I perceived in thee what none else in the worlds had perceived. When thou didst journey and enter this land, thou didst rise against Me every day, nay every hour. By God! No spot remained in My body that was not struck by the arrows of thy schemes. If thou wouldst deny this, the Tongue of God, the Sovereign, the All-Knowing, would bear witness. Until thou didst slander Me without any proof or clear book. When these emigrants learned of this, their cries and lamentations were raised while thou wert in thy house in great comfort and delight. When We witnessed thy deed and what flowed from thy pen, We departed from among you alone, with no helper or supporter, such that there was none to serve Me or cook for these children what had been ordained for them from the Kingdom of their Lord, the Giving, the Bountiful, the Merciful. Yet even after this thou didst not rest, but spread throughout the land thy deeds in My name to instill rancor in the hearts of the loved ones, and there issued from thy tongue and pen that which the Pen of the Most High would be ashamed to recount. Hear then what was revealed before: "If thou stretch out thine hand to slay Me, I shall not stretch out Mine hand to slay thee. God is witness to what I say." O My brother! By God, thou and those with thee shall perish and return to dust, while sovereignty remaineth with God, the Almighty, the Powerful. By God, O My brother! I harbor no hatred for thee nor for any created thing in My heart. Therefore hear My words, purify thyself, and be not of the heedless. Even if thou remainest as thou art and all in the heavens and earth were to bow down before thee, would it profit thee in any way? Nay, by My Self, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise!  BH00061

The world of the Bayan hath been transformed into the world of the Shi'ih, in its essence, its outward form, its names, its attributes, its delusions and its imaginings. Nay, its people are seen to be more remote, more debased and more ignorant.   BH00055

You have undoubtedly heard the details of what transpired in Adrianople, when Siyyid Muhammad, being confident that the Ancient Beauty would not confront one such as Yahya, told Mir Muhammad - who was one of the simple-minded followers - and likewise to some of the Persians of that land, that on the morrow so-and-so would come forth. If they spoke the truth, let them also come forth and meet at the Sultan Selim Mosque, that truth might be distinguished from falsehood. The next day, Mir Muhammad - upon him be the glory of God - came and conveyed this message to the Most Holy Court. At that moment, the Ancient Beauty arose and went forth from the gate of the private quarters, revealing divine verses in the most exalted voice as He proceeded, until He arrived at the mosque. Some Persians were present, listening in utter amazement, with tears streaming down their faces. He told Mir Muhammad: "Go and tell them to appear." After some time he returned and reported that the Chief of Liars had asked to be excused. The Ancient Beauty granted a further two days' respite. This incident occurred in the presence of seventy believers and others. Nevertheless, after arrival in the Most Great Prison, one day a well-known person came into the presence of the Most Great Branch - may my spirit, my being, and my essence be sacrificed for the dust of His most mighty footsteps - and reported that Siyyid Muhammad and Aqa Jan were claiming that in Adrianople it had been arranged for the Ancient Beauty to meet with him in one assembly for discourse, but while Mirza Yahya came, the Ancient Beauty did not appear, and this became evident to all the divines, notables and the governor. The Branch of God presented this before the Divine Throne, saying: "Such astonishment seized me that I was rendered incapable of response." Now observe how they have recounted and distorted such a clear and evident matter. They have attributed to themselves all the characteristics of the Ancient Beauty, and ascribed their own misdeeds to the Manifestation of sanctity and holiness. Throughout the years of their stay in Adrianople, they were occupied day and night with such activities. Thus whatever was manifested from the Most Great Branch in His childhood, Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani would attribute to Ahmad, son of Yahya, and mention it in his name. The curse of God be upon the liars and the slanderers!  BH00054
