you will witness the comfort, joy and bounty of these hardships in the Abha Kingdom  AB04108

He giveth them glad tidings of the most exalted Paradise and the All-Highest Station   BH09823

Verily God will reward them with the best of what they have wrought in this earthly life   BB00467

We give glad tidings unto him who hath borne tribulations of God's good-pleasure and His grace  BH09014

to ordain for thee a reward befitting one who hath attained (the visit of) the Holy Threshold in this Cause   AB06454

rest assured that the recompense for these good deeds will be bestowed from the Kingdom of the Lord of Signs   AB06914

Blessed art thou for having turned towards the Most Sublime Horizon and believed in God, the Mighty, the Great.   BH09543

This is the Day of requital and recompense, and the Just, the All-Wise is seated upon the throne of His command.  BH10220

The fruits of the deeds of man, i.e., the harvest of the reward of man's conduct, is gathered in the heavenly realm.  AB01223

If a man commit a transgression he has been unjust to himself, and soon he will find that he is in manifest regret and remorse.  AB01771

The reward of no soul hath been lost, nor shall it be lost. If anyone draweth a single breath for the sake of God, its effects shall assuredly appear in creation. Verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. BH07558

Service to the Cause of God consists of detachment and sanctification, abstraction and unity, and the manifestation of merciful attributes among humanity. The fruit and effect of this service is ancient glory for humanity in all divine worlds. Even at the point of dust, which is the lowest and basest of stations, observe how even in the world of dust and mineral the traces of certain souls are extant and evident. Draw thy lesson from this and take warning. How long shall we remain captive in this snare for the sake of a grain, and stay imprisoned and sorrowful in this cage hoping for a mere morsel?  AB04059


"I swear by My life! The true believer, after his ascension, shall find himself in a state of eternal peace and everlasting bliss."  BH06887

Verily, he who hath attained unto this Day is reckoned among the denizens of Paradise in the sight of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH06708

Soon shall the heedless behold the recompense of their deeds, and you shall witness your reward with God, the Most High, the Great.   BH06821

then shall the sincere ones find that which hath been ordained for them in the Most Great Paradise from God, the Forgiving, the Generous   BH07807

Whoso hath attained unto the remembrance of God in His days, he is of those who have attained unto all good and for whom there is a goodly end   BH03631

"These favors have We bestowed upon thee as a bounty on Our part and a mercy from Our presence, that thou mayest be of those who are grateful."  BH02022

By the Justice and judgment of God those who commit evil suffer and are punished for it and eternal punishment is merited by these evil-doers.   ABU3087

Offer a hundred thousand thanksgivings at every moment that you have become the recipient of such favors and the manifestation of such bounties.  AB03966

One kind results from bad morals and misconduct such as falsehood, dishonesty, treachery, cruelty and the like. Surely, misdeeds bring forth evil consequences.  ABU2845

I beseech the Truth that, as recompense for that heart-burning, you may find an illumined countenance and accumulated treasure in the gathering of the Supreme Concourse  AB04027

And whoso is adorned with that which We have commanded him, God will raise him up on the Day of Resurrection in the most beauteous form, and God is verily witness unto this.  BH09223

But praise be to God, you were assisted to a life whose end is joy and success, and eternal glory in the divine realm. All kings will envy your station and covet your glory   AB06224

"God judges not as we judge; He looks at the intentions of the heart. Also His punishment is always to cure, to redeem, to educate, so that we may become radiant sons of God."   ABU3091

And in the next world too, there are countless paradises prepared for the believers and sincere ones, and the spirits of holy souls enjoy all heavenly blessings and divine favors  ABU1302

Evil man will be in a state of torture out of which they must progress. The good man progress out of it in the flesh because of the torture they suffered while in the life here.   ABU0747

Then you will witness eternal sovereignty and the crown of everlasting dominion. All hopes and desires, whether in this world or the next, will be fulfilled and all aims will be achieved.  AB04585

Praised be to He Who hath given refuge to the sincere ones in His All-highest bounty! Praised be to He Who hath brought the believers in the Unity of God into the paradise of His dwelling place!   AB01880

This one becomes the eternal culture and melody of the everlasting world, while that one's end is regret in this world without name or fame. That one is eternal light, and this one everlasting remorse  AB03772

"The greatest reward for a man is to see his life well-spent and useful. The reward of the lamp is its own illumination. It does not require any other compensation. Good deeds are their own rewards."   ABU1880

Soon you shall see the criminals weeping and lamenting and crying out in grief, saying "Alas for what we neglected!" And they shall say "Would that we were dust, or decayed bones, or scattered particles!"  AB10534

and you shall return to the holy presence before God, the True King, the Manifest One, and shall be questioned concerning what you did in your vain life, and shall be recompensed for what your hands have wrought  BH04086


If in the previous Dispensation it was revealed "Whoso performeth a good deed shall receive a tenfold reward," praise be to God, in this mightiest Dispensation a hundredthousandfold reward is ordained and established.   AB06364

"If someone is going, take him this message, or write to him, that this consideration he showed toward these prisoners will not be forgotten in the divine Kingdom, therefore let him be assured that he will see its recompense."   ABU1380

In the end, Tahir made him Minister of Finance and said, Had you not been truthful at first, I would have killed you then and there. But since you were honest and steadfast in your purpose, you deserve to be Minister of Finance.  ABU0317

They who have disbelieved, these shall eat of the tree of Zaqqum, while they who have believed shall rejoice in Paradise, these shall delight in the fruits of divine knowledge. And unto each is appointed in the Book a portion according to their deeds  BH04546

The Most Great Word is from God. Fear ye not the Day when no master shall avail his master in aught, and the Kingdom on that Day shall belong in truth to the All-Merciful and to the family of God and their true followers, as hath been inscribed in the Mother Book.  BB00002

And as to those who disbelieve in that which was revealed unto Thee in that Book, after they had understood its truth, they are indeed of them who have joined partners with God, while the faithful, who whenever they hearken unto the words of God, prostrate themselves in adoration.  BB00316

The perfections of man are really the rewards of man. One spirit may be perfect, wise, knowing, possessed of praiseworthy virtues and human perfections. These virtues are in themselves the reward of this spirit. One spirit may be radiant, lordly, merciful. These qualities are its reward.   ABU2120

And as to those who fear God and follow His commandments, God shall preserve them from the shame of this world, and in the world to come they shall be the inheritors of the gardens of eternity wherein whatsoever their souls desire hath been prepared for them, and verily theirs shall be a magnificent reward.  BB00531

And if in this Day one should forsake all deeds but attain unto recognition of the Truth, there remaineth for him hope of salvation; but should he, God forbid, be veiled from the Truth while occupied with all manner of deeds, there is no escape for him and he shall be reckoned by God among the people of hell, negation and fire.  BH01949

And whosoever sendeth blessings upon Me once, God will send blessings upon him five hundred thousand times. Verily, He is the best of those who send blessings. And whosoever visiteth Me, I shall visit him on the Day of Resurrection before my Lord, for God hath granted Me from His presence a most great station among the worlds.   BB00164

The suffering soul will attain great benefit whereas the other will fall into manifest loss. This one will pluck the fruit of salvation from the tree of life whereas the other will obtain the bitter zaqun from the orchard of his hopes. This field will see divine blessings. That earth will cause the shrub of hopelessness to grow.  AB04298

For rewards and punishments are said to be of two kinds, one being existential rewards and punishments and the other, ultimate rewards and punishments. Existential paradise and hell are to be found in all the worlds of God, whether in this world or in the heavenly realms of the spirit, and to gain these rewards is to attain life eternal.   AB00268

As to those who believe in thee in the Book, We shall assuredly remember them as a grace from Us, that they may be mindful. Those who hasten to the mercy of their Lord - these are the sincere ones. And those who place their trust in Him in any matter - these are they that trust. Glory be unto them, before and after, though they know it not.   BB00437

God shall send down upon those who have believed in the Bayan whatsoever they ask of His bounty. These are they who shall inherit Paradise, wherein they shall abide forever. Therein shall they have whatsoever their souls desire, and God shall bestow more upon them from His presence. Verily, there is no God but He, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  BB00003

As to the question regarding the soul of a murderer, and what his punishment would be, the answer given was that the murderer must expiate his crime: that is, if they put the murderer to death, his death is his atonement for his crime, and following the death, God in His justice will impose no second penalty upon him, for divine justice would not allow this.   AB02343

Soon all these pains and trials shall be compensated in the Kingdom of Holiness that transcends the comprehension of souls. Each arrow shall have the effect of a hundred thousand favors of the Luminous Beauty, and each bitter cup shall yield a hundred thousand seas of matchless sweetness. Soon shall ye behold the fruits of these tribulations in the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB00959

Now we are only believing in God, but we cannot realize the great blessing of this until we get into that condition. It is known that when we pass from this world to the other, that every good thing or delight or every bad thing will be the result of actions here. It is said by the Bab that Hell is prepared for man through his lack of belief in God, and Paradise is prepared by belief in God.  ABU0370

but the son who hath been offered up by his father and the father who hath sacrificed his son shall both shine like the twin Pleiades in the firmament of everlasting glory and shall be seated on the starry throne of everlasting sovereignty. Great is their blessedness! All happiness be theirs and all bounty, through the light of this favour that has illumined both earth and heaven with grace.  AB04704

Soon will God show them their deeds as sources of regret unto themselves, scattered dust upon the earth, like a mirage in the desert which the thirsty one supposeth to be water, until, when he cometh unto it, he findeth it to be nothing, and they shall find their deeds in hell as fire upon fire intensified. This is the recompense for having been wretched regarding Our true verses contrary to the truth.  BB00002

As for the spirits of the infidels, by My life, at the time of death they recognize what has passed them by, and they lament and implore. Likewise after their spirits depart from their bodies. It is very clear and evident that after death all will become aware of their deeds and actions. By the Sun of the horizon of might! The people of truth will at that time experience such joy as cannot be described. Similarly, the people of error will be seized by such fear, anxiety and terror as cannot be imagined.   BH00972
