...it is quite clear that one must speak according to the capacity of the listeners. That epistle was written because some relatives of the Primal Point, may our souls be sacrificed for all except Him, had doubts about certain matters and had not yet advanced from the Quran to the Bayan. Therefore, for the people of the Quran, Quranic verses were used as proof lest they become disturbed, as they did not yet accept the Bayan and thus could not be shown verses from the wondrous Bayan.  BH00097

"Some souls are like unto dry wood, others are like unto wet wood and there are others who are like unto the stones."   ABU3192

Due to severe upheavals, souls have acquired an extraordinary receptivity - when these upheavals are forgotten, this receptivity will not remain.  AB12112

Until you find thirst, bestow not the Kawthar of divine knowledge; until you observe the quest, grant not the gems of inner meanings.   BH06762

It is good to be a spreader of the Teachings of God in childhood.  I was a teacher in this Cause at the age of this child (eight or nine years).  This reminds me of a story.  There was a man, highly educated, but not a Bahai.  I, but a child, was to make of him a believer.  The brother of this man brought him to me.  I stayed with him, to teach him.  He said, "I am not convinced, I am not satisfied."  I answered, "If water were offered to a thirsty one, he would drink and be satisfied.  He would take the glass.  But you are not thirsty.  Were you thirsty, then you too would be satisfied.  A man with seeing eyes sees.  I can speak of the sun to every seeing one, and say it is a sign of the day; but a blind person would not be convinced because he cannot see the sun.  If I say to a man with good hearing, listen to the beautiful music, he would then listen and be made happy thereby.  But if you play the most beautiful music in the presence of a deaf man, he would hear nothing.  Now go and receive seeing eyes and hearing ears, then I will speak further with you on this subject."  He went; but later he returned.  Then he understood and became a good Bahai.  This happened when I was very young.  ABU1846
