The three spirits - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit and the human spirit (that is, the rational soul) - do not return after death to this world of the first creation. However, the spirit of faith, which is the light of guidance, and the Holy Spirit, which is the reality of divine revelation, both return in every dispensation and cycle to this realm of the first creation. AB04973

A soul, once freed from its body, never again takes shape in this world.   ABU3578

In the teachings of Baha'u'llah, reincarnation of souls in multiple bodies is not mentioned.   AB01794

"The question of reincarnation is a very important question. It is in need of elucidation and amplification. It cannot be briefly answered."  ABU1593

Reincarnation as understood by people is false, but in the Gospel there is reference to return, and that return refers to qualities, not essence   AB01398

In the Book of Iqan we can read the Word of God concerning the true Reincarnation, which is the Return of the Spiritual Qualities in the Servants of God.   ABU1773

"Why should you wish to return here? In My Father's House are many mansions -- many, many worlds! Why should you desire to come back to this particular planet?"  ABU3526

(When asked about reincarnation, He said:) It is not as people have understood it. Rather, the intent is the return of past qualities and perfections in new forms.  ABU1969

The divine worlds are infinite, and this fact, as well as the invalidity of the doctrine of reincarnation, are explicitly set forth in the Book of Certitude in clear terms  AB11886

The visible world does nothing but change and change leads to annihilation. We must be sure then, when the soul of man leaves his body it never returns to that body again.  ABU1136

But regarding the issue of reincarnation, meaning return after death, do not oppose them on this as it is the beginning and one must be tolerant. Return is correct but not reincarnation.  AB04080

One of the most frequent subjects on which Abdul Baha was questioned was that of reincarnation. In the sense of the same ego being educated and evolved through many lives he may be said to hold this doctrine, but he gave clearly as his own belief that we are here as human beings on this earth for the first and last time. When asked his reason for this belief, he answered:  "We have grown up step by step, always to a state in advance of the last. God's processes are never retrogressive. No butterfly goes back into the chrysalis: constant change, never a repetition, is the fundamental law. So with what comes after this life. Here we are subject to the conditions of matter; after this will succeed life on the mental plane, a life freed from this material body. But according to the life we have lived here depend the conditions of life on that next plane. What we sow here, that we reap there. Even though on leaving this body we enter upon a life of the sprit, the conditions of the spirit-life must depend upon the degree of development to which the spirit has attained." ABU2537

And know thou, that verily, those whose were following the steps of Christ, detached their souls from the desires of the world, and made their hearts to depend on the bounties of heaven. Such are the people of the Kingdom and they are in no need of return for apprehending the bounty of the Kingdom. The consciences of such souls are clear, their inmost hearts are pure, [they] have obtained their aim, have betaken themselves to the vicinity of the mercy of their Mighty Lord, and thus they are in no need of being refined, developed and again endowed with sight.   AB02800


This failure of the soul has led man to believe that God will give the wicked soul another opportunity by allowing it to return in another body and atone for its failure. There is no proof of this outside or inside the Holy Book of Scriptures.  ABU0744

What the masters of the past have said concerning reincarnation is sheer superstition. When the human spirit departs, it does not return to this material world. For this world is but a single sphere, whereas the realms of the divine worlds are infinite.  AB00282

Reincarnation is a very abstruse question. If one desires to give a satisfactory explanation, one must write a book, so that the real meanings may be fully revealed. This subject can only be explained through divine philosophy, not through mere exposition of theories.  ABU1774

This reincarnation that people believe in is contrary to the divine books, because what is meant by return is the return of past attributes in future creation, and the comparison of the perfections of later creation to the conditions and attributes of those who came before.   ABU2254

As for your question about reincarnation, it is best to refer to the Book of Certitude which issued from the Supreme Pen. It explains in detail. These are divine texts, and there it is clearly stated that return refers to the return of human perfections and divine illumination.   AB01073

No: No one ever returns here, for this world is a school were the soul of man learns its first lessons in spirituality, and if he leaves this place without having learned his lessons sufficiently, the time is past and the opportunity lost; for the evolution of God's plans waits not for man   ABU2606

When John the Baptist was asked: "Art thou Elias?" he replied, "No." His soul was not the soul of Elias. When Christ was asked if John the Baptist was Elias, He said, "Yes." But Christ's meaning was a spiritual one. John the Baptist came in the same Spirit of God, but was not the same soul.   ABU1184

Similar types recur again and again, but without a continuing individual life from one human being to another. This recurrence may be likened to that of the seasons. Spring, summer, autumn, and winter return in succession, each season the counterpart of the like season in the previous year-the same yet not the same.   ABU0343

The first school believes that the spirit of man goes through infinite processes of birth and re-birth in the human kingdom, until it is refined and purified - finally attaining to the station of Nirvana. The second school believes that through the consequences of our deeds we may be born again into the lower kindgdoms of life - such as animals, birds, etc.  ABU0234

But in this new world all those called into being are new souls. It is not that a former soul becometh incarnated in another person, or that another individual becometh the soul of a former individual. Nay, rather they correspond with each other through manifestations; that is to say, he will be in the station of his soul, but his soul is not incarnated and the state of the soul does not become embodied.  BH05340

The doctrine of reincarnation as taught by the Buddhists, and some of the ancient philosophers is not true. It was largely invented by those people who clung to this world and loved it so that they could conceive of no happiness apart from it. Many of the Theosophists have said that it was necessary for people to return again and again in order to attain to perfection. But there is no spiritual benefit in mere length of time.  ABU1457

In the twenty-ninth chapter of the Book of Job, verses twenty-five, twenty-six and twenty-seven, which that person has used to argue for reincarnation, how contrary to truth it is and how clear, for He says: "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." This passage refers to the spiritual resurrection, for He says: "And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet without my flesh shall I see God." He says without my flesh shall I see - this is spiritual vision.  AB00038

Their leader came to meet in Boston. He had written a detailed book with illustrations, then he became a believer. Now he has written works. I said to him, "Were you not satisfied with this journey that you wish to come again?" He said, "I suffered much hardship this time, the second time will be better." ... I said, "Let me tell you," then he did not conceal it and said that the Theosophists have two things that people really like: one is the matter of reincarnation, saying you do not perish but simply remove one garment and put on another, and the other is being immersed in the ethereal realm with no return.  ABU0865

Each nation has expected a reincarnation of its greatest prophet, according to its religious belief. The Jews expected Moses to return as their Messiah; the Christians Christ; and the Mohammedans, Huseyn, the son of Fatima, with his twelve Imams. That is, they expected the return of the soul in its personality. When Christ was asked if John the Baptist was Elias He replied yes. When John the Baptist was asked the same question he replied no. Both answered truly. Christ's meaning was a spiritual one. John the Baptist came in the same spirit of God but not in the same soul. John meant that his soul and body were not those of Elijah.  ABU0299

Know, then, that the reincarnationists are of two kinds. The first do not believe in spiritual rewards and punishments in the next world. They hold instead that man receives his punishment or recompense through reincarnation and return to this world; they regard heaven and hell to be confined to this material realm; and they do not believe in the world beyond. This group is itself divided in two: One division holds that, as a severe punishment, man may at times assume an animal form in returning to this world, and that after enduring this painful torment he proceeds from the animal realm into the human world, and this they call transmigration. The other division holds that man returns to the same human world whence he departed, and that the rewards and punishments of the former life are experienced in his return, and this they call reincarnation.  AB00036

Thou didst write concerning the question of reincarnation. This belief in reincarnation is among the ancient beliefs of most peoples and nations, even being held by the philosophers of Greece, the sages of Rome, the ancient Egyptians, and the mighty Assyrians. However, before God all these sayings and imaginings are vain. The greatest argument of the reincarnationists was this: that divine justice requires each to receive his due. Thus whenever a person is afflicted with some calamity, we say it is because he committed some sin. But consider a child still in its mother's womb, whose embryo has just been conceived, and who is blind, deaf, lame, and malformed - what sin has such a child committed to deserve such punishment? They answer that although this child has outwardly committed no error in its mother's womb, in its previous form it committed some crime that made it deserve such punishment.   AB00282
