Whatever in days gone by hath been the cause of the denial and opposition of those people hath now led to the perversity of the people of this age. To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy.  BH00002

Most of his enemies will be the divines. His bidding they will not obey, but will protest saying: 'This is contrary to that which hath been handed down unto us by the Imams of the Faith.' In this day, all are repeating these very same words, utterly unaware that He is established upon the throne of 'He doeth whatsoever He willeth,' and abideth upon the seat of 'He ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth.'  BH00002

Behold, and know ye well that after my departure, at the instigation of certain unwise souls of the East, publications shall arise in this city against Bahá'u'lláh, and daily shall calumnies be brought forth into the arena of public discourse, that the truth might be concealed. Yet in Persia, verily, unto this hour have a hundred books been composed in opposition to Bahá'u'lláh, and reports and fabrications have been disseminated, even unto the extent that tablets and utterances have been falsely attributed to Bahá'u'lláh through calumny, that the truth might be hidden.  AB00242


Consider the past. How many, both high and low, have, at all times, yearningly awaited the advent of the Manifestations of God in the sanctified persons of His chosen Ones. And whensoever the portals of grace did open, and the clouds of divine bounty did rain upon mankind, and the light of the Unseen did shine above the horizon of celestial might, they all denied Him, and turned away from His face-the face of God Himself.  BH00002

Their attack hath been more fierce than tongue or pen can describe. Not one single Manifestation of Holiness hath appeared but He was afflicted by the denials, the repudiation, and the vehement opposition of the people around Him.  BH00002

Should you acquaint yourself with the indignities heaped upon the Prophets of God, and apprehend the true causes of the objections voiced by their oppressors, you will surely appreciate the significance of their position.  BH00002

Throughout ages and centuries, various sects occupied themselves with cursing one another from pulpits, each following a path according to their own fancy. When the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of God's will - exalted be His glory - all arose in opposition and protest. The supreme cause and greatest reason for their rejection was the opposition of the divines and religious leaders of the age, who in the early years arose with hypocrisy and issued the decree for the shedding of the most pure blood.  BH00201

By the life of God, the arrows of greed, avarice and desire have been loosed against the Temple of the Cause of the Lord of all beings. That unjust one, despite infinite bounties - to which your honor and the manifestations of justice and fairness have testified and continue to testify - with utmost audacity drew the sword of hatred, greed and desire against the Wronged One and committed that which caused the very essence of justice to weep and fairness to lament.  BH11862

All the divines and mystics were waiting to see on what day the new Sun would rise and the ocean of knowledge would appear. In the days and nights they were occupied with the remembrance of God upon their pulpits, beseeching and hoping for divine bounty that they might receive a portion from the Kawthar of reunion with the Dawning-Place of divine verses and take their share from the Salsabil of meeting. Nevertheless, when the world was illumined by the Sun of Manifestation, they turned away and objected   BH05351

When God adorned the Ridván and made it the seat of the Throne, clamorous voices were raised from every direction, and each faction arose to extinguish the resplendent and shining Light of God. The leaders of these factions were the divines of various religions who rose against Us with such tyranny as caused the denizens of the Supreme Paradise and those who circle round the exalted Seat to lament. They perpetrated that which none among the servants had ever perpetrated  BH05572

Behold and remember what the people of the Furqan committed when the All-Merciful came with a Cause that encompassed all the worlds. They denied Him in Whom they had believed, broke God's covenant and His pledge   BH02179

every learned one turned away   BH10980

the divines turned away from Him  BH04552

the oppressive divines are full of rancor and rage   AB02277

the divines and mystics of the earth are veiled from  BH06611

concerning Whom the divines unjustly pronounced their verdict   BH06176

Therefore, the jealousy of the turbaned ones has been aroused.  AB07938

This veil hath been and continueth to be the divines of the age.  BH03063

The divines assembled to harm Us, but God seized them with justice   BH08225

Ask the idols of the earth, namely the divines of Iran   BH04348

the fanatics and priests burning in the fire of hatred and jealousy   ABU2968

aided you to turn towards Him when every dubious learned one turned away   BH08090

My loved ones who were not prevented by the doubts of the divines from God  BH03306

the divines of Thy earth and the theologians of Thy lands have turned away  BH10525

The divines of that sect are, one and all, engaged in cursing and reviling.   BH02544

The divines who followed vain imaginings and idle fancies turned away from Him  BH07936

Let not the opposition of the divines and the people prevent you from the truth.  BH04408

How many were the divines and princes who remained deprived of the Water of Life   BH08719

deal with the clergy and others with the utmost kindness, consideration and regard.  AB03456

Yet the tales of old and the doubts and allusions of the divines have deprived all.   BH07333

Cast aside the divines - by God's life, they are the worshippers of vain imaginings.   BH09477

and from among the religious scholars of this region, a judge and a mufti, are present   AB05784

Perdition betide you and those who follow the vain imaginings of the heedless ones.  BH07993

How long will ye, O concourse of divines, level the spears of hatred at the face of Baha?  BH10509

The priests are like beasts of burden, and thus in common parlance they kick and strike out.  AB09233

And in all ages the cause of people's veiling has been the divines, as mentioned in the Books.  BH01999

With a pure heart, be patient and forbearing toward the pride and arrogance of the evil divines   AB02407

Beware lest the opposition of the divines or the allusions of any polytheist outcast withhold thee.  BH08228

Woe unto him who, wearing a turban, hath turned away and opposed God, the Mighty, the Peerless One.   BH08889

Neither the might of princes nor the clamor of divines could hold them back from the Lord of Names.   BH08026

Nevertheless, the ignorant divines have prevented heedless souls from the fountain of divine mercy.   BH02762

the servants and handmaidens have been prevented from the Lord of Names by the veils of the divines.   BH09624

Although the opinion is the King's opinion, the divines have not been and are not capable of anything.   BH02926

O concourse of divines! If ye deny what hath appeared, by what proof can ye establish what ye possess?   BH02626

The Shaykhu'l-Islam of Tiflis has, in his own imagination, written an elegant refutation of this Cause   AB06478

"...neither the clamor of Thy servants nor the whisperings of the divines of Thy land shall prevent him."  BH03939

despite the opposition of the divines, the objections of the doctors of law, and the rebellion of princes  BH08557

Neither the mention of the divines, nor the word of the jurisprudents, nor their clamor has deterred Him.   BH08599

The company of the divines at this time are not mentioned in the Most Holy Court, while thou art mentioned.  BH05712

Although some of the priests are obstacles and barriers, yet the power of God is triumphant and victorious.  AB02046

thou wert not afflicted with beholding the opposers and atheists and deniers, namely the divines of the age   BH07376

the divines of Persia and those who followed them turned away and spoke that which the ancients never spoke   BH04815

All these matters in every age and dispensation have appeared due to the turning away of the outward divines  BH05725

The divines of Iran have prevented the servants from believing and have deprived them of the Most Great Sea   BH05520

On one side, the divines of Iran have forbidden and continue to forbid the helpless servants from drawing nigh  BH04503

The Glory be upon you and upon every one who turneth unto God and whom the turbans have not hindered from God   BH04931

the unfaithful priests have altered more or less the blessed book of Zand to remove the glad tidings of today   AB02524

How many learned ones have perished, and how many ignorant ones have passed over the Bridge as passes a cloud!   BH02449

turned toward Thy horizon when the divines of Thy lands and the theologians of Thy countries turned away from it  BH10293

Some of the divines of Iran have, without any evidence or proof, issued death sentences against this community.   BH00754

Grievous indeed is the utterance of those who forge lies against God and His servant while thinking they do good.  BH11774

"woe unto him who, wearing a turban, hath grown proud and turned away from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed"  BH03630

A remembrance from Us to him who hath turned towards Us when the divines and theologians of the earth turned away.   BH05742

the traditional clergy and the rabble of the people made conditions unbearable and engaged in such bloodthirstiness  AB11690

How many learned ones have veiled themselves, and how many ignorant ones have turned to God, the Lord of all worlds!  BH08344

Mirza Hasan, the faithless mujtahid who opposed the nationalists, issued a fatwa for the killing of all the friends   AB01388

Say: O Pharaohs of the earth! If Pharaoh was able to extinguish the divine light, then you too shall be able to do so   BH06362

while a hundred thousand religious leaders and monks and countless scholars and learned ones of the world are deprived  AB09156

These thick clouds are the exponents of idle fancies and vain imaginings, who are none other but the divines of Persia.  BH00005

the divines of the earth have violated it, save those whom God, thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most Great, hath willed.   BH10999

Neither the denial of the divines, nor the turning away of the doctors of law, nor the might of princes hath deterred Us   BH08390

Praise be to God, there are many religious authorities - with one breach of trust as a bribe, any ruling can be obtained.  AB06173

they who have adorned their heads with turbans and have committed that which hath caused the Concourse on High...to lament  BH03893

Blessed is the divine who hath shown justice in the Cause of God and His Manifestation. Woe unto every sinful transgressor!   BH07644

How many Christian leaders have passed away, yet still the bells of this church ring loud, and how wicked most of them were.   ABU1668

And among them are those who cling to what their leaders possess, heedless of Him through Whom the religions were established.   BH05818

Every remote scholar turned away from Him...the divines opposed Him until they pronounced judgment against Him with such tyranny  BH10544

How many souls who counted themselves the most learned of all the world were seen to be unaware of Him Who is known and intended.   BH04375

Then remember when the Spirit came, how the learned ones turned away from Him while he who was a fisher of fish turned toward Him.   BH06291

The priest wrote that they had converted seventy people, but not much time passed before they all returned to their original state.  ABU1850

Blessed is the one whom the doubts of the divines and the allusions of the jurisprudents have not kept back from the Lord of Names.   BH04183

when He appeared the divines denied Him, as did those who followed them without any proof from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed  BH07411

Say: Beware lest the clamor of the divines prevent you from turning unto the Most Sublime Horizon. Leave them to their vain imaginings  BH08409

Such women as these have attained bounties but those leaders of religion have been turned disappointed from Thy door and are deprived.  AB09171

The pillars of the divines were shaken when the Lord of Names came with manifest sovereignty. The idols wailed and foundations trembled  BH07348

How excellent is the state of those souls whom neither the intimations of the divines nor the doubts of the theologians have prevented.  BH07310

Worst of all, in Tabriz the faithless mujtahid Mirza Hasan explicitly and clearly issued a fatva ordering the execution of all Baha'is.  AB09669

As long as these souls maintain their influence, one must close one's eyes to all virtues... these predatory souls and grazing beasts.   AB02365

they would deny it and cry out, saying that God has ended succession with the family of Muhammad and none can be raised up besides them   BH03512

Soon shalt thou witness the turning away of those who fancy themselves possessed of knowledge and count themselves among the guided ones.  BH05848

those who lay claim to knowledge without any proof from God and who pronounce judgment against His loved ones throughout months and years   BH09253

While like unto the pole of the divines of Iran, namely Shaykh Muhammad Hasan, he slipped from the path and returned to his former station.   BH09174

Then all the divines of Persia issued the decree for the shedding of His blood, and their followers - well known is what they said and did.   BH00665

The Lote-Tree beyond Which there is no passing, crieth out, by reason of the cruelty of the divines. It shouteth aloud, and bewaileth itself.  BH11461

The ministers and clergy do not accept the Message on account of their position in the Church. As stars in heaven they have become darkened.   ABU0468

O concourse of divines! By God the Truth, it behooveth you to be silent, for the Most Exalted Pen speaketh the truth between earth and heaven   BH07071

How many traditions and narratives concerning the Qa'im did they recite day and night, unaware that all were devoid of the ornament of truth.   BH02380

It was the divines of the age - by their decree the rulers acted, doing that which caused all things to lament and the Tablet and Pen to weep.  BH11881

every wearer of a white turban lamented - they who seized upon idle fancies and cast certainty behind their backs, following their own desires   BH06966

whereby the feet of the learned have slipped save those whom Thy mercy - which hath preceded the worlds of the seen and unseen - did encompass.  BH05092

Beware lest the doubts of the divines hold thee back from the Lord of Names. Leave them behind thee, turning unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH03855

Beware lest the doubts of the divines or the allusions of the jurisprudents prevent you from the horizon of God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment.   BH03119

As for those souls whom the might of princes and oppression of divines hath prevented from drawing nigh and associating, leave them to themselves.   BH09113

Although He remained forty days in the city of Tabriz the learned doctors did not condescend to approach Him and did not deem it right to meet Him.  AB00003

Today all the deeds of the divines of Iran - that is, the heedless souls - have not equaled and do not equal a single word of the friends of Truth.   BH09631

the minds of the learned ones who cast the ordinances of God behind their backs and followed their vain desires. They are indeed in manifest error.   BH07068

Beware lest what is with the divines veil thee. By the life of God! They have been heedless of that which [We have mentioned] in the nights and days.   BH05994

Blessed is the soul that became aware of that faction's loss and preserved itself from the whisperings of the turbaned ones through the name of Truth.   BH05613

It would be better if this matter occurred through consultation with and knowledge of the religious scholars of the nation and nobles of the government  ABU1602

Most of the thieves today are the turbaned ones who have prevented people from the most exalted horizon and who call them to their own vain imaginings.   BH06921

The Truth hath appeared, yet the divines have turned away from it and pronounced against it with manifest injustice, whereat both morn and eve have wept.  BH07625

The station of the divines and jurisprudents of Iran became evident and manifest to every person of insight. Until now they have not rested nor desisted   BH01877

Blessed is the soul whom neither the tales of the ignorant divines nor the vain imaginings of the heedless servants prevented from the Most Exalted Horizon   BH05624

If the government were not the protector of the oppressed, you would observe what the hypocritical ascetics would do and how the unjust clergy would behave   AB03376

A great confusion will take place in the churches... Some ministers will arise saying the Bahais are misguided. That is the day the Cause is going to spread.  ABU1952

Pay no attention to those who claim knowledge for themselves, and let not the size of their turbans frighten you, nor their wagging tongues and their outcries  BH11380

Though the divines of the age have become veils between Truth and creation, soon shall all confess their own loss and speak in praise of the loved ones of God.   BH01717

They remain heedless of the Source from which the justice and knowledge of the world have been made manifest, while clinging to ignorant and oppressive divines   BH04442

O concourse of divines! We have ordained knowledge that it might guide you to My path, yet ye turned away therefrom and waxed proud before the All-Wise One.  BH08489

Whenever the Light appeared and He Who conversed on Sinai spoke forth, the divines rose up against Him with such tyranny as caused the Faithful Spirit to lament.   BH03490

They play with their vain imaginings and perceive not. They worship the idols of their desires and understand not. Say: O concourse of divines! Die in your wrath.   BH05045

Several ignorant ones who have adorned their heads with green and white turbans have agreed and determined to spread such traditions and reports among the people.   BH00646

Blessed is he who has turned, whom the opposition of the divines did not prevent, and who has held fast to that which the veils of the theologians did not conceal.  BH06147

The divines and jurists of the earth are heedless and veiled, but thou, through His grace, hath attained unto His knowledge and found thy way to His straight path.  BH05992

the oppressors among Thy creatures who have adorned their heads with turbans and thereby prevented the people from arriving at the shore of the ocean of Thy oneness   BH05773

How many clergymen, ministers have no share in this! How many men of knowledge, many philosophers, princes, and kings! All these are deprived and you have attained.   ABU1769

Al-Baqir has passed judgment against the chosen ones of God and His trusted ones. Indeed, he has been designated as "the wolf" by the Pen of God, the Lord of creation.  BH08075

So momentous is this Cause that it hath been said: The divines of that age shall be the most wicked divines beneath the shadow of heaven, unto the end of the tradition.  BH11608

However, in the highest degree and the first station, it is the divines of Persia who have prevented the hapless souls from the Truth. These are the veils and barriers.   BH06610


Beware lest the clamor of the divines hold you back from Him Who is the Possessor of Names. They have cast the Book of God behind their backs, clinging to their own books.   BH06861

Cast behind your backs the divines of the age and hasten to the City of Divine Knowledge, whose gates have been opened by this Name through which the Resurrection has come   BH02423

Blessed is he, for in days when the most exalted among creation, namely the divines, have turned away and engaged in opposition, he hath turned to the most sublime horizon   BH00314

in every age and epoch when the divine Light shone forth from the heaven of God's Will, the leaders and divines of that age strove with utmost effort to extinguish that Light.  BH04006

Today the court is in the hands of wolves and demons, meaning the oppressive and hostile clergy who, like savage beasts and venomous snakes, attack the living-hearted friends   AB07505

You wrote about the clamor of the clergy - this is something established, that those souls cannot bear the spread of the divine fragrances and will resist with all their might.  AB00541

The divines of Iran who for years have claimed knowledge, excellence and wisdom are found to be the most lost, most lying and most ignorant of the world, save whom God willeth.   BH01417

Behold the divines of the earth: they were awaiting My days, but when I came unto them from the kingdom of My knowledge and the heaven of My utterance, they turned away from Me   BH06174

How many were the divines who claimed knowledge and wisdom, yet after the Sun of knowledge and wisdom dawned, all remained veiled and even turned away, save whom thy Lord willed.  BH06912

O concourse of divines! By God, the dwellers of the highest Paradise lament because of your tyranny. Fear God and be not of those who have denied God's favor after it was sent down.  BH01619

In brief, the divines of every age have arisen in opposition, and weak souls following those persons have closed their eyes to proof and evidence and turned toward the path of fire.   BH03847

How many a learned one hath been veiled by the veils of conjecture, and how many an ignorant one hath hastened and attained unto that which God, the Mighty, the Praised, hath willed.   BH06424

We manifested knowledge that the Known One might be recognized, yet when the appointed time was fulfilled and the Self-Subsisting appeared, every crafty scholar turned aside from Him.   BH07519

The most exalted and greatest among that people are, by their own account, the divines and jurists of the land, yet these souls are regarded by God as the most ignorant, base and lost.  BH11893

The cause of this was the turbaned ones. The helpless servants followed the words of those false ones and throughout the ages were pleased and delighted with their own deeds and words.   BH04527

Thy enemies - who issue religious decrees among the people in Thy Name while the very atoms testify to their turning away from Thy face and their following their own desires in Thy days   BH03504

certain heedless ones with white and green turbans led the servants astray and guided them to hell, depriving these helpless creatures from the Truth and preventing them from His verses   BH07605

The source and origin of tyranny have been the divines. Through the sentences pronounced by these haughty and wayward souls the rulers of the earth have wrought that which ye have heard.  BH04058

O concourse of divines from the people of the Bayan! Do ye act as acted the divines of the Qur'an when the Beauty of the Cause appeared with His name, the Most High, the All-Knowing?   BH01066

They turned away from Him, following every doubting learned one. The learned one is he who hath recognized the Known One, and the knower is he who hath turned towards the One Who is Known.   BH04977

Blessed are they who have turned unto Him - those souls whom the veils of the divines and the obscurities of the jurisprudents have not prevented from the Lord of Names nor deprived thereof.  BH08662

The priests are beasts of burden, hence in common parlance they kick out and lash out. Therefore you should have no expectation or hope from them. You must bear their taunts and persecution.  AB09233

the party that considered itself the most exalted of all parties and saw no peer or likeness for itself among religions issued the death warrant for God's chosen ones, nay for the Truth Itself   BH02914

and the turbaned ones have arisen with utmost hatred and enmity... neither do the wolves have claws and teeth, nor do the oppressors have arrows and spears, nor do the turbaned ones have spoils.   AB01716

They who are renowned for learning have debarred men from the Lord of the Return. These, verily, are among the most lost. They have clung to vain imaginings, turning away from the Self-Subsisting.   BH04162

How many are the divines who considered themselves the leaders and guides of the people, yet today are deprived of the recognition of Truth and remain lost and wandering in the wilderness of error.  BH10245

The fire of hatred hath been kindled in the breasts of the divines - they are the repositories of tyranny and the daysprings of iniquity. Through them have the eyes of the Concourse on High shed tears   BH04104

They would make mention of God from pulpits and in mosques, yet when the Dawning-Place of His Cause appeared, they arose in opposition, to such an extent that the heavens and earth lamented their actions.   BH07446

Whenever the Daysprings of the Cause and the Manifestations of the Divine Self appeared in the earth, the divines of that age became the greatest veil and prevented the people from turning and drawing near  BH07227

And what is meant by ephemeral conditions and colors are the divines of the age who are the cause of prevention. They are the greatest veil that hath intervened between the lights of the Face and humanity.  BH00439

Then did the learned flee from the field, for vain imaginings deluded them such that they denied God, the Lord of the Final End. They behold the signs of God yet deny them - thus do their souls entice them.  BH02696

Lost indeed are they who denied the signs of God and His testimony, and turned away from Him Who created them through the Most Exalted Word. Thus did their souls entice them, and they are in strange doubt.   BH09691

the learned ones who were deceived by vain imaginings in the days of God have slipped, and which has prevented them from this Straight Path. They are learned in their own sight, yet ignorant before thy Lord  BH04164

the divines of Iran... They have followed their own desires and taken them as lords besides God. They are indeed among the companions of the fire. They have devoured God's sheep and hamstrung the she-camel   BH03764

This is a day wherein the dwellers of Paradise lament because of the tyranny that hath appeared from the divines of the earth. They are indeed among the most lost in the Book of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH08078

The cause of veils and the source of barriers have been and continue to be the ignorant divines. They are the ones who changed God's bounty into denial and caused their people to dwell in the abode of perdition.   BH04056

if in previous incidents retribution had been enacted upon those few ignorant clergy, this time the Imam-Jum'ih and his assistants would not have committed such savagery, bloodthirstiness, ferocity and oppression  AB01232

From pulpits they reviled and cursed the Truth, and finally issued the decree for His death. By the life of God! They perpetrated that which neither Jews nor Christians nor any other parties in the world had done.  BH02845

O concourse of divines! Fear ye God and be not of the transgressors. Behold ye and remember what hath proceeded from you and from your like against Muhammad the Apostle of God, and before Him the Son of Mary   BH01710

When the divine morn's fragrance was diffused and the banners of the Cause were unfurled, all remained veiled from the Dayspring of divine light and the Dawning-place of divine revelation by the veils of the divines.  BH10080

The glory shining from the horizon of the heaven of My mercy be upon thee and upon them that are with thee and upon those whom neither the veils of the divines nor the ascendancy of the aggressive ones have hindered.   BH05283

Verily these people follow their divines who have prevented them from turning to the face of God, the Lord of all worlds. God shall soon seize them with His justice - then shall they find themselves in manifest loss.   BH05831

Thou art He Who, O my God, created the learned and the princes for Thy remembrance and praise and the service of Thy Cause in Thy lands. But when Thou didst manifest Thyself, they rose against Thee with such oppression  BH11888

By God! The first to deride Him were the divines of the earth and its doctors. The Books of God, both past and present, and that which hath been sent down from My Most Exalted Pen at this moment, bear witness unto this.   BH04333

Turban and cloak became the cause of the people's destruction. The helpless servants accepted from those heedless souls that which led them astray, and on the Day of Retribution they witnessed and heard its consequences.   BH02621

This is due to the insufficient proofs and non-luminous verses of the clergy. Consider what they have brought upon Iran. A people with such ignorant leaders and public affairs in their hands will not fare better than this.  AB04734

The great majority of the doctors set themselves to repudiate Him, decreeing slaughter and destruction, and they induced Husayn Khan Ajudan-bashi, who was the governor of Fars, to inflict a beating on the Bab's missionaries  AB00003

especially the turbaned ones who have fallen upon the nation like the illness of a nightmare. We hope that through the justice and good policy of Iran's leaders, it will be delivered from the dominion of these ignorant ones.   AB12158

Behold those who laid claim to knowledge: when the door of heaven was opened and He Who originated it came, they denied Him and followed their own imaginings. Say: O concourse of divines! Fear ye God and be fair in His Cause.   BH02181

certain turbaned ones among the ignorant divines have prevented ears from hearkening unto it. Whatsoever hath befallen the friends of God in His path hath come from the fire of the souls of this rebellious and tyrannical band.  BH06110

The cause of this debarring hath been and continueth to be the divines of the various parties. From monasteries and temples and mosques and churches do they seek Him and call upon Him, yet remain veiled and debarred from Him.   BH01293

God, exalted be His glory, through His name the All-Knowing, brought forth the divines of the earth from the realm of nothingness into the court of existence, that all might be guides to His path and dawning-places of His proof.  BH06380

With the lantern of Baha'u'llah in her hand, fearlessly she walks abroad while the night of ignorance is inky dark; the winds of prejudice howling; the hobgoblins of illiteracy intimidating; the fanaticism of the Mullahs surging  ABU0870

Yet the religious ministers of Washington have denounced us. At another time He said that the opposition of religious leaders is proof of the power and greatness of the Cause, for no one pays attention to an unimportant matter.   ABU3155

How many divines and jurists who considered themselves the most exalted of creatures were counted among the most abased after the dawning of the Sun of Truth. God hath made their highest ones lowest, and their lowest ones lowest.   BH05200

By "divines" in these passages is meant those souls who have prevented people from the shore of the Divine Unity. Otherwise, the learned one who acts upon his knowledge and the just sage are as the spirit to the body of the world.  BH01895

The words of the religious leaders have no influence, no effect. These physicians are more diseased than their patients. The spiritual leaders now have no faith, though they claim to have faith in order to secure their positions."   ABU0326

Beware lest the veils of the divines shut you out from the Most Exalted Horizon. Leave them behind you, turning unto the horizon from which hath shone forth that which was recorded in the Books of God, the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.  BH05816

In these days, praise be to God, the power of the Cause of God has broken the might of the traditional clergy, and the radiance of the Abha Kingdom has exposed the darkness of the leaders. Their severe domination is not like before.   AB01740

Although the center of the great sovereignty is benevolent and a refuge and shelter for every oppressed one, yet the ignorant divines are wolves, not shepherds - they are destructive, not nurturing; they are malevolent, not benevolent.  AB03994

"this Cause which hath caused the feet of the learned to slip and the hearts of the mystics to be perturbed--they who cast the Command of God behind their backs and followed their own imaginings without clear proof or illuminating Book."  BH04893

The cause of the world's turning away hath been the divines of the age. Had they reflected even a little, they would surely have been reminded by the turning away of the chiefs and would not have made claims to knowledge and certitude.   BH07596

The ignorant priests strive to prevent and destroy the Gulistan, so that respected bodies become prey for vultures and carrion birds, causing every wise person to be repelled by its sight and every conscious person to be greatly astonished.  AB03821

The Manifestations of the Cause have lamented over those who claimed knowledge, for none of them appeared but the learned of the age rose up against him, even as they have opposed in this day Him through Whom the ocean of knowledge hath surged  BH02868

Through them the Fountain of Divine Presence was barred and the Ocean of Reunion was veiled. These are the most great veils. Blessed is the one who is strong enough to rend them, powerful enough to tear them, and steadfast enough to remove them.  BH04621

The priests oppose you against the Word of God, but do not be saddened or grieved. This is their way in this worldly life. These priests are like the Pharisees in the time of Christ the Radiant, the Beautiful - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him.  AB01088

this agitation and clamor of the ignorant clergy on pulpits and these cries and shouts of "O our religion! O our faith!" in paths and places of worship are calls to the Cause of God. These souls are the heralds of truth, but they perceive it not.   AB00454

Most of His enemies shall be the divines." The pride of that party was that they believed in the immediate successor, yet they openly reviled and issued death warrants against Him through Whose word a thousand successors and guardians were created.  BH00242

Through My Name were the stations of the learned ones exalted, but when I rent asunder the veils and manifested Myself, they denied My signs, rejected My proof, and barred the servants of the All-Merciful from turning unto His praiseworthy station.  BH05814

Your sincere servants have been surrounded by factions of ignorant divines, Pharisees and foolish priests. The fires of hatred have flared and the tempests of animosity have blown against every lamp that has been kindled with the fire of Your love   AB00976

Behold the divines of this age who worship their own desires while imagining they worship the One, the All-Informed. He testifies with the tongue of His dawning Revelation that they have denied God when He came with the truth with mighty sovereignty.   BH08701


Like the divines of Iran who for years beseeched God, exalted be His glory, for the appearance of these days, yet when the horizon of the world became illumined and bright, all turned away and issued the decree for the shedding of His most pure blood.   BH04436

In all ages, the cause and reason for afflictions and calamities have been the ignorant divines. God protect us and you from their evil. They have pronounced judgment against Him Who created them with a word from His presence, and they perceive it not.   BH09134

Say to the divines on behalf of Baha: According to your claim, We are at fault. Why did you turn away from the Seal of the Prophets? What error appeared from the Spirit? What crime was manifest from Moses? Be fair, by God, and be not among the wrongdoers!  BH02754

Consider what befell in former ages the Daysprings of Divine Unity and the Manifestations of God's Cause. The divines of that age were the cause and reason, and by the decree of these vain imaginings there occurred what caused all things to weep and lament.   BH02590

yet conversely the denying people were all under the umbrella of knowledge with retinue and servants, and with perfect might and power denied the appearance of the Promised One in gatherings and churches, and arose with utmost effort to reject and show pride.   ABU1169

We beseech God to aid them to remain steadfast in this Cause whereby the feet of the divines of Iran who cast their God behind them and followed their desires have slipped. Lo! They are accounted among the most lost in God's Book, the Lord of the Mighty Throne   BH05126

Pride hath so seized them that they have denied God's favor after its descent. Nay, they perceive not! Soon shall they behold themselves in the darkness of their deeds and shall say: "Oh, what regret that we neglected our duty to God, the Lord of the Kingdom!"   BH08531

Say: O concourse of divines! By God, the Lord of Names hath come, He Who was mentioned in the Books of the Messengers. Cast away vain imaginings - the horizon of certitude hath appeared through the Luminary of the Name of your Lord, the Almighty, the Powerful.   BH07354

In the early years, not a single one of the divines showed acceptance or attained to the Cause of God. All arose in such obvious opposition as had never been heard of in creation. The divines and their followers, one and all, engaged in cursing and vilification   BH02653

Know that the religious leaders and ecclesiastics of Persia are far removed from justice and fairness. They have fabricated lies and calumnies, shown the utmost enmity, hatred and malice. They have emulated the actions of the Jewish rabbis in the time of Christ.  AB00455

On the other hand, that part of the community which are religious, their religious thoughts are antiquated and out of time with the spirit of the time. Therefore those who have the so-called religion are thinking of the God of battle rather than the God of Peace.  ABU0325

opposition to and persecution by religious leaders: "The evil divines and the heedless are occupied with themselves, day by day entangling themselves in difficulties. Sometimes they oppose the government, sometimes they begin arranging the means of worldly glory."  AB01934

Consider this favor a great one, for most of the divines who count themselves possessed of knowledge and learning have remained deprived of the Lord of Causes and the Ordainer of Nations, while thou in thy early youth wert confirmed in recognizing the Sovereign Lord.  BH06089

If they be sincere in their claims to be devotedly attached to Islam and to be the guardians of its interests, let them betake themselves to the fort of Shaykh Tabarsi and there demonstrate their capacity to defend the Faith of which they profess to be the champions.  BHU0012

Those divines, however, who are truly adorned with the ornament of knowledge and of a goodly character are, verily, as a head to the body of the world, and as eyes to the nations. The guidance of men hath, at all times, been, and is, dependent upon such blessed souls.  BH00005

For thousands of years, religious leaders have kept their vigils in temples and churches and have raised their voices in prayer. Yet when the Day of Revelation dawned, they became silent and scurried back to their nests, like insects and fell into a soundless slumber.  AB08746

The contention of the Muslim clergy is due to their fear of losing [the position of] leadership." Haji said, "During the days of Baha'u'llah, wherever the Muslim divines protested against the Faith, the Blessed Beauty would say, 'Give them some food. They want food.'"   ABU0546

In every Revelation the divines have turned away and the theologians have objected, save those on whose faces shone the radiance of their Lord, the Most High, the Most Great. Were it not for their turning away, none on earth would have turned away from the Manifestation.  BH11749

The cause and reason for this greatest deprivation and thick veil have been and continue to be the divines of the age, who have in truth seized the recompense of all deeds and prevented others from the ocean of light that surgeth before the face of the Lord of the Manifestation.   BH00438

Consider the misguided ones of the past who, with their white and red turbans, prayer beads and cloaks, and feigned asceticism and piety, afflicted the servants of God with such vain imaginings that on the Day of Judgment they all pronounced sentence against the Lord of the world.   BH04712

Whenever the divines have interfered in political affairs, it hath been detrimental to the common good. Yet, since at the time the leaders failed to attach any importance to this epistle and to divulge its contents, the divines seized the reins of authority and caused this mischief.   AB01413

The source and wellspring of corruption, and the dayspring and dawning-place of opposition, are the divines of the earth. Through the turning away of these heedless souls, the helpless people have remained deprived of the recognition of the Truth and forbidden from the Most Great Ocean.   BH07909

Reflect upon the pole of the divines, namely Shaykh Muhammad Hasan Najafi, who at the beginning of the Revelation was the chief divine of Persia. That aforementioned pole, together with all the Persian divines, engaged in cursing and denouncing the Lord of mankind and Master of the world.  BH02358

Had the rulers obeyed such persons who considered themselves leaders of the people, not a single person of truth would have been seen in any century of the centuries or any age of the ages. We beseech God to confirm the rulers of this age in not obeying such ignorant, heedless, satanic souls.   BH00307

Now too the evil clergy are calling the people to uprising... Although consultation is, by the text of God's Book, a legitimate command and foundation of God's Law, these souls' intention is not goodwill and implementation of God's Law - it is "a word of truth by which falsehood is intended."   AB02050

Yes, these very clergy who raised such outcries and outwardly claimed divine unity themselves uprooted the foundation of unity from its base. Through their interference in political affairs they destroyed the foundation of government and nation and overturned the basis of religion and divine unity.   ABU1746

The clouds of oppression have veiled the moons of justice and prevented their light from shining forth, and the greatest veil has come between the Sun of Justice and the world. The cause and origin of this oppression have been and are the divines. They are the mighty veil and the dense cloud.  BH06839

From time immemorial the religious leaders have deprived the people of the world from the purpose of creation. The greatest veil hath been and continues to be the divines at the time of Divine Manifestation. Their leadership hath prevented and continueth to prevent them from turning to the supreme horizon.   BH04282

Whenever they would hear the word "Qa'im" they would all rise up in reverence to His name and utter the words "May God hasten His relief." Throughout this time they failed to perceive what distress existed that they should seek relief for His Holiness from God. They were deprived of understanding this matter.  BH03266

They themselves, with turbans like Pharaoh's dome and staffs like the ropes of sorcerers, recline on couches of joy and pleasure, arranging themselves at people's tables, enjoying what souls desire, what eyes delight in, and what brings joy to hearts - in abundant blessings, complete rest and overflowing wealth.  AB00840

When the Prime Minister of Persia went to Qum, and thence conducted certain divines to Tehran while lavishing them with reverence... Even when the government had not yet aligned themselves with the divines, they perpetrated dire calamities. What will they do now that they treat the divines with such honour and respect?  ABU3703

We sent a message to the divines in the Holy Shrines saying that if they wished to understand Our Cause, We stood ready to manifest whatever they desired; and if their purpose was to create disturbance, then by God, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting, I would send but two men who would chase them all to the gates of Karbila.  BHU0027

For they cling to the cord of idle fancies and hold fast to the sources of tyranny and wickedness. They have taken every ignorant one to be learned, and every profligate to be pious. Today, should the most ascetic sage in all the world be shut out from the truth, he would be recorded in God's Book as profligate and wretched.  BH06699

You had also written that the turban-wearers are in utmost abasement. This matter was revealed from the Pen of the Covenant at a time when the clergy were at the height of their power - that this people would soon be afflicted with great humiliation. May God increase their abasement, degradation, obscurity and disappointment.  AB00878

when an orthodox priest or a Mullah or Rabbi would come to head these various sects, immediately the fire of hatred would be ignited by them. Because each one of them would think that if he anathemizes another religion, calling its followers as infidels and heathens, his own station will be raised in the estimation of his people.  ABU1394

Reflection is needed on the ranks of knowledge of the divines from the beginning of Islam until the Day of Manifestation. They searched for Him in Jabulqa while He appeared in Shiraz; they sought Him in Jabulsa while He was born of a mother. And if anyone spoke differently from what they held, they would pronounce him an infidel.   BH02415

Turn not unto the turbans and their size, but remember the days wherein the Spirit came, and the divines turned away from Him while he who caught fish turned towards Him. Then consider when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, came: the noble ones of the people and their divines turned away from Him, while he who sold dates believed in Him.   BH02472

The divines of Persia occupied themselves day and night with the mention of the Lord of all mankind, and from their pulpits they uttered "May God hasten His advent"; yet when the world was illumined with the lights of the Orb of His Manifestation, all arose in opposition, and finally pronounced the death sentence against His blessed Person.   BH00945

The primary cause preventing the servants in the beginning were and are the divines, although this most exalted Word hath been manifested through the Manifestations of His Most Beautiful Names, and most have heard it yet remain veiled therefrom. He saith: The divines of that time shall be the most wicked divines beneath the shadow of heaven.   BH07026

The leaders of religions were so bigoted and presumptuous that they awed and forced the simple, innocent people into these spurious customs. The Mohamadan Sheiks and Ulemas who were the barrels of pride and haughtiness while walking in the streets had their hands always out of the sleeves of their Abas ready to be kissed by the motley crowds.  ABU1228

However, at the time of the appearance of these Manifestations of the Cause, most of the people of the world were found to be heedless, veiled, turning away and denying. The cause and reason for these thick veils have been the divines of the age, as every person of insight and understanding hath testified and continues to testify to this fact.  BH03544

We make complaint unto thee concerning the manifestations of learning, for they have forbidden the servants from the Lord of creation, though they were created for this Remembrance whereby all remembrances have shone forth. Beseech thou God that He may cleanse the earth of these people, even as He hath cleansed most regions of their presence.   BH03535

The dust of heedlessness has so seized the servants that they distinguish not good from evil, nor right from wrong. The hand of the oppressor is raised high; they have shown and show no mercy to the weak. At all times they seek to increase their power, even though they witness that every power is followed by weakness and every might by impotence.  BH00263

God says in the Qur'an about these souls that they are "like hollow palm-tree stumps" - meaning that although they are tall and thick and bold and daring, they are like old and rotten palm trees. In every age they have existed and had no occupation except making trouble, and in the end they have fallen into the pit of eternal degradation and abasement.   AB01524

The divines have denied this Horizon from which hath shone forth the Sun of wisdom and utterance. By My life! They understand not. Had they known what they had wrought, they would have cast aside their inaction and run forth into the wilderness, crying out: "We have failed in our duty toward Thee, O Thou in Whose hand lieth the control of all existence!"   BH05804

When the appointed time came and the Dawning-Place of verses appeared, the divines of Iran turned away from Him and unjustly pronounced their verdict against Him - a verdict at which the Concourse on High lamented, as did those who circle round His mighty Throne. The cause of the waywardness of the helpless people has been and continues to be the divines.  BH11746

When educated people see the priests taking bread and wine in their hands, blowing a few breaths over them and saying that the bread and wine are now changed into the flesh and blood of Christ, or hear them saying that by making a confession before a priest their sins are pardoned, they will begin to despair of their religion and become totally irreligious.  ABU2993

Behold how the people, as a result of the verdict pronounced by the divines of His age, have cast Abraham, the Friend of God, into fire; how Moses, He Who held converse with the Almighty, was denounced as liar and slanderer. Reflect how Jesus, the Spirit of God, was, notwithstanding His extreme meekness and perfect tender-heartedness, treated by His enemies.  BH02046

So oft, then, as an Apostle cometh to you with that which your souls desire not, do ye swell with pride, and treat some as impostors, and slay others. That is to say that each time a Messenger hath come from God, either the clergy or the rulers have risen up in arrogance and pride. Some of them they have put to death, whilst others they have refuted and denied.  AB02091

They have ever been and continue to be intent upon seizing people's lives and property, as ye have witnessed and continue to witness. They have amassed wealth from the property of others and grown rich thereby, and they lord it over them. In truth they are the most abject souls in the world, yet outwardly they adorn themselves in various ways and say "Glory is mine!"  BH06467

Some scholars today have deprived the helpless people of the Euphrates of divine mercy and the fountain of heavenly grace, while barring themselves from the eternal outpourings of God. Others have succeeded in hearing the rustling of the Divine Lote Tree and the scratching of the Supreme Pen, and have arisen to serve the Cause in such wise that God Himself bears witness   BH03600

Say: O concourse of divines! The Most Exalted Pen doth move in the fields of Tablets. Is there any among you who can race with the Horseman of might in this arena? Nay, by My Self! They are like the lame one, having halted in the mire of idle fancies. Say: This is the Sun of knowledge which hath dawned from the horizon of utterance, despite you, O company of the wicked!   BH01490

Although they issued verdicts of unbelief against them and declared holy war and encouraged and incited Iranians to kill the despots, now they have become the favorites of the despots and to win their hearts, they have torn apart the gazelles of the desert of unity. Despite this oppression and transgression, they hoped for divine confirmation but inherited manifest loss.   AB00942

Whenever the horizon of the world was blessed with the lights of revelation, the divines of that age arose in utmost rejection and protest, and issued the death warrant for His pure blood. This is not the first Cause that has appeared in the contingent world. In all ages and centuries that which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise to lament has appeared from them.   BH02149

The sources of oppression today are the divines of the age, who have turned away from the truth and clung to their own idle fancies. I swear by the Sun of the horizon of divine unity that in former ages too, such souls were the cause of oppression, for through the decrees of heedless souls, the Manifestations of the glory of divine oneness have drunk the cup of martyrdom.   BH01998

Yet today thou mayest observe peoples who, in their temples and cloisters of this nether world, would perform a thousand prostrations every minute, yet are steeped in pride, are haughty and stubborn. They have no knowledge whatsoever of submissiveness and lowliness before the threshold of the Self-Subsisting Lord, nor do they seek to worship the King of Divine Sovereignty.  AB09394

Now since the doctors of Persia have no administrative capacity, they thought that violence and interference would cause extinction and silence and lead to suppression and oblivion; whereas interference in matters of conscience causes stability and firmness and attracts the attention of men's sight and souls; which fact has received experimental proof many times and often.  AB00003

How many a man of understanding hath been kept back from the truth by that which he had formerly committed, and how many a heedless one hath attained to it and said: "Praise be unto Thee, O God of the worlds!" Remember when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, came, he who was chief among the people in learning turned away from Him, while he who was but a shepherd believed in Him.   BH00414

The greatest cause and supreme reason for their opposition were the divines and religious leaders of the age, who in the early years rose up in hypocrisy and issued the decree for the shedding of the Most Pure Blood. The divines of the land of Shin and the land of Sad and other countries committed that which caused the eye of the world to weep and the Tablet and Pen to lament.  BH08144

It is clear and evident to every discerning and informed one that the company of the ignorant - meaning the divines of Persia - have each opened a shop, and love for this shop hath deprived them of both worlds. Soon shall they reach the recompense of their deeds. Among other things, their own children shall, after their fathers, curse them and seek to dissociate themselves from them.  BH01768

He was tall and heavily built, with a thick beard and corpulent frame, and wore an enormous turban. He greeted Us with a guttural voice and, upon being seated, began to recite intricate and incomprehensible Arabic verses. We said to him, Pray introduce yourself that We might know something of you. He replied, I am the seal of the ecclesiastics. We responded, God willing, God willing.  BHU0068

O concourse of divines! Have ye heard the shrill voice of the Most Exalted Pen and turned away, or were ye among the heedless? Ye would call upon God morning and evening, and lament your separation from the Lord of Names. Yet when the meeting came to pass and the sea of reunion surged, ye broke God's covenant and His pledge, and turned away from Him Who was the goal of all worlds.   BH02155

Consider the people of the Furqan who denied the All-Merciful when He came unto them with manifest sovereignty. They would wait through nights and days, mentioning Him in mosques and gatherings, yet when the promise was fulfilled and the Light shone forth from the horizon of Manifestation, they denied Him and pronounced judgment against Him with such injustice as caused every person of insight to lament.   BH02887

Say: O people, follow not your divines who bar you from the path of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. Leave them and what they possess, holding fast to that which you have been commanded by One All-Knowing, All-Informed. How many a divine from whom Satan seeks refuge with God, the Strong, the Powerful. These have denied God's proof and His evidence, and turned away from Him Who came to them with manifest authority.   BH07815


Observe the base rabble of the earth - one who was and is not worthy to serve even donkeys, him they took as their leader and by his decree martyred the chosen ones of God and His loved ones. O Javad! All the corruption in the world hath been and shall be from these ignorant ones who appear in the garb of knowledge. All are seated upon the thrones of self and passion, and speak that which God hath not permitted.   BH00641

The first opposers and enemies of His Holiness Christ were the Pharisees and Sadducees. They were the ones who sentenced Him to death. Why? Because their belief in Christ would have closed their Talmudic shops and Rabbinical stores out of which they distributed amongst the unsuspecting public wares of traditions and loads of dogmas the weight of which were lighter than air and heavier than the range of the Himalayan mountains!   ABU0891

How strange, utterly strange, that throughout the ages not one among the divines of that land was aware of the nature of His manifestation. They clung to unseemly tales and held fast to false stories. Throughout the nights and days, they were all worshippers of self and passion, devoted to mere names, holding fast to the cord of names while remaining heedless and veiled from their Creator, Provider, and the Source of their being.  BH11611

Now when the news of this beating, chastisement, imprisonment, and rigor reached all parts of Persia, learned divines and esteemed lawyers who were possessed of power and influence girt up the loins of endeavor for the eradication and suppression of this sect, exerting their utmost efforts therefore. And they wrote notice of their decision, to wit that this person and his followers are in absolute error and are hurtful to Church and State.  AB00003

In all ages and centuries, evil divines existed and were the source of corruption and rebellion of the people of obstinacy. Thus in the Qur'an it states: "And God led him astray despite his knowledge," and in another verse states: "They rejoiced in the knowledge they possessed." And in the tradition it states: "The divines of that time are the most evil divines under the shadow of heaven; through them appeared sedition and to them it shall return."  AB00284

The opposition of the clergy to this community is solely to acquire influence, power and fame in all matters, that others might fear them and show submission and obedience, and thereby they might hold the reins of affairs in their grasp of power and do whatsoever they wish. Observe that the conduct and way of these evil divines is neither religious nor aimed at promoting the Law of God; it is rather a means for attaining dominion, grandeur, wealth and glory.   AB00026

In truth, at the first station and primary rank, those who prevented others were souls who counted themselves as sources of utterance and dawning-places of knowledge. And when the light shone forth they became as veils. These are the greatest veils in the sight of God, the Possessor of Destiny. The heedlessness of such souls reached such a point that they occupy themselves with cursing and reviling God, exalted be His glory, from pulpits, and they perceive it not.   BH02161

From the time when the light of Oneness dawned from the horizon of divine mercy, many who were deprived became privy to mysteries, and many strangers became companions of the righteous. As eyes and ears have been opened, everyone has looked with the eye of insight and discovered the base intentions which the formal divines have harbored beneath the veil of religion. Consequently, every divine who fails to act on what he knows has begun to oppress and harm the dear friends.  AB03855

For twelve hundred years what did they bring upon the people? They reared all in vain imaginings and idle fancies until, on the Day of Manifestation, its fruit became evident to all the worlds. God curse them! They have done what neither Nimrod, nor Shaddad, nor the Christians, nor the Jews have done. They have pronounced judgment against Him through Whom the rivers of meanings and utterance have flowed in the contingent world and through Whom God's Law was established among His servants.   BH01579

No two are found to agree on one and the same law, for they seek no God but their own desire, and tread no path but the path of error. In leadership they have recognized the ultimate object of their endeavor, and account pride and haughtiness as the highest attainments of their heart's desire. They have placed their sordid machinations above the divine decree, have renounced resignation unto the will of God, busied themselves with selfish calculation, and walked in the way of the hypocrite.  BH00002

The divines of the age have forbidden the servants of God from entering the Egypt of divine knowledge. Through false utterances and through deceit and guile, they have deprived the people of the earth from the Euphrates of divine mercy. Each day they manifest a new opposition and each hour they appear with a fresh deception. In truth, they are the poisonous wind, for through the breath of these people the fruits of the trees of existence and their leaves have changed and fallen.  BH00517



The opposition of the clergy to this community is solely to acquire influence, power and fame in all matters, that others might fear them and show submission and obedience, and thereby they might hold the reins of affairs in their grasp of power and do whatsoever they wish. Observe that the conduct and way of these evil divines is neither religious nor aimed at promoting the Law of God; it is rather a means for attaining dominion, grandeur, wealth and glory. From such conduct and behavior naught but harm can result.  AB00026

All these veils are caused by numerous souls, and they are the ignorant divines who are known among the people by the name of learning. Neither do they themselves attain, nor are they content with the attainment of others. May God protect us and the company of the monotheists from these satans. But they have conceived vain imaginings. In their fancy, each day they cling to something that might be the cause of their glory among people, heedless that the Supreme Pen has struck out the word of glory that was associated with them.   BH00969

Those souls who in their lifetime, like Shaykh Muhammad-Hasan-i-Najafi and his like, held in their grasp the reins of the faith of the people of Iran, and who in their own estimation were occupied night and day in writing the Book of God and in rejecting and condemning all the peoples of the world - when the Morn of Hope dawned and the blessed Tree of Divine Unity sprouted forth, they assailed it with swords and finally wrought that which caused the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost Boundary to weep and the Most Exalted Pen to lament.   BH00962


Leaders of religion, in every age, have hindered their people from attaining the shores of eternal salvation, inasmuch as they held the reins of authority in their mighty grasp. Some for the lust of leadership, others through want of knowledge and understanding, have been the cause of the deprivation of the people. By their sanction and authority, every Prophet of God hath drunk from the chalice of sacrifice, and winged His flight unto the heights of glory. What unspeakable cruelties they that have occupied the seats of authority and learning have inflicted upon the true Monarchs of the world, those Gems of divine virtue!  BH00002

"The world is in prison and bondage through the leaders of religions who have taken the Spirit captive." "The Jewish rabbis have always tried to convince the people that their religion is the true one, that they are the chosen nation by being descendants of Abraham, and that they are the only people who can enter the Kingdom." "Likewise the Catholic priests. What they say to the people is this: that they possess the true religion, they are the accepted people of God and they alone can be saved." "Likewise the Shaykhs. They speak against the Christians and say: 'God had a Son and the people crucified this Son of God!' They say: 'What a foolish thing these Christians teach -- that God could have a Son and He, the Son of God, was crucified by human hands!'"  ABU1570

O Lord! Thou knowest that they have prevented Thy servants and creatures from recognizing the Manifestations of Thy Cause, the Daysprings of Thy Revelation, and the Sources of Thy inspiration. Thou didst send Muhammad, Thy Beloved One and Messenger, with Thy signs and Thy power. The divines of idols and the scholars of the Gospel and Torah rose against Him and opposed Him in such wise as caused the dwellers of the cities of Thy unity and the denizens of the kingdom of Thy oneness to lament. Before Him, Thou didst send the Spirit with a Book from Thy presence. The divines of that age rose against Him, among them Annas who sat upon the seat of knowledge, and after him Caiaphas who was the chief judge. O my God! Thou hast never sent a Messenger but that the divines of the age turned away from Him, pronounced Him an infidel, and ruled against Him with such injustice as caused Thy Most Exalted Pen to cry out and the people of the most sublime Paradise to weep.  BH06068

We sent a message to the divines in the Holy Shrines saying that if they wished to understand Our Cause, We stood ready to manifest whatever they desired; and if their purpose was to create disturbance, then by God, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting, I would send but two men who would chase them all to the gates of Karbila." He said: "We told them to have all the divines unite and request a single verse, stipulating in writing that if what they requested was manifested within an appointed time, they would cease their persecution and oppression, and if it did not appear, they could pronounce Our Cause false. But not a single one came forward.  BHU0027

When the promise came to pass and the Dayspring of Manifestation shone forth, the divines turned away from Him until they pronounced judgment with such tyranny as caused the Concourse on High to lament  BH03904

The divines of Iran throughout ages and centuries clung to vain imaginings and held fast to idle fancies, for they became manifestations of that which the All-Merciful had not sent down in the Qur'an.  BH08570

How many are the possessors of knowledge and learning who today walk in the paths of fancy and vain imaginings, although all have acknowledged and do acknowledge the appearance of the Truth and the advent of the Promised One with the Cause of God.   BH05257

Rejoice in that thou hast been given to drink from the cup of everlasting life and hast attained unto that which they who have wound their heads in white cotton to display their learning have failed to attain, and who remained heedless of the Day wherein the Sun of utterance hath shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Choosing.  BH11737


This is a Day wherein the Spirit lamenteth by reason of that which the hands of the divines have wrought, they by whom the eyes in every age have been made to weep.   BH05759


the religious leaders and mujtahids are far removed, blind, and banished from the court  AB10429

For twelve hundred years and more they clung to names and remained heedless of divine unity, and after beseeching and supplicating through nights and days, when the light of the Manifestation shone forth from the horizon of the Will of God, exalted be His glory, the divines reviled Him, and through the decree of those heedless souls, that Essence of Oneness was martyred.   BH01434

How many were the divines who, at the appearance of the Lord of Names, arose in opposition... Although in this Most Great Revelation many of the divines have been honored with recognition of the Lord of Eternity, yet most were seen to be opposed and in denial. These heedless souls are the dawning-places of suppositions and idle fancies, and the heedless among the servants, through following these souls, remained veiled and deprived of the divine revelation and heavenly inspiration.   BH04189

Yet when the dawn appeared, every deceitful dissembler denied it.   BH08806

whom the censure of every denier and deceiver hath not kept from the Path  BH06245

those whom the clamor of the divines hath not prevented from My straight path  BH05961

The Book of God hath been sent down in truth, yet the people understand not.   BH09980

But when He came they disbelieved and turned away, except such as God wished   BH07359

Beware lest the utterances of the divines withhold you from the Lord of Names.   BH06545

from which the ears of the divines and the hearts of the eloquent ones were debarred  BH07797

on a day wherein the divines of Thy age and the clergy of Thy lands have turned away   BH08651

Follow not your desires nor your divines and what you have taken from their idle fancies.   BH05098

Yet the deaf of the world remain deprived and forbidden. Blessed are ye, and woe unto them!  BH11162

How many of the divines, theologians and men of learning are seen to be deprived on this day  BH07435

...on a Day wherein the hearts of the learned were troubled and the feet of the mystics did slip  BH11171

Do ye worship the calf and leave behind you the Lord of eternity? Ye are but in manifest error.   BH08622

whereby the foot of every veiled scholar hath slipped and every deprived mystic hath gone astray   BH06672

neither the crushing doubts of the learned nor the tempestuous allusions of the divines may move me   BH03281

Nevertheless, when the world was illumined by the Sun of Manifestation, they turned away and objected   BH05351

They have cast the principles of God behind their backs and followed the principles of their own selves  BH07788

Consider what the Jewish rabbis and Pharisees did in the time of Christ. These clergy will do the same.  AB04047

when it appeared, the divines of the earth denied it, and through their denial the people denied it also  BH03580

The divines of every age have ever forbidden people from turning to God and commanded them to turn away.  BH02754

But when He came with the truth, they turned away from Him and denied God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH09004

Those who have turned away are as ones asleep, comprehending nothing, and are numbered among the ignorant   BH08156

Thus doth the Spirit teach thee at a time when He is encompassed by the wolves of polytheism from every side.  BH01761

We have, for a while, tarried amongst this people, and failed to discern the slightest response on their part.  BHU0062

Blessed is the handmaiden who hath turned unto Him at a time when every learned one hath turned away from God.   BH10599

in days when the men of the earth, both divines and theologians, are deprived and forbidden from His knowledge   BH06812

They have been held back from the Lord of the Day of Judgment by the words of those possessed of vain imaginings   BH03827

To prove their contentions they cling to the Book while remaining heedless of and turning away from the Mother Book.  BH03266

"They make mention of God at morn and eventide, yet deny Him through Whom the fountains of wisdom have gushed forth"   BH07791

They refused to see me or hear my message. I said, 'I will put it in writing if you will read it.' They still refused   ABU3082

They have lost who followed every idle clamourer, who hath debarred them from God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen.  BH09453

when the divines and theologians of the earth turned away, save whom Thy Will hath desired and Thy Purpose hath chosen.  BH02566

numerous veils, namely the divines, have debarred the helpless people from this most great bounty and this supreme grace  BH09693

Among them were some who heard and turned away, and some who hastened and said: "Here am I, O Thou Revealer of verses!"   BH05479

in days wherein the ears of the divines, the mystics, the learned ones and the dead were debarred and deprived of hearing   BH09172

Their leadership deluded them to such degree that they denied what they had believed in and manifested evident rebellion.   BH01023

the divines and mystics of Persia rose up in opposition and issued decrees for the shedding of the blood of the sincere ones   BH08025

This is a Day wherein the assemblage of the divines hath been scattered and the hearts of the theologians have been troubled   BH04265

Ye have done unto My person that which no one hath done unto anyone, and ye have said that which even the idolaters said not   BH02739

They have cast the Book of God behind their backs, following those who have denied God when He came with manifest sovereignty.   BH02626

yet the immature ones of the world have rejected Him and have uttered that which no idolater ever spoke and no oppressor ever voiced   BH05531

who have cast behind their backs the ordinances of God and have taken that which they were bidden by the Dayspring of vain imaginings   BH09930

These people who have lived in 'Akka for fifty years have not realized the importance of the Cause of God - they are totally deprived.  ABU0784

How many learned ones desired to attain My presence in ages past and in this age, yet when I manifested My Self they turned away from Me   BH07308

"Yet the divines of this age and the theologians of this time have denied the Interlocutor of the Mount and have forbidden divine rights."  BH07385

They have cast the counsel of God and His Command behind their backs and have accepted what they were bidden by every remote ignorant one.  BH06963

Yet when the Day of Revelation dawned, they became silent and scurried back to their nests, like insects and fell into a soundless slumber.  AB08746

They turned away and denied, clinging to the cord of idle fancies - lo, they are among those who cherish vain imaginings in the Book of God   BH05389

"Those who have veiled themselves from God, these have been heedless of their Lord's remembrance and the angels near the throne curse them"   BH02017

Shaykh Muhammad Hasan Najafi, who was the most learned of Iran's divines, was deprived of recognition of the Dawning Place of the verses of God   BH08299

They acknowledge the Book yet turn away from the Mother Book. They have ever been the cause of preventing the servants from the supreme horizon.  BH01895

Those who considered themselves the most learned and accomplished among all the peoples of the world issued a decree to shed the Most Pure Blood.   BH05356

Today every soul must reflect upon the words and deeds of that sect, lest they be deprived of the eternal outpourings by the crowing of new roosters.  BH08653

How many a learned one pronounced judgment against the Intended One, and how many an illiterate one turned to Him and responded to the Lord of Lords!   BH10515

Nevertheless, none have heeded it, and the children of the Spirit are seen to be withered and dejected - nay, dead - except those whom God has willed   BH03915

"The third is those who have heard the Message of the Kingdom but have not accepted it. The fourth is those who have not yet heard of this Revelation."  ABU2898

Among the people are those who heard Thy call and turned to Thee, and among them are those who turned away and denied Thy favor and disputed Thy verses   BH07220

None shall enter Paradise unless he be a Jew or a Christian - by God, such are their vain imaginings, and the decree hath been known in the Mother Book.  BB00002

They have denied Him Whom they mention night and day, and have pronounced judgment against Him without any clear proof from God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH03167

"This is the Day of God, but the people are in grievous doubt. They have cast certitude behind their backs and followed vain imaginings and idle fancies."  BH10347

Muhammad the Apostle of God and the denizens of the most exalted Paradise have lamented their deeds, yet the people remain wrapped in veils and barriers.   BH06174

We ordained the sciences for the knowledge of My Name, the Self-Subsisting, yet when He appeared in truth, every imagined learned one turned away from Him   BH04046

They deny God, then hasten to their mosques. They slay the children of the Messenger, then declare "We believe in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting."   BH08884

How many are the divines, the great ones, the princes and the mighty ones who are deprived, their names erased from the scroll of acceptance and recognition  BH06515

Every tongue hath testified to the Manifestation of God, yet the idolaters hear not. The Spirit calleth out before all faces, yet the people comprehend not.   BH06246

"Among the people are those who have heard and responded, and those who have turned away in such wise as to pronounce judgment against God, the Lord of lords."  BH07136

the divines and rulers denied Him and rose up against Him, inflicting upon Him that which caused the very atoms of creation to lament and weep at His oppression.   BH06329

How many a mystic turned away from the Known One, how many a learned one cast the All-Knowing behind his back and waxed proud before God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH03103

The Bab (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) left no veil that would cause anyone to hesitate for even a moment on the Day of Manifestation, but what use was it?  ABU2347

Fear thou God, but not the priest. Give to the executioner thy head, but not thy heart. Let thine abode be under the stone, but seek not the shelter of the cleric.  BH10203

Among the people are those who have turned unto them and those who have turned away from them, until they pronounced judgment against them with manifest injustice.   BH10015

observe how in this mighty Dispensation the divines of the earth, the pillars of religion, sought to extinguish the manifest light and arranged feasts of opposition  AB06869

While the Manifestations of God are still alive, the people do not appreciate their value, they curse and execrate them; but after their ascension they worship them.  ABU3309

The peoples and nations of the world cling to vain imaginings and hold fast to idle fancies, for they have been raised under the shadow of those who follow delusions.   BH05433

How many were the souls who awaited the Manifestation, yet when the horizon of the world was illumined by the Most Great Light, all remained veiled save whom God wished  BH07849

Nevertheless, when the Morn of the promised Day dawned from the horizon of the heaven of Revelation, all turned away save whom God, the Lord of the worlds, did choose.   BH07321

When that divine Sun of the world shone forth, they blindly turned away their gaze, and when that peerless Sapling of the heavenly garden cast its shade, they all fled.  AB06992

Strange that in the beginning of all the past dispensations only common, ordinary people embraced the Cause - those souls who had no outward titles or stations in life.   ABU2023

And whoso thereafter turneth away, he is of them that have denied My proof and gainsaid My testimony and been heedless of My sovereignty that hath encompassed the worlds.   BH10834

For in every age and century, when the Sun of Truth appeared, the divines, mystics and rulers rose up in opposition and exerted their utmost to extinguish the divine light.  BH10225

They pronounced judgment against those who attained the lights of the Face, shed their blood and plundered their possessions. By the life of God! They are in manifest loss.   BH08701

Cast aside your ignorant divines, turning unto God, the One, the Single, the All-Subduing over what was and what shall be. That which ye possess will profit you not this Day   BH05829

Are they who turned away based upon anything? Nay, by this exalted station! They are worshippers of idols, moved by the winds of passion - they are among the distracted ones.   BH01718

When the verses come unto them, they turn away therefrom, and when the Almighty appeareth, they raise the cry of the impious. They are like unto dogs that pant in every state.  BH11796

Whoso halteth in this Cause hath not believed in any of the Messengers - thus hath the matter been inscribed in the Tablet. Leave those who disbelieve to their vain imaginings   BH08866

Yet when the horizon of the world was illumined by the lights of that Day, every learned one was misled by knowledge, and every mystic was veiled by fancies and idle imaginings.  BH00929

Make the friends aware of past vain imaginings, that they may not again be debarred from the straight path by green and white turbans and remain deprived of the Most Great Ocean.  BH02358

Where are the learned ones and the mystics, and where are they who turned away from the Truth, the Knower of things unseen? Today every learned one hath clung to vain imaginings   BH01793

Beware lest the doubts of the divines withhold you from drawing nigh unto the Lord of all being, and beware lest the veils of them that croak hold you back from this momentous News   BH01035

The divines of the age have been and continue to be the cause of the prevention of the servants and the source of oppression. Through their opposition all turn away from the Truth.   BH04118

The tyrants and pharaohs, in their primary station, are the divines of the age who have taken the reins of the people and command them according to the dictates of their own desires.   BH06846

How many a learned one has been prevented by his knowledge from the Self-Subsisting, and how many an unlettered one has heard and hastened until he attained the praiseworthy station!   BH03980

Yet when it dawned from the horizon of God's Will, all remained occupied with their own doubts and fancies in the wilderness of uncertainty and suspicion, and thus were veiled from it   BH06031

The divines of the earth who cast behind them the command of God and followed vain imaginings and idle fancies have wronged Me. The Messengers of God aforetime lamented their oppression  BH02268

All the peoples of the world believe themselves to be gazing toward the Truth and to have attained His knowledge, yet the Truth hath not acknowledged this, nor doth He accept these claims   BH08163

the divines and princes turned away from Him and uttered that which caused the dwellers of the most exalted Paradise and those who circle round the Throne at eventide and at dawn to lament   BH07517

Their vain imaginings have barred them from God, the Lord of all worlds...the divines who broke God's covenant and His testament, and pronounced judgment against Him with manifest injustice.   BH01179

The people of the Qur'an, who in truth are nourished at the breast of ignorance, have not attained maturity - nay, would that in their infancy they had been nourished with the milk of fairness.  BH00460

Among the people are those who have hearkened to His most sweet call and turned toward the Supreme Horizon, and among them are those who have turned away and denied God, the Mighty, the Loving.   BH08942

They heard the call but denied it, disputing the verses when they were sent down from the presence of the Ancient Revealer. They are those who denied God's proof and evidence throughout all ages   BH06646

For twelve hundred years the people of the Furqan (Muslims) clung to vain imaginings and idle fancies, depriving the servants of God from all the infinite divine bounties and heavenly sustenance   BH05094

while the people of learning - meaning the divines of Iran - and the possessors of wealth and the holders of authority are deprived of the Most Great Ocean and barred from the straight divine path   BH05588

Through this the idol hath wailed and every remote scholar hath cried out. They denied the favor of God after its descent and disbelieved in the All-Merciful when He came with manifest sovereignty.   BH10767

Until the people become aware of the falsehoods of the past, they will not bear witness to the truth of this manifest Day. And even should they acknowledge it, it would be merely through imitation.   BH02380

The divines of the earth today are debarred from the Most Exalted Horizon [...] Throughout ages and centuries they proclaimed from pulpits "O Qa'im!", yet when He was made manifest they martyred Him.   BH08580

Look and remember the one named Abu Dharr. He was tending the sheep of the people when he believed. The learned ones denied him, yet today every possessor of manifest knowledge takes pride in his name   BH02997

The divines of the earth who counted themselves the most learned, the most excellent and the most exalted among all creation have been observed to be deprived of this most great bounty and supreme gift   BH09799

The Jewish divines pronounced sentence for the crucifixion of the Spirit (Christ), and the divines of the idolaters, the Torah and the Gospel for the murder of the Lord of all beings in the land of Sad.  BH04058

We have sent down unto them the food of utterance out of the heaven of understanding and they have cast it behind their backs turning aside from God, the Great Giver, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.   BH06324

The first to deny God and His party were the divines of the age who broke God's Covenant and His Testament and disbelieved in Him when He came to them with the standards of light and the banners of verses.  BH01923

This is not the first Cause they have opposed and from which they have turned away. Consider when We sent Our Messengers - they rose against them with hypocrisy, having cast the Covenant behind their backs.   BH07446

Blessed is the speaker whom the roaring of the divines did not deter, and blessed is the one who turned toward God, whom neither the opposition of the clergy nor the might of rulers held back from the Truth.  BH03577

yet the wicked are in great drunkenness, having been intoxicated by the wine of pride in such wise that they have been debarred from the Possessor of the Manifestation Who hath come with manifest sovereignty   BH07323

Say: O people! If ye believed in Ali aforetime, by what proof do ye slay Him Who hath come to you with the Kingdom of God and His dominion, then with God's power and His mercy which hath preceded all worlds?   BH04296

while the divines of Iran who for long years and successive centuries deemed themselves the most exalted, most great, most most pious, most noble and most learned, failed to recognize the Sun of Manifestation   BH06523

How many learned men have been barred from the direction of the Known One, while this animal hath approached the All-Merciful and hearkeneth to that which no created thing between the heavens and earth can equal.  BH11812

Yet the blind ones, being gathered without sight or insight, remained veiled and deprived from beholding the Sun of Truth with its mighty rays. For the sightless eye is deprived of the bounty of the morning sun.   AB04874

O concourse of divines! Be silent that ye may hear that which hath been sent down from the heaven of utterance from your Lord, the All-Merciful. This is better for you, as testify they who are endowed with insight   BH02636

O Ja'far! We have guided the servants unto Our Most Great Path and have consigned the company of divines to the fire by the command of Him Who is the Lord of destiny. Verily, thy Lord is the Almighty, the All-Powerful.   BH00728

Nevertheless, most of the people of the world are seen to be deprived and forbidden from attaining unto the Ancient King, and some who fancy they have turned towards Him are seen to be disturbed by the slightest breeze.   BH07595

All the servants clung to their religious leaders among the divines and never turned to the Essence of Divine Unity, although He appeared with such compelling proof that all found themselves powerless to produce the like thereof.   BH00811

Yet the birds of night remain heedless of it, nay, turn away from it, for they were not and are not worthy to behold it or capable of facing it. They are of the essence of darkness, returning to it and intimately associated with it.   BH08658

Have ye found any truth in what the people of the Furqan (Qur'an) say? Nay, by your Lord, the All-Merciful! They are among the liars. Ponder what they say concerning the news of the Qa'im, and thou shalt find them in manifest error.   BH02704

Observe how many distinguished ones and learned men are seen today intoxicated with the wine of pride, such that they have turned away from the Truth and are debarred and deprived from the Sun of Reality which shineth at its meridian.  BH04312

The cause and reason for preventing the servants from the supreme horizon were the divines of the age. This matter is clear to all. At first they engaged in cursing and execration, and finally they all issued the decree for His death.  BH06859

The dwellers of the highest Paradise lament their tyranny, while they move their tongues in remembrance of God amongst the people. Say: By God! He is innocent of you and your mention - to this testifies the Mother Book which is with Him   BH02983

Reflect upon the time of the appearance of the Divine Messengers and the Emissaries of God - most people did not even count those Dawning-Places of Divine Unity and Holy Manifestations among the believers, let alone any station above that.   BH03621

Consider the Manifestation of the Prophet at the height of divine bounty and what transpired, and marvel not at what befell your Beloved, for Truth revolves with Truth as paradise revolves, and turns with it as a shadow turns with the sun.   BB00662

Some among the people are observed to be deprived of the warbling of the Dove of utterance which singeth upon the highest branch of the world, being occupied instead with the buzzing of flies. Each day they cling to a rope and grasp at a hem.   BH00541

The divines of the age have been and are the cause of the heedlessness of souls and the veiling of servants, even as hath been sent down from the Most Exalted Pen in tablets past and future - that which sufficeth them that are endowed with vision.   BH01665

Pay no attention to those who claim knowledge for themselves, and let not the size of their turbans frighten you, nor their wagging tongues and their outcries when they deny the outpouring from this Dawning Cloud that is exalted, mighty and luminous  BH11380

Abu-Jahl supposed that he was upholding God's religion by turning away from a Face through which the heavens and earth were illumined. Thus was the matter decreed, but the people comprehend not. They cut off the hand of God, then rejoice in their seats.   BH10670

Among the people are those who have remained heedless and turned away from the melodies of God, denied His verses and fled from His presence like frightened wild asses fleeing from a lion - God, the Most High, the Exalted, the Gracious, the Desired One.   BH01483

Glory be to God! One like Shaykh Muhammad Hasan Najafi, who was the pivot of the divines of Iran, was observed to be the first to turn away. The actions of other divines are clear and evident. They knew not even a needle's worth of the truth of the Cause.  BH08144

Consider when the Sun of the Cause dawned from the horizon of Batha, the divines and men of learning opposed Him, and before that when the Spirit appeared with the signs of thy Lord, the Mighty, the Great, the greatest among the people turned away from Him.   BH01825

Yet when the horizon of the world became illumined and resplendent with the Light of Manifestation, all arose to extinguish the divine light. Both learned and ignorant engaged in cursing, and finally they issued the decree for His execution and shed His blood.  BH01893

Despite this, the people of these parts are so heedless and veiled that some count these servants among the dissidents. We seek refuge in God! They do not consider as being among the faithful one through whose will the religion and path of God have been uplift.  BH03000

When they are asked by what sign they believed in God, they say "the verses." Yet when the Beauty through Whom were manifested the Manifestations of the past from a beginning that hath no beginning appears before them, they are overwhelmed by the dust of the fire  BH02005

In no age have the ignorant ones known as divines ever been guided to the truth, as was observed in the year sixty [...] Moreover, the Point of the Bayan declareth that on the Day of His manifestation, the divines shall become as nothing, dead, and non-existent.   BH00646

The cause and reason for the deprivation of the servants are the divines of the age, who have prevented these helpless souls from the imperishable, matchless, never-failing crystal waters of the Eternal One, and have occupied them with unseemly words and allusions.  BH00025

The cause and reason for this are the divines of the age. We testify that they are numbered among the ignorant in the Perspicuous Book. They are honored by the name of Truth yet turn away from Him; they are known by His name yet remain heedless and veiled from Him.  BH05216

For thousands of years, religious leaders kept their vigils in temples, churches and monasteries, engaged in remembrance and prayers for long ages. Yet when the Day of Revelation dawned, they fell silent and, like insects, crept into holes of silence and obscurity.  AB08746

How many divines and jurisprudents are today deprived of the lights of the Sun of Truth! Though they have been and are engaged in the mention of God throughout the nights and days, yet on the Day of His Manifestation all were found to be veiled save whom God willed.  BH02238

The primary cause and reason for this opposition were the divines of the age. Whenever the ocean of knowledge appeared, the sun of bounty was manifest, and the heaven of Revelation was raised up, all became as veils and prevented the servants from the Lord of Creation  BH02500

By God's life! They answered not God's call when it was raised up, nor did they turn toward the Horizon when it shone forth. They followed their own desires, turning away from God, the Lord of all men. By night they took counsel together and by day they openly denied.   BH06452

Thou hast been shielded from the most great terror and hast succeeded in drawing nigh unto the Most Great Bounty at a time when all men were prevented from recognizing the eternal King by the interposition of the veils of outward glory, namely the divines of this day.   BH03944

Though all were engaged in uttering the praise of God throughout all days and nights with utmost desire and longing, yet at the time of His Manifestation all remained veiled from the Sovereign of the Cause by their own imaginings and were deprived of His divine verses.   BH03467

He is among those who turned unto God on a day whereon the faces of the ascetics who had visited the House were darkened, and who, when He came Who fulfilled through His utterance "the House," denied Him, even to the point where they pronounced their verdict against Him.   BH00414

The Truth, exalted be His glory, hath appeared with utmost kindness and favor, yet the people persist in utter opposition. Some of the friends, influenced by the clamor of the ignorant divines, have seized them. By the life of God! The people remain in their ancient error.  BH02644

Do not be surprised when the objections of the people against the Clear Book reach your ears, for this is the way of the heedless ones. They said: "These are but tales of the ancients." Had they any share in the meanings of the Book, they would not have uttered such nonsense.   AB03841

For twelve hundred years and more they were occupied with dispute and contention, awaiting the Day of Manifestation. Yet when the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of God's Will, they committed that which no oppressor had ever committed. To this day they occupy pulpits cursing.  BH00333

Even as a thousand two hundred years of worship, lamentations, anticipation and wailing in mosques and from pulpits profited not the Shi'ih sect, whether divines or followers. For had it profited them, they would not have pronounced judgment against and reviled the Lord of the world.   BH03163

Thy likeness is as those who cast the Most Great Ocean behind their backs and gathered around a pond. Verily thy Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. He who led thee astray is in the fire. Soon shall he who misled him join him. Thus hath the matter been decreed in a luminous Book.   BH02232

The divines issued the decree for the shedding of His most pure blood, and the preachers opened their tongues in curse and execration. And now they speak from pulpits that which causeth the hearts of the sincere ones and those near to God to burn, and the tears of the monotheists to flow.  BH11611

The divines of the earth, who are accounted as ignorant in the sight of God, are the greatest veil for mankind. Blessed is the one whom this veil hath not withheld, who through the power and ascendancy of the Most Great Name hath rent it asunder and turned towards the horizon of God's Cause.   BH01418

Verily, those who have disbelieved, were God to bring them all the knowledge of what was and what shall be and what is hidden, or were the angels of the highest heaven to come unto them, they would never believe in Him, for God hath, by His might and power, deprived them of the spirit of faith.   BH02903

They have cast aside truth and its sovereignty and have taken hold of idle fancy and its traces. Had the people recognized God's purpose in this Most Great Revelation, they would have circled round it and acted upon that which hath appeared from Him and been sent down from the heaven of His will.   BH02816

For a thousand years or more, these deluded souls have fixed their gaze upon an imaginary person in an imaginary city, clinging to him; yet after the appearance of the Most Great Luminary, only a few rent asunder the veils of idle fancies, while the rest remained bound by the same vain imaginings.   BH01130

They who have attained the lights of mystic knowledge - these are accounted among the people of Baha in a hidden Tablet. Blessed is he who hath turned to the Intended One, and whom the affairs of the Jews who denied the signs of God and His proof when He came with manifest sovereignty did not hinder.  BH09939

For twelve hundred years they claimed to love and beseeched God, glorified be His majesty, for the meeting with the Promised One by night and day. Yet when the clouds were rent asunder by the finger of divine will and the Day-Star of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the world, all turned away.   BH00463

they who, when a herald came unto them from God, denied him and said: "This is naught but a man possessed," and who, when he showed them that which their souls and hearts were powerless to produce, cried out and said: "This is naught but manifest sorcery." Thus did Our heedless servants speak in every age   BH02992

"The deeds of the high priests have caused the people to be estranged from Almighty God. Instead of evincing self-denial they have given themselves up to inordinate desires and strayed far from the path of the Lord God. They have grievously erred, yet fondly imagine themselves to be treading the right Path."  BH02950

Neither the occupants of pulpits nor the turban-wearing divines who violated the Covenant and Testament, who denied God's proof after its appearance and His bounty after its revelation, could prevent Him. They perceive not. They follow vain imaginings and know not. They drink fetid water and understand not.   BH00928

In this connection, after presenting the matter, they stated that association with such souls, if it leadeth to their awakening and remembrance, is praiseworthy; otherwise they merely report to their like that so-and-so came, delegated and accepted, and such calumnies as the honored Observer himself knoweth.   BH01302

The cause of this deprivation has been and continues to be the leaders of the people - those who, without divine authority, have taken unto themselves educators and guides. They have forsaken truthfulness and clung to calumnies. They speak according to their desires and hold fast to that which is reprehensible   BH06014

Among the people are those who remain veiled by what the people possess and do not become certain of God's testimony - they are indeed among the lowly ones. And among them are those who wander in the wilderness of the Caliphate and by its mention are prevented from its Owner - they are indeed in manifest error.   BH05082

They who have turned aside have violated God's Covenant and His Testament, and have denied Him Who came unto them with that which was sent down aforetime upon the Prophets and Messengers. Say: O concourse of divines! By what thing have ye believed in God and His signs, and by what cause have ye turned away from Him  BH04587

How many were the divines who remained deprived of the Water of Life, and how many were the mystics who were veiled from the rays of the Sun of inner meanings, and how many were those endowed with sight who are recorded as sightless in God's Book, and how many were those possessed of ears who are forbidden to hear.  BH03751

They have cast the signs of God behind their backs, following every doubtful idolater. We have sent down for all on earth that wherewith the trees and fruits and mountains have been adorned, yet the people persist in discord and dissension, following vain imaginings while turning away from the Dawning-Place of knowledge.  BH06648

When the Day of God appeared and the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the world, all were found to be veiled. Nay, rather, they arose in opposition, and ultimately pronounced sentence of death upon the King of existence, before the mention of Whose name they had bowed down. Such is the state of these souls.  BH06380

These souls recognize the bounty of God, then deny it. It would have been good if someone had examined the letters this person previously wrote to Qazvin, and likewise his poems. Whatever they do, they do to themselves. Soon shall their leaders and followers, their great ones and small ones find themselves in manifest loss.  AB04593

Each group hath adorned an ignorant one with the name of learned and made him their leader. Whatever proceedeth from him they attribute and continue to attribute to the truth. They remain heedless that in all ages such souls have been the cause of the veiling of mankind and have prevented people from the ocean of divine mercy.   BH06109

The people awaited the divine Day in such wise that in the nights and days they implored and beseeched with utmost humility and supplication the presence of the immortal King, seeking His meeting. Yet when the Sun of Revelation dawned from the horizon of Will, all remained veiled, bewildered and heedless, save whom God willed.   BH05215

"And when the Pledge was fulfilled and the Promised One appeared, He was rejected by such of Thy servants as profess to have believed in Him in Whom Thy Godhead was manifested, Whom Thou didst ordain to be the Herald of this Revelation, and through Whose advent the eyes of the inmates of the sanctuary of Thy unity were cheered."  BH01974

Ye were present before Us every eve and morn, and were with Me every morning and evening, and witnessed whatsoever appeared from Me, My rising up and My sitting down, yet it was as though ye had never heard the melodies of God though ye heard them constantly, and had not attained His presence though ye witnessed it every moment.   BH00903

When it was said unto them: "By what crime have ye imprisoned Him through Whom the tooth of faith hath gleamed and the sign of the All-Merciful hath appeared?" they said: "It hath been proven that He desired to change God's laws and His religion, and He hath no excellence over us; rather, we see Him as one of the mischief-makers."   BH02095

Likewise did We desire in Iraq to meet with the divines of Persia. When they heard of it, they fled and said: "This is naught but a manifest sorcerer." These are words that issued forth from the mouths of their like before, and these people objected to them for what they said, yet today they speak the same words and understand not.   BH00739

Reflect upon this bounty, that while the divines of the age, despite having awaited the appearance of Truth throughout centuries and ages, remained deprived behind the veils of idle fancies and were shut out from the ocean of generosity when the dawn of the Day of God appeared and the world was illumined by the lights of the Sun of Truth  BH02090

Christ said that the stone the builders rejected became the headstone of the corner. This means that the spiritually great men and women of the world have been rejected and despised in all times by the builders of the world; but that now in this, the time of the Kingdom, these spiritual ones will become the chief stones in the building.   ABU0893

In all ages and centuries the ignorant divines have forbidden and continue to forbid the servants from God, exalted be His glory. In their primary station and first rank, they are in the throes of death - their souls transform light into fire, acceptance into rejection, and knowledge into ignorance. In truth, they seize the human spirit.   BH00441

All who dwell on earth are seen as children playing with clay, and they understand not. They worship idols and perceive not. What idol could be greater than he who was known as truthful but proved false? He was the greatest idol that was cast down by the hand of power, and likewise another idol. Soon thou shalt see the third in the flames.   BH04056

The Shi'ih sect considered themselves the most truthful and learned in the world. There was no test, and likewise no distinction between the servants. Therefore for one thousand two hundred years they accepted some and established for them the station of divinity, while others they denounced as unbelievers. The cause of this was the turbaned ones.   BH04527

The cause of the prevention of the servants and its reason have been the divines of the age. Glory be to God! Despite their lamenting and wailing with a hundred thousand cries and supplications for the appearance of the Promised One and His meeting, when He was made manifest they did what caused the Primal Point to choose ashes as His resting place.   BH00494

In every age and epoch, when the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree was heard and the fragrance of the Revelation was diffused, the divines of the age arose to deny and denounce. They are learned in the eyes of men but ignorant before thy Lord, the All-Knowing. It is not known in what wilderness these ignorant souls walk or toward what visage they turn.   BH02770

Consider the days of the Messenger: after the appearance of that Most Great Luminary, all the divines and men of learning turned away, while Abu Dharr, who was but a shepherd, turned toward the law of nearness and attainment, and was immersed in the ocean of knowledge and utterance. And now all the divines glory in his name and bow before his mention.   BH02413

The Verses have been sent down and the clear proofs have appeared, yet most of the people are in manifest error. O Zayn! Observe, then mention those who have denied in the land of Sad, having followed the source of vain imaginings instead of God, the Lord of all worlds. They have taken the misleader as their guide--verily they are among the abased ones.  BH00452

Throughout past ages and centuries, the people of Iran, both clergy and others, according to their own claims, held fast to truth, spoke of truth, and walked in the path of truth. Yet when the light of the Most Great Luminary shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the Ancient Lord's will, they committed such acts as no oppressor had ever committed  BH05028

Reflect upon the Shi'ih sect. Previously We commanded all through the Most Exalted Pen to ponder upon this heedless people who, throughout ages and centuries, were speaking of God, glorified be His majesty, yearning and hoping for the days of His meeting. Yet when the dawn of His Revelation rose and shone forth, they all rose up in opposition and protest.   BH00319

At the dawn of this Day, the divines of Iran turned away, casting the Book of God behind their backs, clinging to the whisperings of the heedless. They are the ones who denied God's truth throughout all ages and pronounced against the Manifestations of His Cause, the Dawning-Places of His Revelation, and the Rising-Points of His all-encompassing knowledge.   BH00490

The divines, mystics and princes of the earth, whenever mention was made of the Qa'im - may our souls be a sacrifice for Him - would utter "May God hasten His relief." Yet when the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of God's Will, they arose with the utmost hatred and tyranny, to such extent that they martyred that Essence of being with the most grievous torment.   BH05229

And after Him there appeared from the Ridvan of the Eternal, the Invisible, the holy person of Salih, Who again summoned the people to the river of everlasting life. For over a hundred years He admonished them to hold fast unto the commandments of God and eschew that which is forbidden. His admonitions, however, yielded no fruit, and His pleading proved of no avail.  BH00002

We have gathered together all those who were given the Furqan through a single command. When We made Our Self known unto them, declaring that there is no God but I, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting, those who followed the signs of God from their Qa'im - these are the believers. And those who remained veiled from the Manifestation of God - these shall enter the fire.  BB00003

Observe the divines of the Shi'ih sect, who considered themselves more exalted, mightier, more glorious and more perfect than all other peoples, yet when the winds of tests blew and the Beauty of the All-Merciful was made manifest, they remained distant from the hiding place of nearness and reunion, and drank not from the fountain of His manifestation and attainment.   BH00586

O Lord! Thou seest how the divines of this age have risen against Thee and turned away from Thee, and have committed that which hath caused the atoms of existence and the dwellers of the cities of names and attributes to lament. Through their turning away, they have caused Thy servants to turn away, denied Thy signs, disputed Thy proof, and warred against Thy very Self.  BH06068

For all who exceeded any of Thy Beloved's successors, this was because Thy Beloved made him the manifestation of His Self, and likewise what was revealed at Thy Messenger's tomb was because Thou didst make him Thy Prophet. Yet all who gained this are tested on that Day by the manifestation of Thy Self, for had they truly acted before, how could they be veiled on that Day?   BB00052

Although He may be the Beloved One of all the nations of the world, His renown world-conquering, the fame of His Grandeur reaching the ears of the rich and the poor alike, still like unto the owls we are joyful and happy in our dilapidated nests. We do not wish to hear the song of the bird of the dawn neither are we seeking the shade of the Phoenix of the height of glory.   ABU1795

Throughout ages and centuries the previous people reckoned themselves the most learned of mankind and the most excellent of nations, yet on the Day of His Manifestation they were found to be the most abject of all. From the beginning of time until now, not a single one of the divines of Persia hath attained unto the Purpose, being tormented in the wilderness of idle fancies.   BH01223

Nevertheless, all have risen in opposition and engaged in objection. Strange it is that all wait expectantly, beseeching and imploring God not to deprive or withhold them from recognizing this wondrous and glorious Day. And yet now that the Day hath appeared manifest and the divine Voice proclaimeth at its loudest between earth and heaven, all are found heedless and slumbering.   BH06923

Although the days of the Manifestation are also counted among the days of God, these days are specifically the days of God mentioned in the divine Books. O Khalil! Those souls like Hadi and others are considered by the believer as the first to believe, and by the disbeliever as the first to deny. By the life of God! He is not among the horsemen of the arena of knowledge and wisdom.  BH00056

Glory be to God! What heedlessness and ignorance is this, and what foolishness and disobedience, that the realm of Iran has always been deprived of every blessing due to the prejudice of the traditional clergy. Whenever a just government intended good and established reforms and order, ignorant leaders opposed and argued against it, preventing the improvement of beneficial matters.   AB00055

They say "We believed in God," yet when He appeared in truth they denied Him. Lo! They are among the liars. And when they are told that which their desires approve not, they turn upon their heels. Lo! They are among the abased. When We show them the signs, they say "These are but forgeries," and when the sun of clear proofs shines forth they say "This is naught but manifest sorcery."  BH03706

Ye are those who for a thousand years argued that the Qa'im was living in a known land, yet when one of those near to God spoke of His future birth, ye denounced him as an infidel and slew him, even as blood was shed of those who were assured in the Cause of their Lord. This was a tenet established among you, and whoso confessed otherwise, ye cursed him and pronounced him an infidel.   BH01408

Have no care because of the blame of enemies and the remonstrance of relatives. For this is in the path of God and this will bring you honor in both worlds. During all the former cycles - the cycle of Abraham, the cycle of Moses, the cycle of Christ- men and women believers have always been objects of blame on the part of the heedless ones, but before long the situation was reversed.   AB02097

"Blessed are you for having believed in God and His signs when the divines and jurists of the earth denied Him - they who would mention God morning and evening, beseeching that He grant them the honor of meeting Him Who was promised in the Books, the Psalms and the Tablets. But when He came from the horizon of power, they pronounced against Him an injustice at which all things lamented"   BH02487

Should one ask any of the divines, Why hast thou turned away from this Revelation, and by what proof didst thou recognize Muhammad, the Messenger of God, when He appeared? he would reply: That which hath appeared I find not in the books of old. Say: All that thou beholdest and utterest springeth from thine idle fancies. He appeareth not according to thy desire, but according to His Will.  BH11640

Among them, one day came a delegation of religious scholars. One of them said, We were awaiting the promised Mahdi. Then a Shirazi Siyyid claimed to be the Mahdi, and a number of people followed him. After that, we were awaiting the appearance of Husayni. Now you have claimed that station. Your duty is to study Sharh-i-Lum'ih and Sibavayh until you return completely to your proper station.  BHU0029

If the matter were to depend upon the words of people and what they possess, the Truth should never appear, inasmuch as in every age and dispensation when the Sun of Truth hath shone forth from the horizon of the divine Will, all have raised objections and turned away in fierce opposition, accounting that Manifestation of the Divine Unity to be among the workers of corruption and sedition.  BH00004

And at the manifestation of the light of the Manifest Sovereign in the year sixty, it was as though this party had never progressed from the stage of the drop to that of the clot [...] And in the appearance of the Light of the manifest Sovereign in the year sixty, it seems these people never advanced from the stage of a sperm to that of a clot and a lump of flesh, let alone reached maturity.  BH04245

Would that they had clung to their own kind and left the helpless people to themselves! Say: O Hadi, fear God and conceal not the Cause, nor cleave to that which thy self desires. Hide it not - thou went to the island and saw. Make not thyself doubtful of it. Leadership will not protect thee. Rend asunder the veil of heedlessness and with the arm of certitude shatter the idol of vain imaginings.   BH00300

The traditions of the Family of the Prophet have been fulfilled completely, including where they said that when He appears, the clergy of my community will wage war against Him, inflicting upon Him the same persecution inflicted upon the Messenger of God, because they interpret God's word according to their false beliefs and fight against Him, joining the ranks of sun-worshippers and moon-worshippers.  BB00094

For twelve hundred years the people of old clung to names and worshipped the idols of their desires. On the Day of Reckoning there appeared from them that which caused the Most Exalted Pen to weep and the Tablet to lament. From the beginning of Islam until this day, not one of the divines who considered themselves the guides of the people and guardians of God's Law was aware of the nature of His Revelation.  BH03478

If these divines be illumined by the light of the latter Revelation, they will be acceptable unto God, and will shine with a light everlasting. Otherwise, they will be declared as darkened, even though to outward seeming they be leaders of men, inasmuch as belief and unbelief, guidance and error, felicity and misery, light and darkness, are all dependent upon the sanction of Him Who is the Daystar of Truth.  BH00002

Many were the days that passed and nights that ended while devoted women remained occupied in worship and persisted in the recitation of verses. Yet when the Ancient Beauty unveiled His countenance in this realm, not one of them turned towards Him, but remained engaged in their devotions and invocations, staying veiled from that Qiblih of the horizons. How evil are the deeds of those who have been veiled from God!  AB07652

"And among the people are those who say that naught hath passed of God's days save a numbered few and certain known years, and therefore it behooveth not that anyone should appear. Thus have they limited God's Cause by their own limitations, even as did those before them, and were among the idolators. They say what the people of the Furqan said when God came in the temple of His name, the Most High, the Most Great."  BH00980

Yet when He appeared contrary to their understanding, reason, suppositions and imaginings, they raised the standards of rejection and unfurled the banners of denial and protest. The deeds of that rebellious, transgressing and heedless community are not surprising, for those possessed of insight and the people of the Most Sublime Vision have always recognized such souls as worshippers of the idols of vain imaginings.  BH01229

When one appears with clear signs, they draw against him the swords of their souls, hearts, and tongues, striking without delay or hesitation. They have forgotten all that Thou didst command in the Book, though but few days have passed since Thy time. They have reached such a state of pride and heedlessness that they recognize God's grace, signs, and proof, then deny them, thus showing their rebellion against Thy presence.   BH00677

For years they prided themselves before all people in making mention of the Successor and the like. Yet when the light of Revelation illumined the horizon of the Bayan, they all rose in opposition and committed that from which all peoples of the world would dissociate themselves. Now again, similar parties have emerged who cling to names while being cut off from their Source, their Sovereign, their Sender and their Quickener.   BH00574

Observe how Sheikh Muhammad Hassan Najafi, who was the pole of Iranian scholars, and other scholars of Najaf and the land of Taff and the countries of Iran, after the raising of the Word and the declaration of the Cause, all were found to be veiled and forbidden. They were deprived of the ocean of the Merciful's utterance and heedless of the sun of knowledge. Rather, they occupied themselves with cursing and execration from the pulpits.   BH00548

Reflect by what means the people of Moses were prevented when We manifested the Spirit with evident sovereignty, and by what thing the followers of the Son were held back when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, came with sovereignty that conquered the worlds, and by what proof the people of the Furqan were barred from the Water of Life after He appeared at the heart of possibility with this Name through which God hath subdued all in the kingdoms.  BH08353

"All this heedlessness and error and ignorance that hath encompassed the world - its primary cause and reason have been and continue to be the divines of the earth, for they have devised vain imaginings and, through a hundred thousand strategems and deceits, have caused these imaginings to enter into the minds of the ignorant of the earth. So long as these vain imaginings persist, they remain deprived of the splendors of the sun of certitude."  BH02814

Observe the divine Manifestations throughout the ages and reflect: what was the cause that all, despite their seeking, were deprived and forbidden, save those whom thy Lord wished? Forever have the veils of idle fancies prevented people from the Dayspring of the lights of divine unity. And after the elevation and ascension of the Dawning-Places of revelation, they would arise in lamentation and weeping. Such is their condition and their deeds.   BH05292

For twelve hundred years and more the Shi'ih sect counted themselves above all other sects and considered themselves the most exalted of creation. In the end what happened and what became evident was that in the sight of the Lord of creation they were and are like worthless insects, for they martyred with their own hands the One they worshipped and visited upon the friends of God in every land that which tongue and pen are powerless to recount.   BH04012

O people of God! The Shi'ih sect counted themselves as the most learned, the most enlightened and the most excellent among all the peoples of the world, yet on the Day of Judgment they were seen to be the most lost among the nations. This loss proceeded from the divines, for in ages past they educated the people in vain imaginings, and even now they await the emergence of an imaginary one from an imaginary city. Such is the state of the divines of the past.   BH00995

Continually do ye write that the Primal Point hath said thus and thus, while at every moment ye wound that same Point with the swords of hatred and the spears of malice and abuse. Ye strike, yet perceive not. Your example is like unto those souls who in days and nights past awaited the Truth, yet after His appearance cited His former words as proof of His infidelity and corruption, until at last they perpetrated complete injustice by shedding His pure blood.  BH00004

In previous dispensations, such people felt that they had no need for spiritual teachings, and they would condemn the companions of their respective Manifestations with the most scathing of words. Some would say, 'We see in Thee but a man like ourselves; and we see not any who have followed Thee except our meanest ones of hasty judgment; others would say, 'He is certainly a lunatic; and likewise it is said, When they see Thee, they do but take Thee in mockery?'  ABU3704

Verily the criterion you mentioned is the same one that was in the hands of the divines during the time of the Primal Point, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him, and likewise during the time of the Messenger of God before Him, and before that the appearance of Jesus son of Mary, when all the divines and leaders objected to those Suns of Truth according to their own criteria, until finally they issued the decree for the execution of those holy Temples.  BH00004

Consider the Shi'ih divines throughout the ages and centuries - they were vocal in remembering God, exalted be His glory, and from their pulpits would recite "Would that I were with Him" - that is, with the Qa'im. Yet when the Most Great Gate was opened and the Ancient Luminary appeared, they occupied themselves with cursing and reviling Him, and finally pronounced and carried out the death sentence against Him - such that the Bridge trembled and the Balance wept.   BH04282

Consider how all the Shi'ih divines - may God forsake them - arose in opposition and issued the verdict for the execution of the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake. Day and night, they and their followers busied themselves with cursing, execration and charges of unbelief, while the cotton-carders, despite them, crossed the bridge and partook of the choice sealed wine. May God protect the people from the evil of the divines.   BH00676

O physician! Due to the actions of some in the past, most people have entertained unseemly doubts about God's most exalted, most impenetrable, most holy Cause. Some have imagined that, God forbid, God forbid, the chosen ones and the near ones are not acceptable. However, God shall establish the truth through His words. Verily, He is the Powerful, the Mighty. Soon there shall be made manifest to all the world that which they are now heedless of and veiled from due to the whisperings of the satans of the earth.   BH00216

The whole world was brought from utter nothingness into being for the recognition of the Ancient King, yet when the Sun of Truth shone forth and He Who conversed on Sinai was seated upon the throne of manifestation, they turned away. Would that they had been content with that! Nay, they committed that which caused the hearts of the sincere ones to be consumed and the lamentations of them who are nigh unto God to be raised. The Divine Lote-Tree bewailed the tyranny of the divines, and the Most Exalted Pen wept.   BH00786

Glory be unto Thee! Glory be unto Thee! All the mystics are naked of the wonders of Thy wisdom, and all the divines are foolish before the manifestations of Thy knowledge, and all the philosophers are powerless before the tokens of Thy mighty sovereignty, and all the eloquent ones fall short of attaining the arenas of Thy grandeur, and all the wealthy ones are poor before the surging of the seas of Thy riches, and all the learned ones are ignorant before Thee, and all the mighty ones are as nothing before Thee.   BH01699

O Mir! Cleanse the mirror of thy heart from all defilement that thou mayest find therein the image of this Wronged One, the Captive, Who hath fallen beneath the swords of hatred through that which the hands of these idolaters have wrought - they who say with their tongues "By God, we believed in 'Ali-Qabl-Nabil," yet when the sovereign Manifestation of His Cause appeared, they denied Him and pronounced Him false, until they issued the decree for His death just as previous peoples decreed death for the Prophets and Messengers.  BH01180

the seven climes are stirred by the trumpet of Israfil and the fame and call of this wondrous Cause has set the pillars of the world in motion, yet most of the people of Iran are still caught in a nightmarish sleep, especially the province of Nur which is the homeland of the Intended One - it is still somewhat dormant and veiled, like Mecca which was the homeland of the Prophet (peace be upon him). Yathrib, Yemen and Tihama had become illumined while Mecca, which was the growing place of the Blessed Tree, remained heedless and negligent.  AB00937

Among the Pharisees were those who cited the Torah as proof of His falsity, after the Torah had testified of Him and what was revealed in the scrolls of the Messengers. Had they understood the Books and what God intended therein, they would not have been debarred from recognizing that which was their purpose. To this testifieth every fair-minded one possessed of knowledge. When they interpreted what was in the Books according to their desires, they were veiled from the Spirit and committed that which caused the eyes of them that are nigh to shed tears.   BH00817

Ponder the state of the people and what they possess, that thou mayest be assured that they wander distraught in the wilderness of error and are unaware. They acknowledge what was revealed aforetime yet fail to recognize it. Have they recognized the Resurrection and what hath appeared therein? Nay, by My Self, they are a blind people. They say the Bridge is true, and the Balance is true, and Paradise is true, and Hell is true, and the Hour is sure to come. Yet when thou questionest them about what they mention, thou findest them in the darkness of ignorance.  BH01262

Therefore, the people of the Furqan raised an outcry and were seized with fear and trembling, saying: "If this is the Promised One and the Resurrection has come to pass, where then is the earthquake that shall shake the earth to its depths and cause it to cast forth its burdens? Where is the earth's revealing of its tidings? Where is the cleaving of the heaven and the scattering of its stars? Where is the darkening of the sun and the dimming of its light? Where is the splitting of the moon and the trembling of the dusty earth and the moving of its mountains?"   AB00089


Glory be to God! Every person of insight is bewildered and every person of fairness is astounded that the divines of Persia should remain heedless and turn away from this wise Cause and momentous Announcement. What is current among the various factions is as a drop compared to the ocean, or as a stream before the manifestation of the sea. Some were invited that they might present themselves and, through the breezes of divine inspiration, seek to attain their station and deliver themselves from grievous abasement. They accepted not from the Truth; nay, the goodly counsel of the Lord increased their rancor.  BH11665

The smoke mentioned in the Book of God intervened, wherefore eyes were deprived of beholding the signs and ears were prevented from hearkening to the call of the All-Merciful. Man is bewildered, nay the world is bewildered, as to what caused this prevention and what brought about this veiling. Yea, by the Lord of all beings, the cause is but the recompense of deeds. They have forsaken the Sun of Truth and occupied themselves with vain imaginings. They have turned away from the choice sealed wine and clung to mere conjectures. They were worshippers of passion while counting themselves among the people of piety.  BH00030

The doctors, however, considering this arrangement as a weakening of the Law, did not agree, but held a conclave and wrote, If there be doubt in the matter there is need of assembly and discussion, but as this person's disagreement with the most luminous Law is clearer than the sun therefore the best possible thing is to put in practice the sentence of the Law. These learned doctors and honorable scholars, unwilling to bring the Perspicuous Law into contempt, did not approve discussion and controversy with a young merchant, with the exception of that most erudite sage Aqa Muhammad-Mihdi, and that eminent Platonist Mirza Hasan of Nur.  AB00003

For twelve hundred years the divines of Persia made mention of the Qa'im and invoked may God hasten His advent, yet when the Light of the Bayan shone forth from the horizon of the Will of the All-Merciful, all, whether learned or ignorant, pronounced Him an infidel and issued the decree for the shedding of His most pure blood. This matter is clear and evident to all. Furthermore, not one among all these divines possessed knowledge equal even to a needle's eye, as evidenced by their complete unawareness of that Essence of Being while He was still in the loins. Indeed, should anyone have made mention of this station, declaring that He must be born, they would have issued the decree for his death and shed his blood.  BH11641

Similarly, there was talk of the ulama and how Aqa Muhammad Khan (referring to Aqa Muhammad Khan Qajar, founder of the Qajar dynasty) killed eight thousand mullas in one day. After Karim Khan Zand (referring to Karim Khan Zand, founder of the Zand dynasty), Lutf Ali Khan came to power. The ulama wanted him, while Aqa Muhammad Khan was also vying for power. The ulama began speaking against Aqa Muhammad Khan, saying that the Qajars were from the Umayyads and that Shimr's sword was still in the possession of the Qajars. Aqa Muhammad Khan sent spies among the ulama suggesting that they should gather in one place to be more effective. Thus they gathered in Kerman, and this calamity befell them. In Isfahan, seven of them were flayed alive.  ABU1621




O ye that are foolish, yet have a name to be wise! Wherefore do ye wear the guise of the shepherd, when inwardly ye have become wolves, intent upon My flock? Ye are even as the star, which riseth ere the dawn, and which, though it seem radiant and luminous, leadeth the wayfarers of My city astray into the paths of perdition.  BH00005


This disgrace sufficeth the learned divines of Islam, that they exhibit Islamic knowledge on account of their bearing allegiance unto Islam, and yet they are veiled from the One Whose Word hath fashioned and confirmed Islam itself! Had they been content to veil themselves, had they wronged no one, and had they decreed naught but that which is in the Qur'an, they would have been guilty for casting their own souls in fire. But now, besides their own torment, the torments of those who have considered them the learned of Islam, nay, rather the punishments of all who have been veiled from the Manifestation of God, would be theirs.  BB00001

The opposition of the divines can hardly amount to the resistance of a frail mosquito, while the potency of the Word of God is as a tempestuous wind; wherefore dost thou grieve?   AB05558

"The religious leaders of that time shall be the most evil religious leaders under the canopy of heaven." What do the esteemed ulama say about this? Aqa Shaykh replied that they believe this is true but do not consider themselves to be the manifestation of this hadith.  ABU1621

Those who turned away in the earliest days before all people were the divines of Iran. They disputed the verses of God and cast His Book behind their backs, and by their turning away the servants turned away. To this testifieth every discerning scholar and every informed sage.   BH01131

Most of our enemies are the divines of the earth, as testifieth the Mother Book which is with Him. They have clung to idle fancies and imagined themselves to be manifestations of knowledge in the world. Say: Shame upon you, O company of ignorant ones! By God, knowledge itself disavoweth you at all times.   BH05238


every doubting scholar turned away from Thee   BH07153

when kings and subjects turned away from Him   BH02007

all have opposed Him in Whom they took pride   BH01993

"the hosts of the oppressors prevented Us not"  BH02562

but the people prevented thee from reaching Us   BH11426

whilst I was in the clutches of the wicked ones   BH07747

the might of the wicked ones hath not deterred him  BH06482


yet the peoples have denied, turned away and objected   BH09488

after all others opposed Him, following the evil ones   BH06311


the Pen of Revelation after It was surrounded by wolves   BH03736

due to the might of princes and the opposition of divines   BH07893

Thou seest what the idolaters have perpetrated in Thy days.   BH09087



after the mighty ones among the men of Thy realm had forbidden it   BH06809


whereby the back of every doubting denier hath been made to tremble   BH06540

Woe unto him who hath transgressed against Him on this manifest Day!   BH09830

inform the people of what hath befallen Me at the hands of Mine enemies   BH06052

when they that wear white turbans and they of the green domes turned away  BH05288

neither the barking of dogs nor the might of the oppressors disturbs you   BH04740

for the barking ones have aimed and continue to aim at the divine dominion  BH08574

whereby the feet of the mystics and the learned and the jurists have slipped   BH08737

whilst thou wert wronged at the hands of such as were heedless of this Cause   BH08623

Therefore, do not be concerned about the attacks from strangers and relatives  AB05352

this Exile who hath been driven from His native land by Thy heedless servants   BH10618

His name is in the hands of those who are heedless of God's outstretched path   BH09516

"...when the learned ones of the earth and its people turned away from Thee."   BH06828

Ye are they whom neither the might of princes held back from the Lord of Names   BH11084

Clamor arose from all directions; from every side they assailed the Wronged One  BH04827

they have gathered against us... they rose up to wage war against us before Thee   BH03512


when sorrows encompassed Him from those who disbelieved in God, the Lord of the worlds  BH05109

and wert not hindered by the intimations of the opposers and the words of the deniers.   BH05306

the opposition of the people hath not prevented from turning towards the horizon of God  BH11764

on a day wherein the servants were prevented from turning to God, the Lord of all worlds  BH06244

but they have turned away and objected, having followed every heedless and rejected one   BH05714

on a day whereon the pillars of the world were shaken by the clamor of the peoples   BH06266

"protect thee from the doubts of the croakers and the intimations of the suspicious ones"   BH11177

Your letter was received and the calumnies of the people of veils became known and clear.   AB11971

"the hosts of the idolaters shall not hold thee back from the Lord of the Day of Judgment"   BH05985

Yet when We unveiled Beauty from the Dawning-Place of Glory, heedless souls objected to Us.   BH04780

they who have cast the Book behind their backs, clinging to idle fancies and vain imaginings   BH04909

And now all the divines of Persia are engaged in cursing and reviling Him from their pulpits.  BH01664

Grieve not at the distance, for between Us stand heedless servants. Ask God to remove the veil.  BH10233

Thy creatures who have cast behind them Thy Book and have clung to vain imaginings in Thy days   BH07643

Then know that your namesake has slandered me, and for this God hath seized him by His command   BH03373

in these days wherein the Worshipped One hath come and the faces of the wicked have been darkened   BH08672

The leaders have gathered to harm Us, yet they lie beneath Our feet, though they perceive it not.   BH05804

those who have opposed Thy Self after Thou didst come to them with the Manifestation of Thy Cause   BH05532

the dogs of the earth from every direction have gathered against Him with claws of strange hatred   BH02937

And whosoever would deny the bounty of this Day hath nothing. They are those whose sight has died.  BH02115

Wouldst thou rest while the Temple of God was raised upon the cross of hatred by these idolaters?   BH01520

Blessed art thou for having praised the Wronged One, against Whom heedless servants have risen up.   BH09315

The idolaters denied Him after He came with clear proofs, radiant verses, and illuminating lights.   BH07142

through the utterances of the most wicked souls have turned away from the Dawning-Place of oneness   BH06464

The kings saw no benefit for themselves in acknowledging Him, and likewise the ministers and clergy   BH10983

Especially the common rabble and contemptible, vile, quarrelsome mob - it is known what they will do.  AB01025

All those who turned away knew that Mirza Muhammad Ali was opposing the Cause of the Blessed Beauty.   ABU1492

and leave me not, O my God, in the hands of them that have denied the beauty of Thy glorious splendor   BH04843

Remember thy Lord; verily He remembereth thee in this land of exile amidst the hands of the idolaters.   BH10765

for the polytheists have stood firm in their dissension and are at all times occupied with new schemes   BH08684

Among them was he who said "This is not the Promised One." Say: By this all existence doth curse thee!   BH07884

This is the Day whereon the Tongue of Grandeur speaks amongst the nations, yet they turn away from Him.  BH07140

How many a woman has believed, and how many a man has been prevented due to following vain imaginings.   BH06767

when He was in the hands of the wicked ones who denied God's proof and testimony and disputed His verses  BH03852

There hath befallen Us at the hands of the enemies that which no pen can recount nor any pages contain.   BH03160

The opposition of Thine enemies hath not prevented Thee from that which Thou hast purposed in creation.   BH01387

The world hath been enveloped by the smoke of tyranny, and the fire of malicious souls hath been kindled   BH08894


When the veil was rent asunder and the All-Bountiful appeared, every remote denier turned away from Him.   BH04393

That which melteth the heart and consumeth the body is the appearance of enemies in the garb of loved ones.  BH02866

Thou hast loved Him Whose hatred hath filled the scrolls of the world, as every discerning one doth testify  BH02639

They are the ones who denied God's proof and His evidence, and committed that which caused sighs to ascend.   BH06825

think not evil thoughts of God, nor follow those in whose hearts thou findest hatred for this servant of God  BH06533

Sanctify thyself from the insinuations of those who oppose God and shun them as thou wouldst shun the plague.   BH03989

certain flies began to buzz from behind the veil and prevented the people of unity from the wine of detachment   BH08148

follow not those who have disputed the signs of God and His proof when the Countenance appeared with this Name   BH07809

despite those who followed their desires, turning away from the One, the Single, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH05632

nor shall the might of the oppressors prevent me from turning to Thee and drawing near to the gate of Thy bounty  BH06378

They desired to banish Us from this land to extinguish God's Cause and quench the fire of His love in all else.   BH06024

The clamor of the idolaters hath been raised there, even as We informed you before in wondrous tablets of glory.  BH02859

From the tyranny and oppression of pharaonic ones... due to the tyranny of treacherous and rebellious oppressors   AB04053

By God! All things have lamented at what hath come to pass against the Lord of Names, yet the people understand not   BH07419

The name beginning with S was prevented from appearing, and the veils of the oppressors have come between Us and him   BH07085

We answered thee at a time when sorrows had encompassed Me from those who disbelieved in God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH11635

the hosts of polytheism have surrounded Him from every direction, and He hath no helper nor supporter in all the earth  BH02210

Thou art indeed aware of what befell Us in the Land of Mystery when two persons rose up against God, the Lord of Days.   BH02489

you have endured ultimate persecution and cruelty from the custodian of Shah-Chiragh, and have suffered endless trials   AB01979

the Pharaohic cruelties inflicted by the oppressors among Thy servants will not succeed in keeping them back from Thee.   BH09854

In days when the opposition of the divines, the objections of the mystics, and the power of princes had encompassed all   BH02370

By My life! Such wrongs have been inflicted upon this Revelation as have no parallel or likeness in the past or present.  BH07267

they who denied the proof of God and His testimony and committed that which caused the tears of the sincere ones to flow   BH04509

Account of how Namiq Pasha delivered the second exile order from the Sublime Porte after previous attempts to prevent it.  ABU0642

The Shah of Persia was oppressing, and the Ottoman Government was also oppressing us. At such a time they were revealed.   ABU0305

Blessed art thou for having turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon when the learned ones of the earth turned away from it   BH04238

but the smoke of heedless hearts hath become an obstacle, and the hatred of souls hath appeared as an impenetrable barrier.  BH10473

for he has appeared with the hosts of polytheism, and thus was it inscribed in the tablets of destiny by the executing Pen   BH09242

when the peoples turned away from Him - they who clung to their vain imaginings, turning aside from God, the Lord of Lords.   BH07242

whereby the hearts of those who clung to what they possessed and turned away from what Thou hast were thrown into commotion   BH04342

The hearts of the idolaters were consumed by what We sent before; therefore do they plot against My Self morning and evening  BH04076

The idolatrous embodiments are constantly occupied with new calumnies, and they have surely sent letters to various regions.  BH01544

We desired the life of the world, its sanctification and exaltation, yet he desired to shed My blood and cause My tribulation   BH10443

The governor of Akka, after our freedom asked my opinion as regards to the success of the Constitutional government in Turkey.  ABU1060

Say: whoso remaineth veiled from Him cannot be deemed to have attained unto faith, and is among the losers and the frustrated.   BH05169

for there are many traitors, thieves and calumniators who have misled and continue to mislead the people in the name of truth.   BH04374

the arrows of hatred have been directed toward me from every quarter by those who believed not in Thee and in Thy mighty signs   BH03110

Sultan Abdu'l-'Aziz banished Us to this country in the greatest abasement, and since his object was to destroy Us and humble Us  BHU0048

against Whom have been arrayed the stirrers of sedition, who have broken Thy covenant, and disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs   BH07683

The atheists and hypocrites lie in wait - protect yourselves through God's name and occupy yourselves with the Peerless Friend.   BH04121

Blessed art thou, inasmuch as thou didst turn and hearken and respond to Him from Whom the divines of the earth have turned aside  BH06159

"the gazelles of the wilderness of unity have dogs lying in wait, seeking an opportunity to stretch forth the hand of aggression"  AB05135

We felt that perhaps tomorrow or tonight or in an hour or on this very hour an order may come from the Sultan to kill all of us.   ABU2933

in these days wherein all have turned away from Thy beauty and opposed Thee and shown pride before the Manifestation of Thy Cause   BH08832

Yet they have turned away from Thy beauty, and objected to Thy Cause, and disputed Thy signs, and contended with Thy sovereignty.   BH03235

Blessed are the men whom the might of the people of error hath not prevented or deprived from attaining unto the Lord of Destiny.   BH01428

The afflictions in the path of the Lord of all beings do not dismay Us, nor doth the oppression of any remote oppressor grieve Us.  BH04938

Let not the tyranny of rulers prevent you from drawing nigh unto the Lord of Names... The oppressor desired to extinguish the light   BH04094

We behold thee among them that have turned away. Verily thy Lord is the Mighty, the All-Knowing. Be thou at peace, then stand firm.   BH02900

"Thou hast indeed witnessed him who openly denied God. Say: O people! By God, he was in Our presence as but one of those who serve."  BH02858

The polytheists in most cities and regions have arisen in hypocrisy and opposition, as attesteth He with Whom is the Preserved Book.   BH09344

Do not fabricate lies against Me as ye fabricated before, objecting to Me and to all that appeared from Me, even eating and drinking   BH02739

Thus doth command thee He at Whose appearance the princes lamented and the learned were confounded and every knower was thunderstruck   BH05615

The weather in Haifa is not bad and there is no trouble except that the Mufti is bothersome. However, he is leaving today or tomorrow.  AB09691

Blessed art thou for having spoken in remembrance and praise of the Wronged One in days wherein most of the servants have opposed Him.   BH07844

Thine enemies who have denied Thy signs and who have waged war against the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thine Essence   BH09395

they took captive the Manifestation of Thy Beauty and His kindred and loved ones from Baghdad and brought them to Mosul the hunchbacked   BH07674

Wherefore I have been subjected to such adversities that my tongue hath been hindered from extolling Thee and from magnifying Thy glory.  BH07113

This Wronged One Who hath been afflicted at the hands of His servants and subjects who have disbelieved and associated partners with God   BH06315

But when Husayn appeared in truth, you slew him with the swords of your tongues morning and evening, until you drove him from your lands   BH04052

I complain unto thee of those who attribute themselves to Me yet commit that which causes My lamentation, crying and wailing to rise up.   BH01943

whereby the feet of every learned one have slipped, the heart of every mystic hath been perturbed, and every proud oppressor hath lamented  BH05995

The Blessed Beauty for a very long time stood in that city with utmost power and grandeur against all nations and two mighty governments.   AB02198

When the Cause was revealed, there emerged from behind the veils certain wicked ones who desired to shed My blood without any proof or book.  BH00700

For this did most of the people rise up against Him, even to the point of seeking to put Him to death - and God is my witness to what I say.   BH07285

Yet they committed that which causeth the denizens of Paradise to lament and that which made the Faithful Spirit fall prostrate in the dust.   BH05919

He was fallen into the hands of the heedless... I testify that neither martial hosts, nor the clamour of every wayward cleric, overawed him.   BH04724

The Lote-Tree beyond Which there is no passing, crieth out, by reason of the cruelty of the divines. It shouteth aloud, and bewaileth itself.  BH11461

those who have denied Thy truth and disputed Thy signs and risen to extinguish Thy manifest, resplendent, evident, shining and luminous light   BH08928

"through what the hands of those who cast guidance behind them and followed their desires have wrought - they are indeed among the idolaters."  BH05509

Let not that which hath appeared from the dayspring of tyranny frighten thee, and let not the clamor of every remote ignorant one sadden thee.   BH08578

They have turned away from the Light, hastening to the fire. Verily they are a people who deny. They have no portion of this Most Great Ocean.   BH07255

Verily the oppressor hath arisen in opposition and committed that which hath caused the dwellers of Paradise to wail and all things to cry out   BH06377

Blessed art thou for having turned unto the Countenance when the ignorant ones of the earth turned away from it. They, verily, comprehend not.   BH05841

the allusions of the ungodly may not prevent them from turning to Thee, nor the words of the misguided from beholding the horizon of Thy grace   BH05193

Though the calumnies of the calumniators have encompassed all, yet the Wronged One remaineth seated upon the throne of utterance at all times.   BH03606

Those souls who for years were mentioned by the name of Truth and dwelt secure and at rest beneath His shade have now appeared with utmost hatred  BH08711

The people have denied the bounty of God and His sovereignty, to the extent that they committed that which caused the Faithful Spirit to cry out.   BH08283

The oppressor seeks victory over Us through the force of hosts, while We seek victory over him through the Mighty, the All-Powerful, the Almighty.  BH00559

while the opposers lay in wait to prevent Thy servants from turning unto the court of Thy nearness and entering the precincts of Thy companionship   BH04516

Among the people are those who turned away and disbelieved in God their Lord, and those who believed and sought shelter beneath this extended shade   BH05542

Neither the might of princes nor the clamor of divines who have denied God's right, His sovereignty, His proof and His testimony, have deterred Him.  BH00456

Among the people are those who said: "He hath repudiated the divines." Say: "Yea, by My Lord! I, in very truth, was the One Who abolished the idols!"   BH08360

the threats of those who turned away when clear evidence came unto them from God, the Lord of the Kingdom and of the realm above, did not frighten Us   BH04218

He who loved Me and soared in Mine atmosphere and circled round Me - he who was named Mushkin in My preserved and mighty Tablet - made mention of thee   BH05747

Yet they have risen in oppression and turned away from Him through Whom the horizon of revelation was illumined and God came with manifest sovereignty.   BH10351

A Book sent down by the All-Merciful to him who has attained to recognition on a day when all but those whom God, the Lord of lords, willed turned away.  BH05485

From all directions the signs of the treacherous and the thieves have appeared and become manifest. Great is the Cause, and mighty must be the endeavor.   BH05901

Time hath brought Me so low that he who was created by My word hath risen to oppose Me and prideth himself in serving Me - God is witness to what I say.   BH02019

This is a Day wherein every learned one hath turned away, every mystic hath denied, and every suspicious writer hath rejected - save whom God hath willed   BH06265

Be not saddened by the tyranny of princes and the rejection of divines. Fix your gaze upon the Most Exalted Horizon and be confident in the grace of God.   BH06013

neither the might of princes, nor the power of divines, nor the wealth of the rich, nor whatsoever hath been created in the heavens and on earth can stand   BH06966

Blessed is the strong one whom the cawing of the wicked weakeneth not, and the steadfast one whom the clamor of every ignorant outcast causeth not to sit.   BH05627

Ye have pronounced judgment against Him through Whose name your stations were exalted and your ordinances encompassed all and your commands were executed.   BH05492

Some among them have followed their desires and turned away from the Dawning-Place of utterance when it shone forth with this brilliant, resplendent Light.  BH04523

We summon the servants for the sake of God, yet among them are those who have drawn against Me the sword of hatred, and among them those who have denied Me   BH03001

We have indeed manifested Ourself for this purpose, but the idolaters have intervened between Us and those who have believed in God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH02569

They reached the heights of glory in this vain life through My Name, yet when I manifested My Self they pronounced judgment against it with evident tyranny.   BH03164

This commission of investigation and oppression was on its way back to Istanbul from 'Akka when the majesty of the justice of God revolutionized all matters.  ABU2863

The polytheists took my family and loved ones as captives from Iraq and brought them to other lands, yet the fire of hatred in their breasts was not quenched.  BH10170

Be thou of such constancy that tribulation shall not deter thee from making mention of Me, even as the kings and rulers united against Us failed to deter Us.   BH05106

servants who were created by His command rose up against Him - and God is witness to this - and they visited upon Me that which the Pen is ashamed to mention   BH02672

Among them were those who denied Him and rejected the signs of God, and were of the idolaters. And among them were those who rose up against Him in hostility   BH01948

This is the night whereon My Pen groaneth over what hath befallen the letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll from every oppressor who is estranged from God.   BH06079

Beware lest the doubts of the opposers keep you back from God, the Lord of all worlds, or the allusions of the misguided veil you from the Mighty Announcement.  BH05342

"You went through trouble in Isfahan and we have left there. Do not, do not, speak here because here is the place we are visiting... They will kill you and me."  ABU0816

The transgressions against Jinab-i-Furughi stem from the instigation of a heedless soul among the turbaned ones who shall find himself disappointed and at loss.  AB04722

Some have hearkened and been blessed with the holy word "yea," while others have turned away and risen up with utmost determination to afflict this Wronged One.   BH05974

The Dove warbleth, and nothing between earth and heaven preventeth It from the remembrance of Its Lord, even were It to be caught in the claws of the oppressors.   BH09605

By the life of God, hearts and souls have melted, and the very pillars have been consumed by what hath befallen the Wronged One from the arrows of the idolators.   BH06356

Neither the oppression of the oppressors nor the hosts of those who have disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving, have deterred Us from His remembrance   BH04084

How many a prince has been prevented from turning to God, and how many a poor one has drunk the choice wine and said: "Praise be to Thee, O Lord of the Kingdom!"   BH03749

This Wronged One, without veil or covering, summoned all parties to the truth in days when hearts and limbs trembled and quaked from fear of pharaohs and tyrants.   BH05887

Among the people is he who openly turneth away from God, and when God's verses are recited unto him his face darkeneth and he returneth unto his family in disgrace  BH00934

This is the Day wherein the idolaters have risen against Thee with the swords of malice and hatred, and the heedless with the spears of fancy and idle imagination.   BH04910

Among the people were those who turned away from the Countenance, and among them were those who pronounced judgment against the Wronged One with manifest injustice   BH04775

but the idolaters prevented and came between Me and My loved ones - thus did their souls entice them and they are today among the wrongdoers in My perspicuous Book.   BH03493

which God hath made the Supreme Horizon amidst mankind and the Seat of the Throne, despite those who knew God's bounty then denied it by following every remote divine  BH08073

O Lord! Thou knowest that the earth hath become strait for Thy loved ones who have acknowledged that which Thy tongue hath spoken and who have circled round Thy Cause  BH06631

When the Sun of Manifestation shone forth to a determined degree, the wolves emerged from behind the veil and uttered that which caused the Faithful Spirit to lament.  BH00663

In spite of all this they malevolently made false accusations against us. But God protected us because we were not involved in shedding the blood of even one Persian.  ABU2830

neither the pharaohs of the earth nor its tyrants who have violated Thy Covenant and Thy Testament, and have denied Thy signs and disputed Thy proof, shall prevent me   BH02544

The people have turned away, the government is heedless, and the ignorant ones of the earth have found opportunity and committed that which no group had ever committed.   BH02065

O Muhammad-Qabli-'Ali! Thieves lurk in ambush and traitors lie in wait, whereby the path of divine knowledge is barred and the fragrance of the All-Merciful is cut off.   BH00585


How many a servant has risen in opposition, disputing the verses of God and His proof, and turning away from Him by Whom the Path was established and the Balance set up.   BH04483

The countenance of God hath been changed by the blows of the people of tyranny and wickedness, and His body hath been pierced by the spears of those who are polytheists.   BH04389

They are indeed a people drowned - drowned in the sea of hatred and rancor, and they perceive it not. They are consumed by the fire of wickedness, yet they understand not.  BH05153

Through the power of the Persian government the Blessed Perfection was then sent to Adrianople, in Roumelia, a country very far from Persian (and a possession of Turkey).   ABU0740


If the erection of the House of Worship in a public place would arouse the hostility of evil-doers, then the meeting must, in every locality, be held in some hidden place.  AB06420

"Nevertheless, the heedless souls have not awakened, and at all times have been and are opposed to the Tree of the All-Merciful and its branches, twigs, leaves and fruits."  BH05692

The tyrants did not dismay Him, nor did the pharaohs prevent Him. He appeared and manifested what He desired, despite those servants who denied the Day of Mutual Summoning.  BH00242

Then the polytheists arose in opposition until they denied Him in Whom they had believed, and thus did the hand of separation cast them out from the heaven of mighty glory.   BH09422

Yet the unjust pronounced sentence against Us and against the chosen ones of God with such cruelty as to cause all created things to cry out and every sound heart to lament.   BH06324

Calamities have encompassed Us from all directions through that which the hands of those who disbelieved in God, the Lord of all beings, have wrought, and who objected to Him   BH11334

especially in these days when Abu-Jahl hath appeared and is aflame with the fire of tyranny, and hath committed that which caused the very eye of justice and fairness to weep   BH05972

Blessed art thou for having turned to God and heeded His call when the divines who took idols as lords besides God turned away from Him - verily they are among the lowly ones.  BH05365

The opposition of the clergy can hardly amount to the resistance of a frail mosquito, while the potency of the Word of God is as a tempestuous wind; wherefore dost thou grieve?   AB05558

at times the gloating of enemies, at times the ill-omens of the wicked ones, at times the plunder and pillage of opponents, at times the accusations and slanders of the divines   AB02876


O 'Ali-Akbar! The Lord of Destiny makes mention of thee at this hour when sorrows have encompassed Him from those who have disbelieved in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.  BH03300

Yet have I been patient for the good-pleasure of God, and verily what hath befallen Me of tribulation compared to thy tribulation is as a green ocean compared to a drop of water.  BB00510

The early days of Na?iri'd-Din Shah's reign were a time for self-sacrifice. The very moment the believers would enter [the mosques], they would straightway be hanged or beheaded.  ABU3696


O My handmaid! Ponder upon that which hath befallen My Beauty from My kindred and from the adherents of former Faiths, causing the heaven to be cleft asunder and the earth split.   BH05251

Beware lest thou be veiled by the veils of the divines or held back by the clamor of the theologians who have changed God's bounty into denial and led their people into the fire.   BH03167

Dost thou fear the might of those in power after thou beholdest the Dawning-Place of the Cause standing among the servants with a sovereignty whose might hath seized all regions?   BH01658

neither the might of princes nor the opposition of divines - who broke God's covenant and His testament and caused their people to enter the abode of perdition - could prevent it.   BH03772

And when the Ancient Beauty walketh before their faces, they look upon Him with disdain. Thus hath Satan whispered in their breasts and made them to be numbered with the idolaters.   BH03823

Although I pay great respect to the feelings of people in order that they may not run away or make the least objection, yet the religious ministers of Washington have denounced us.   ABU3155

Then appeared rancor and hatred from the hearts of the heedless. I called all to God whereupon the back of the world trembled and the hearts of those who turned to Him were disturbed.   BH09552

They have calumniated Us and committed that which caused every fair-minded one to weep, brought tears to the eyes of every just one, and made the heart of every discerning one to moan.   BH05821

We found your letter sanctified from the allusions of those who have denied God, the Most High, the Most Great...in this Day wherein the clamor of every remote oppressor hath been raised.  BH07992

Among the people are those who have cast aside the Beloved, turning unto him who hath disbelieved in God; among them are those who have hesitated; among them are those who are bewildered   BH07740

However, the authorities and the oppressors of the day were and are heedless of understanding the cause and reason. Strange it is that even His Majesty the Sultan is unaware of the cause.  BH11726

We love to behold those who have turned towards the Countenance, but the idolaters have intervened between Us and them. To this doth testify the Book of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH08084

leave those who have disbelieved in God. They wronged not you but their own selves, yet because they turned away they became heedless of what they did. Soon shall they behold their deeds.   BH05173

Yet after the appearance of the Divine Day and the establishment of the form of the All-Merciful upon the throne, all turned away and arose in utmost opposition and hypocrisy, save a few.   BH02246


Abdul-Baha wrote to everyone about the consequences of all these calamities, tribulations and afflictions at the beginning of the revolution, even to the great men and ministers of Tehran.   AB03675

When he arrived in Bagdad the Blessed Beauty was the target of many arrows of oppression, the Mullahs held many conferences and consulted together how best to extinguish this Divine Light.   ABU2263

souls caught in vain imaginings - namely those who speak contrary to God's good-pleasure - may not be barred from the straight path nor remain deprived of the countenance of the Ancient One   BH08776

We are aware of what hath befallen thee and We were with thee. What hath been decreed for thee is what hath been decreed for Us, and with thy Lord is the knowledge of the heavens and earth.   BH01391


Beware lest the utterances of the transgressors, who have violated every covenant and every pledge, and who have spoken that which no faction among all factions hath ever spoken, debar thee.   BH05111

Despite this, all denied and failed to recognize its truth. Rather, they issued a decree for His death, save those whom God preserved through truth and delivered from the sea of idle fancies.   BH08416

And for this there befell Him that which hath not befallen anyone in Thy realm. Thus dost Thou behold Him, O my Lord, the Chosen One, among the wicked ones from among the enemies of Thy Self.   BH08251

The divines of the earth and the rulers, one and all, arose in opposition and brought to pass that which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise and the exalted Garden to weep and lament.   BH04584

Surely you have heard of the gathering of the people of Iraq and the divines of Persia, how they arose in opposition until, by God's grace, the hand of divine power brought them all to naught   BH01990

However, he did not accept it, and certain heedless ones of the world caused the messenger to be eliminated. Thus was the word of union changed to separation, and a mighty barrier intervened.   BH00475

For sixty years in gatherings and from pulpits they cried out that the Baha'is were corrupt. Praise be to God that finally the corrupt ones removed their veils and became evident and manifest.  AB10937


We beseech Thee by Thy Most Glorious Beloved to preserve the Glory from the evil of Thine enemies. By Thy might! He hath been afflicted among them in such wise as cannot be mentioned in words.   BH02215

It hath been raised in days when kings gathered for My killing and servants for My destruction, and whensoever one turneth to the right or to the left, one findeth naught but enemies of My Self.   BH04884

We love for Our loved ones to attain Our presence before the Throne and to stand before the Gate, but the oppressors have come between Us and them. To this every discerning soul beareth witness.   BH03238

those who have drawn forth the sword of the tongue to reject God and His Cause, that they might thereby refute the truth and establish falsehood through what they possess of satanic insinuations   BH02610

Because this is the Divine Cause, people in all parts of the world are erecting walls of obstruction to hinder its onward march. These obstructions are not two or ten or fifty; they are numerous   ABU0418

Regarding what is written in this treatise about His Majesty the Ottoman Sultan - whatever is written about the Ottomans, completely remove it, for this Sultan is not now engaged in persecution.   AB12105

Would that one possessed of insight and wisdom could be found who might perceive what oppression hath appeared in this day and to what degree the oppressors have risen up to harm the divine Cause.  BH00004

In Persia there is a group of people which has arisen with all its power to undermine the holy Cause. They have sent me some letters and articles to publish, but I do not publish them in my paper.  ABU0511

thou shalt find their turning away from this Servant - who was naught to them but an affectionate brother and a noble companion after He came to them with the proof of God and a straight testimony   BH07502

Verily, he who first pronounced judgment against them was one named Sadiq. We seized him through Our might and returned him to his abode in the nethermost depths. Then We seized one greater than he   BH06735

Thou seest what hath befallen Thy loved ones at the hands of those who claim to love Thee and Thy Cause, whom the ornaments of the world have deluded until they broke Thy covenant and Thy testament   BH03039



Affairs have become difficult from every direction, but our trust is in the grace of the Forgiving Lord and the justice of the zealous sovereign - whatever God wills. The situation is now very severe.  AB00406

Beware lest the clamor of the divines or the doubts of those who have denied God's truth and His proof and have committed that which hath caused every informed soul to weep, prevent thee or veil thee.   BH05451

God hath heard the call of those who disputed His Cause, denied His signs and turned away from the proof whereby in every age, time and wondrous era the Beauty of the Ancient of Days was made manifest   BH02785

When We arrived, We desired to convey unto all once again, that they might know that tribulations have not prevented the Manifestation of Thyself from manifesting Thy sovereignty and exalting Thy Word.  BH01527

Today all the friends of God must keep their gaze upon the welfare of the Cause, for both external and internal enemies have appeared with all their schemes, just as the previous Manifestation foretold   BH09209

Be thou in such wise that neither the allusions of them that have turned away, nor the words of them that have disbelieved in God, the Almighty, the All-Compelling, the Best-Beloved, shall affect thee.   BH05921

And regarding what you wrote about Siyyid Muhammad - "Leave them alone in their idle talk" - soon he will find himself in evident loss and will cry out "Oh, woe unto us!" Pay no attention to such souls.  AB03856

O Shaykh! We have learned that thou hast turned away from Us, and protested against Us, in such wise that thou hast bidden the people to curse Me, and decreed that the blood of the servants of God be shed.  BH00005

We called them unto the light, yet they desired for Us the fire. What aileth these people that they understand not a single word from God, the Lord of the glorious Throne and the Lord of the exalted Seat!   BH11184

Beware lest ye follow the desires of those who have denied the Manifestation of God and His proof, and have committed that which hath caused the dwellers of Paradise to lament in this praiseworthy station.  BH11120

The people of the world rejected and denied God's bounty. He appeared to bestow upon all eternal life and everlasting sustenance and rest and prosperity, yet the people turned away and rose up to harm Him.   BH05970

However, the Youth has departed from the City of Mystery, and at the time of His departure the consuls of that city gathered round Him and desired to help the Youth. We found them possessed of manifest love.  BH05461

We have sent down the verses and manifested the evidences and sent down the heavenly table from the heaven of grace, but the people have deprived themselves of that which God, the Lord of lords, hath willed   BH01655

For when a new sovereignty is established, during its establishment, great and varied changes take place. Many of the Ministers and men in charge of souls who are as nothing will be elevated to a lofty post.  ABU0585

"And Abdul Hamid, the Sultan of Turkey, wanted to send me there! Upon receipt of the telegram stating that a steamer would arrive at the port to take me from Acca, I wrote a verse in Turkish to Abdul Hamid"   ABU0284

He who turned to slay those who had faced the Most Exalted Horizon rose up against My murder. But when God revealed what was hidden in his breast, he cried out within himself and committed what he committed.   BH04502

Mention was made of the enmity of enemies and their evil intentions toward the Blessed Beauty, may His mention be exalted. The blessed discourse turned to the corruption and enmity of the people of negation.   ABU1303

If today a single word were to appear from the treasuries of the love of God's chosen ones, the ignorant ones of the earth would arise to extinguish the lights of the Manifestation of Him Who conversed on Sinai.  BH04772

Neither the taunts of enemies, nor the tyranny of the divines, nor the clamor of the theologians deterred them. In tribulations they remained patient, and in times of hardship and adversity they rendered thanks.  BH08537

Baha'u'llah appeared in a country which was the center of prejudice. In that country were many different communities, religions, sects and denominations. All the animosities of past centuries existed among them.  ABU0676

Having accomplished what Thou hadst decreed, and delivered the thing Thou hadst written down, the wicked doers among Thy people would, then, compass me about and would do with me in Thy path as would please them.  BH06196

Praise be to God that thou hast been successful in turning towards Him in days when the mystics, divines, men of letters and princes of the earth have turned away from the Truth, save those whom God hath willed.   BH05650

Hear thou the call of this Grief-Stricken One, who hath been afflicted at the hands of two parties. They have spread abroad, attributing their own deeds to the Ancient Beauty. Woe unto them and unto their doings!  BH11105

Despite this, they all denied it and failed to recognize its truth. Rather, they pronounced sentence of death upon Him, save those whom God preserved through His truth and delivered from the ocean of idle fancies.  BH02945

Say: The sword of hypocrisy is sharper than the sword of steel, were ye to know. My hair crieth out, and my neck asketh: "Was I severed in the path of God?" It answereth: "Yea, by my Lord!" but the people see not.  BH00791

who violated God's Covenant and Testament, disputed His verses and warred against His Self after He had come from the horizon of power with manifest sovereignty...They have cast the Cause of God behind their backs   BH04510

Thou seest my dwelling place in the serpent's mouth, and hearest my cry in this dark pit, and witnessest what hath befallen me in Thy path at the hands of them that deny Thy Self and turn away from Thy loved ones.   BH03680

How many servants desired to come but were turned away at the gate due to what Satan whispered into the hearts of those who ruled in the City, and thereby the eye of Ali wept, and then the eyes of the sincere ones.  BH02417


When the world was illumined by the lights of the Day-Star of Manifestation, the divines engaged in abuse, the false ones in cursing, and men arose in opposition. Finally they pronounced the verdict for His death.   BH01947

Through their turning away every denier turned away and every oppressor arose. To this testify honored servants whom neither the might of tyrants, nor the ascendancy of Pharaohs, nor armies and hosts could frighten   BH05597

His Majesty the Sultan - may God aid him for a time - hath not yet understood the reason for non-interference... The King will eventually become aware of the patience of this Wronged One and of His will and purpose.  BH08564

The people of hypocrisy turned away from Us and desired to extinguish the light of God through their might and their swords. Thus did their souls entice them. Yet they are assuredly among the companions of the Fire.   BH06541

Now it is observed that excellent souls have arisen against the Lord of Names merely for... and have set about to waste the Cause of God. Beseech God that He may guide them and prevent them from this great injustice   BH06470

"neither the derision of enemies, nor the assault of princes, nor the clamor of divines, nor the oppression of tyrants, nor the transgressions of pharaohs could prevent from the Dawning-Place of the Light of Oneness"  BH04528

Thou seest me in the hands of those who have denied Thy mighty signs, who have turned away from the Dawning-Place of Thy most excellent names, and who have opposed Him through Whom Thou didst create earth and heaven.   BH08248

The first to pronounce a verdict against Me and turn away from My Beauty was one of the divines of My time who cast the Book of God behind their backs and rejected the Countenance without any clear proof or evidence.   BH05479

During the years of the Ancient Beauty's sojourn in Iraq, when the divines of Persia rose up in opposition, and likewise the Persian ambassador stood in hostility, and indeed all Persians arose to harm the Self of God  BH00814

"He is incomparable," declared the people, "but he is setting himself against Islam. Such an one is an honor to humanity," they said, "but a detriment to our religion; therefore we must declare ourselves against him."  ABU2802

Finally, however, things came to such a pass that the Imam-Jum'ih himself sent him away, telling him: I can protect you no longer. You are in grave danger. The best thing for you is to leave here, and go on a journey.  AB00002

There has befallen Us that which cannot be counted or mentioned. We had abandoned all and closed the door, yet despite this there occurred that which spread among the servants, and all rose up against Us with tyranny.   BH06927

Internal and external enemies lie in wait to create corruption and sedition. The successors of the notorious Jeroboam are at the height of sedition and corruption. May God protect us and you from their extensive evil.   AB02905

Despite encompassing sorrows, on the right hand is seen the adorned banquet hall and on the left the battlefield. The tyranny of the oppressors and the croaking of the croakers have been and are as the buzzing of flies.   BH08496

The Governor of Akka hath pronounced judgment upon God, the Creator of the heavens. We sustained him, then seized him suddenly... Thou didst desire one thing, but We desired another. The will and purpose of God prevailed   BH06252

Behold ye and call to mind what the divines of Persia wrought when the Lord of Eternity came with power and sovereignty. They denied God's proof and evidence, and committed that which hath made the Pens unable to recount   BH05489

this Wronged One, Who hath been encompassed by the swine and dogs of the earth - they who have risen in opposition, such that by their tyranny the dwellers of thy Lord's kingdom, the Almighty, the Powerful, have lamented.   BH03873

Today most of the people of the earth have risen to dispute with the Beauty of Divine Unity, though they have witnessed with their own eyes in this Revelation that which was never seen or heard in any previous Revelation.   BH03467

The fly hath risen to object, and the lizard hath desired to swim in the Most Great Ocean. Say: Far, far be it! This can never be! All things bear witness to this, and beyond them the Tongue of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH06586

They slay the children of the Messenger, then declare "We believe in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting." The Wolf hath denied God in that he pronounced judgment against the Wronged One without proof or manifest Book.   BH08884

He remembereth thee most often even when He was in the hands of the polytheists. The air of the city was filled with dust, its earth was shaken, its people were terrified, and its fire appeared, but God calmed it in truth.   BH03038

Through what hath flowed from Thy Pen, the hearts of the people of Paradise are set ablaze - how then could they bear to hear what hath befallen Thee from those who have disbelieved in God and His signs from ancient times?   BH02039

while these slanderous souls have penetrated into the roots of various parties and do not let Iran find peace, and they commit whatever corruption they wish while the country's leaders are completely heedless of this matter  AB00560

Sorrows have encompassed Us from all directions through that which hath appeared from the company of the oppressors who have cast the Book of God behind their backs and taken up their own book, following every froward devil.   BH07821

By God! The veils have been rent asunder and the All-Bestowing hath come, riding upon the clouds, yet the people are in evident doubt. The heaven hath testified to the Lord of Names, yet the people remain behind a thick veil   BH05937

Would that you were content with mere rejection! Nay, by His All-Merciful Self, rather you spend your nights and days plotting to shed His pure and holy blood, as was clearly shown by the deception you practiced in that land.  BH00004

Verily, the dawning-places of hatred desired to extinguish the light of God, the Lord of Names, and to quench the fire of the Divine Lote-Tree. By God! The hands of Caesars and Pharaohs fell short - how much more these rabble!  BH10689

My appearance among the loved ones and my standing amongst the enemies in days when every man was shaken and all hands trembled from the might of those days was a clear proof, greater than the proofs of the first and the last   BH00885

Among the news which has reached us by way of the telegraph is that in Baghdad thirty of my well-known adherents have been sent to Jazira without (having committed) any crime or offence, and my property has all been impounded.  BH01440

Thereupon arose the clamor of the polytheists and the cry of the deniers, and they arose to slay me and to frustrate Thy Cause. Thou hast, through Thy hidden knowledge, recorded and known what they have done and continue to do.  BH00160

Whatever action the ministers of the Sultan took against Us, after having become acquainted with its contents, cannot be regarded as unjustifiable. The acts they committed before its perusal, however, can have no justification.  BHU0053

From pulpits they praise and extol the sacrifice of former times, even though that sacrifice was spared and returned in safety, while of the sacrifices of this Revelation, who freely gave their lives, no mention was or is made.   BH02012

They behold the signs yet turn away from them, and they witness the clear proofs yet say: "This is naught but evident sorcery." They have denied God's favor after its revelation and turned away from the Face after its appearance   BH08665



In any case, all souls from among the Arabs, Persians and Turks were pursuing the Ancient Beauty and had risen up in complete enmity, and they did not consider others to even exist, and whatever befell others was merely incidental.  BH00708

Then when the Cause was raised up and the banners were lifted high, the people rose up against it - among them were those who turned away, those who disbelieved, and those who pronounced judgment without any clear proof or evidence.  BH07940

When he saw the situation becoming dangerous in that place, he abandoned the faithful friends and traveled away. Disguised as a dervish he fled to Gilan and Mazandaran and Kermanshah, and caused all those helpless ones to be killed.   AB00432

Every morning I arose from My bed, I discovered the hosts of countless afflictions massed behind My door; and every night when I lay down, lo! My heart was torn with agony at what it had suffered from the fiendish cruelty of its foes.  BH02035


The Shi'ih sect account themselves the most learned and the most favored among all the peoples, yet on the Day of Manifestation they were found to be the most ignorant, the most abject, and the most lost among the peoples of the world.   BH09687

When God preserved Me from his plot, he then arose with another plot. By God the Truth! He hath fabricated such words against Me whose falsehood would be recognized by anyone possessed of discernment though it be less than a barley-corn.  BH01814

The darkness of oppression has encompassed the world, and until this oppression ceases, neither kings nor subjects, neither rulers nor others shall find rest. Each day brings new hardship and fresh corruption, as you have seen and heard.  BH11375

through Whom the limbs of the nations who violated God's Covenant and Testament did quake, and who denied that which appeared from Him, until they pronounced sentence to shed His blood through an injustice at which the near ones lamented   BH05126

Then make mention of the servant who desired to attain the presence in those days when all were forbidden from turning to Him, save those who had shattered the chains of idle fancy and had detached themselves from all who dwell on earth.   BH01351

At one time I behold Thee bewildered in the remembrance and utterance of God, and at another time I observe Thee as one perplexed and pale because of that which hath been perpetuated against Thy Lord by every foolish contumacious oppressor.  BH04347

We have mentioned thee throughout numbered years that thou mightest thank thy Lord and be of them that arise to serve the Cause of thy Lord, by which the hearts of the learned were perturbed and inflamed with the fire of hatred and rancor.   BH01714


And certain souls have become the cause of the waste of God's Cause while counting themselves among the mighty ones. Humiliation shall soon overtake them from every direction unless they repent and return unto God, the Lord of all the worlds.   BH03011

Despite the world's upheavals and its incidents, and the hatred of the former party - namely the Shiites - the Most Exalted Pen hath not ceased from remembrance, and with the most loud-sounding call hath summoned and continueth to summon all.   BH00983

The Persian government showed Him every hostility, but finally desisted, finding it useless. The resistance of the Blessed Perfection against the Asiatic nation can be likened unto one man standing before regiments and overcoming all of them.   ABU1151

Who hath suffered the arrows of the polytheists for twenty years, and Who hath arisen to establish the Cause with sovereignty and power. By God, O people! My heart hath melted, my liver hath been consumed, and my vitals have been torn asunder.   BH01479

At this moment a book from someone is present before My face wherein he hath mentioned the Afnan in unseemly terms. Say: God hath made his seclusion in this place his glory, and he would not exchange this glory for the glory of all the worlds.   BH00609

O my God! Thou didst desire for them the greatest glory, yet they desired for Thee the greatest abasement. Thou didst call them to the cushions of nearness and the luminous pillows, yet they desired for Thee the dark pit and the lowest station.   BH01470

Because these teachings were contrary to the interests and the despotism of the Shah of Persia and the Sultan of Turkey, they arose in opposition and oppression. With all their power they girded their loins to uproot and efface the Cause of God.  ABU1440

The Persian and Turkish governments arose against His Cause, and the result is that both these governments have been disintegrated and broken. Had they been attentive to His commands and received His admonitions, they would have been protected.   ABU0336

The people have turned away from God and His proof, and have disputed His verses until they hamstrung the She-Camel of God with grievous wrong. By God! They have committed that which Abu-Jahl did not commit against Muhammad the Messenger of God.   BH06183

The fatwa of the mujtahid Mulla Hasan Tabrizi calling for the killing of Baha'is and the slanderous proclamations of the mujtahid Mirza Fadlu'llah Nuri and Siyyid 'Ali Akbar which were posted on walls throughout the streets and bazaars of Tehran   AB01314

Thou seest, O my God, how Thy loved ones have been encompassed by the rebellious amongst Thy creatures and the wicked amidst Thy people. No land remaineth but the lamentation of Thy lovers and the wailing of Thy chosen ones were lifted up therein.  BH09809

However, the people of idle fancy have come between Me and those who desired to attain the presence and meeting. They speak according to their vain imaginings that which the ancients never uttered, and thus hath appeared the decree of prohibition   BH08284

From the beginning of the Cause until now, there hath befallen this Wronged One that which hath no likeness or parallel, yet from those who claim to love Him there hath appeared that which causeth the heart to lament and the being to be consumed.   BH00356

We came to Europe and found that some Persians -- individuals of no significance who are entirely unconcerned with religion or the maintenance of order in this world -- stood in opposition to us, and that they even spoke ill of us to the Christians.  ABU3672

His enemies were kings. These kings represented some fifty million people, all of whom under their influence and domination were opposed to Baha'u'llah. Therefore, in effect Baha'u'llah, singly and alone, virtually withstood fifty million enemies.   ABU0038

And when, through divine power and might, the Sun of Truth shone forth from behind the veil, the buzzing of flies emerged from behind the curtains as they arose to object and oppose. And now they have set about to lead astray pure and tranquil souls.   BH08747

No morning dawneth but He is surrounded by the darkness of allusions from those who have denied God, the Revealer of verses. Yet nothing whatsoever preventeth Him from that which He desireth in the Cause of God, the Lord of the Day of Mutual Calling.   BH03607

I beseech Thee by the Lamp of Thy Cause which Thou hast preserved from the winds of rancor and hatred that blew from the hearts of Thine enemies who adorned their heads with that which elevated them among Thy servants and usurped Thy right in Thy name   BH04470

they whom the winds of passion move as they please, until they turned away from a Face whereby were illumined the faces of those near unto God. We commanded them to righteousness and godliness, yet they wander in the wilderness of error and wickedness.   BH07060

What We have said was for the reformation of the world and the training of the souls of the nations. But those who are colored with the hues of the world accepted it not. They attributed oppression to the Dawning-Place of justice, and tyranny to equity.  BH00701

When they witnessed with their own eyes the sovereignty and power of God, they desired to slay Him. When God prevented them from what they desired, they then rose up in calumny and attributed to the Ancient Beauty that which befitteth their own station.   BH03333

From My Most Exalted Pen I have answered thee with that which hath made the limbs of the divines of Persia to quake - they who have taken their vain imaginings as lords besides God and pronounced judgment against Him through Whom the sun hath shone forth  BH02178

Here is His raiment, bespattered with His blood, which we have sent unto thee that thou mayest have clear proof of Our claim. Thus have we inspired thee, and revealed unto thee what befell the Manifestation of the Self of God at the hands of His servants   BH01637


Yet when the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of God's Will, all turned away and rose up in opposition. Would that they had been content with such actions! Rather, they rose up to calumniate and issued decrees for the shedding of pure blood.   BH04192

In most of the Tablets mention hath been made of the cawing of the crows and the clamor of the deluded ones, in the days when the Seat of the Divine Throne was in Zawra (Baghdad), and likewise in the Land of Mystery (Adrianople) and the Most Great Prison.   BH03448

My God, my God! I beseech Thee by the fragrances of Thy verses and the manifestations of Thy power to assist Thy loved ones to be steadfast in Thy Cause whereby the hearts of the divines of Thy earth and the ecclesiastics of Thy lands were sorely troubled.  BH04951

Nevertheless His people did that which caused the dwellers of Paradise to lament. We beseech God that He make steadfast the servants and handmaidens of that land in such wise that the cawing of the crows and the clamor of the transgressors prevent them not.  BH04525

Reflect upon what hath befallen Us at the hands of those who disbelieved in God, the Most Exalted, the Most Great. We called them unto the supreme Paradise, yet they arose to harm Us - thus was the matter decreed, and thou art among those who bear witness.   BH04108

And now the bats of the world's religions are thinking to prepare for themselves a refuge, shelter, dwelling and abode in the darkness of wells and the depths of dark caverns, for they have become utterly hopeless and have witnessed the power of God's Cause   AB03004

After the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, the Ottoman people and government arose against me as did enemies of the area from different nations and religions. In such a state everyone was attacking me from outside and even my brothers from inside opposed me.   ABU1680

They have assailed him and slandered him through their evil surmises and vain imaginings, and have slain him with the swords of their polytheism, and have imprisoned him in the jail of their unbelief, and have banished him from their lands and dwelling-places.   BH07163

The crier hath cried out and the oppressor hath risen in tyranny - to this doth My Most Exalted Pen bear witness. It informeth you of that which hath befallen the Ancient Beauty from the hosts of the polytheists who outwardly and inwardly circle round about Him   BH06151

Now too We have fallen into the hands of Our enemies and have suffered what no eye hath seen nor ear heard. We have manifested the Cause in such wise that anything beyond it would be impossible. Neither the might of princes deterred Us nor the clamor of divines.   BH01317

Observe that despite such clear expressions and explicit identification of the barking one, still these veiled ones remain veiled in the veils of heedlessness. Leave them in their vain disputes to amuse themselves, and leave them to plunge into their confusions.   AB04867

An article in the Broadway Magazine of September, 1906, written by G. A. Dobson and published in New York, was read. It is entitled, "The Strangest Religion in New York." The writer complains of the Ottoman government and its treatment toward the Bahai community.  AB00603

He cherished in his heart a great hate for Baha'u'llah and whenever His Name was mentioned his eyes became red with rage and wanted to pop out of their sockets. Nevertheless he showed us outward courtesy and hospitality [and] did not let his hate become manifest.   ABU1838

Alone and single-handed, His sacred being arose to face all who were on earth. They arose to exalt the Word of God throughout all regions openly and clearly, without any concealment or veil. Before Him necks bowed down, souls were humbled, and voices were hushed.   AB00079

This Wronged One has accepted the harm of the world for the exaltation of the Word and the manifestation of God's Cause. From the earliest days until now, He has been in the hands of the oppressors and the heedless, as all have seen and heard, were they to be fair.  BH04456

some blind ones have fallen behind the veil of concealment, and some ignorant ones have become occupied with their own vain imaginings, thinking it possible that the traces of the Blessed Beauty might vanish and the lights of the sanctified Being might be concealed   AB06398

But when the Cause appeared and the Sovereign of Power was established upon the throne, the idolaters emerged from behind the veil. By God! They committed that whereby the Cause was brought to naught and whereby the dwellers of Paradise in their chambers did lament.   BH05460

The more they increased in their wretchedness, the more did the Glory increase in manifesting His firm and mighty Cause. By God's life! Nothing hath deterred Us, nor hath the oppression of those who disbelieved in God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment, caused Us fear.  BH11523

Among the people are those who have taken a partner unto God, and among them are those who have denied Him - these shall find none to help them. And among the idolaters are those who have said the verses are ambiguous, even as was said before that they are forgeries.   BH02485

Ever has this Wronged One been held captive in the hands of enemies who, without cause or reason, have inflicted that which caused the Concourse on High to lament. Yet whatsoever was visited upon Us in the path of God hath been and remaineth beloved to soul and spirit.  BH11665

How many a learned one hath been debarred from My days, and hath neither inhaled the fragrance of My raiment nor heard My sweet call which hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven, while thou didst turn unto Me and didst recognize and win this mighty and wondrous Cause  BH05608

From all directions complaints have come about Muhammad-'Ali...A person who considers himself a well-wisher of the world and counts himself a patriot, for a few dirhams has written that which he himself knows to be false, thinking these matters are harmful to the Cause.  BH00953

All things have been sullied by what hath welled up in the breasts from the fire of hatred, yet the Cause remaineth unsullied - neither the opposition of the wicked nor the imaginings of them that have disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the Most Praised, can ever sully it.   BH03138

This is the Day wherein the dawn of inner meanings hath broken above the horizon of utterance, and that which was concealed from eyes and hidden in the knowledge of God, Lord of all worlds, hath been made manifest. By the life of God! The Wronged One is in evident wrong.   BH04071

We sent the Wondrous One with clear signs unto him who was heedless and in schism. He committed that which caused the denizens of Paradise and the realities of the Concourse on High to lament. We then left the wrongdoer to himself in wisdom and seized those in the lands.   BH01490

Nevertheless, this Manifestation Who hath appeared with all divine attributes was not accorded even the station of a mirror, for ye have all gathered round Him with the claws of hatred and malice, at every moment busying yourselves with new schemes to undermine His Cause.  BH00004

By God's life! Had it possessed worth and station even to the extent of a needle's point, We would not have chosen what ye witness today of the transgressions of the nations. Those who have perpetrated injustice shall soon be seized with chastisement from every direction.   BH07770

When the Promised One came with the hosts of revelation and inspiration, all the divines of the earth turned away from Him save whom God, the Lord of this wondrous Day, did will. They rose up in opposition until they pronounced judgment against Us with manifest injustice.   BH06542

The oppressors are as children playing with mud. Soon will the hand of power seize them and spread wide the carpet of joy and delight... Soon shall the oppressors pass from their palaces to their graves, and their earthly glory, wealth and exaltation shall come to an end.   BH01167

It is observed that thou hast turned unto Him Who is wronged in all the world, and hast shown attachment to One from Whom most of the peoples of the earth have turned away. What hath come to pass that thou shouldst turn unto Him Whom all have rejected and risen up to harm?   BH05989

If the Turkish government does not welcome us any more, and as we are not of this country let us be free to go into a country of another power. It is to the sovereigns of Europe who like to help the oppressed that we plead, supplicating them to release us from this bondage.  BH08012

The tyranny of the oppressors and the hosts of the heedless move for a day or two like bubbles upon the surface of water, and then return to a state which, were anyone to behold it, they would seek refuge with God from its heat and from whatsoever hath been created therein.   BH07931

By My life! If what hath befallen Me at their hands were to befall thee, thou wouldst weep for My loneliness, then My solitude, then My tribulation between the claws of those who were created by My command. But We have concealed it lest the cry of the sincere ones be raised.   BH01548

We sheltered the speckled serpent in winter beneath My tent, yet when the sun of summer shone forth it stirred and bit Me for the first time - to this do honored servants bear witness. By God! The pens are powerless to recount what I endured from that heedless and veiled one.   BH06237

"God hath decreed for Me what He hath not decreed for anyone in creation, such that with My own hands I clothed one of the wretched ones with the garment of Names and the essence of tyranny with the robe of justice, and commanded Me to strip it and remove it from his temple."   BH02509

One among the people led him astray until he desired to slay Me. When that which was hidden in his breast was made manifest, he cried out within himself. To this bear witness those servants who were with Us when We migrated from Iraq in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH00452

Among the people were those who desired to extinguish My light, those who sought to shed My blood, those who openly turned away, and those who said "He hath fabricated lies about God" - after I had come to them from the Dayspring of grandeur and power with might and sovereignty   BH03439

And when I turn to my left, I hear the clamor of the wicked doers who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs, and persistently striven to put out the light of Thy lamp which sheddeth the radiance of Thine own Self over all that are in Thy heaven and all that are on Thy earth.   BH06576

The Manifestations of tyranny and the Exponents of oppression, who are the divines of the age, have striven with utmost power and might to extinguish the light. Yet they have found themselves impotent and wanting, and ere long shall they find themselves in a most wretched abode.   BH06489

By Him Who holds Baha's soul in His hand, were I to mention what has befallen Me from the enemies in the innermost mystery, the heaven would be rent asunder, the earth would be cleft, the mountains would crumble, the trees would be stripped of fruit, and the seas of their waves.   BH04754

Then did they who harbored hatred for this Youth in their hearts deny Him - this Youth at the sight of Whom the eyes of Grandeur were consoled behind pavilions of impregnable glory. They warred against Him, disputed His verses, and denied the grace that encompassed all the worlds  BH11722

At all times they wait to attribute to Us deeds from which all people turn away in aversion. Despite all this, doth it beseem those who claim to love Us to assist them in their purposes, such that through their actions they cut off Mine arm and become supporters of the hypocrites?   BH00730

The Blessed Beauty did not accept any meeting with the governor, so the Sultan became concerned and telegraphed the governor to definitely come meet Him. So he came into His presence with a group of government officials, and the Blessed Beauty neither stood up nor spoke with them.   ABU0530

When the Bab was in grave peril, all eyes were fixed upon Baha'u'llah. Therefore, Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-Karim-i-Qazvini, whom the Bab had designated as Mirza Ahmad, deemed it prudent that measures be taken to ensure Baha'u'llah's protection, and he presented this matter before the Bab.  ABU0597

How many of Thy loved ones, O my God, are hastening across the Syrian wilderness, yearning for Thy beauty, yet are prevented from attaining the court of Thy transcendent oneness through the deeds wrought by the hands of Thine enemies who have disbelieved in Thee and Thy sovereignty.  BH04569

What do you say if I were to enter once the Shah Mosque in Tehran and say to the opponents "You were searching for me, now I have come myself"? In the early days of Nasiri'd-Din Shah it was a time of martyrdom when immediately upon arrival they would take one straight to the gallows  ABU1167

The Servant of the One has fallen into the well of envy, and the Youth of the Spirit into the prison of hatred, and the Ancient Beauty into the cage of rancor. God shall soon send forth hosts of angels who shall deliver Him through truth and render Him victorious throughout the earth  BH11713

My heedlessness, however, hath deterred me and compassed me about, in such wise that I have arisen to blot out Thy signs, and to shed the blood of Thy loved ones, and of the dawning-places of Thy signs, and of the daysprings of Thy revelation, and of the repositories of Thy mysteries.  BH00005

As is the practice of some newspapers who, while knowing nothing of the teachings of Baha'u'llah, wield their pens with calumnies and speak contrary to truth. Soon the truth will become manifest and nothing will remain for the writer except eternal misfortune and everlasting dishonor.  AB04306

I know not which of My tribulations to mention in this Tablet. By God! Then doth the Spirit of God speak in the heaven of eternity and lament, saying: "O Most Exalted Pen! Have mercy upon the denizens of the Supreme Paradise and mention not what hath befallen Thy Most Glorious Beauty"   BH02428

The tablets that have been written in rejection of God and His Cause - were anyone to have insight, he would witness from what hath been inscribed therein the falsehood of those who wrote them with the fingers of polytheism and who have calumniated God without clear proof or evidence.   BH00578

The whole world awaiteth this Day, and yet they curse and revile those tyrannous souls who in the past inflicted injustice upon the Manifestations of Divine Unity, while they themselves are engaged in that which no oppressor from the beginning of creation until now hath ever perpetrated.  BH11629

O people! Be fair in the Cause of God and deny not His verses, and follow not the ways of the oppressors who utter falsehoods against God, then proclaim within themselves that they may cause the matter to appear dubious unto the servants, and thus do they plot at every moment and instant.  BH01937

In these days, croaking and braying have been raised, and they have sent tablets of falsehood in all directions, and surely they will reach thee also. Thou must, by God's might and power, take up thy pen and write in response whatsoever the breaths of the Spirit of Baha cast upon thy heart.   BH01461

They have taken their own desires as lords unto themselves, to which the near servants bear witness. The horizon of justice hath been seized by the clouds of tyranny, and the lamp of equity surrounded by the winds of oppression. Therefore they speak without awareness and walk without proof.   BH00180

And when the appointed time was fulfilled and the Ancient Beauty rose above the horizon of the world, all parties rose up in opposition. Some clung to their vain imaginings and remained veiled from the Dayspring of certitude, while others held fast to learning yet were deprived of its Source.  BH02981

He Who, no sooner did He reveal Himself, than every believer in the unity of God turned back from Him; every doctor of religion condemned Him; every learned sage repudiated Him; and every jurist who had turned away from God, the Incomparable, the All-Knowing, unsheathed the sword against Him.   BH03951

"The carpenters brought their saws and hammers, the butchers came with their knives, the bricklayers and builders shouldered their spades, all these men, incited by the frenzied Mullas, were eager to share in the honour of killing Him. Inside the Mosque were assembled the doctors of religion."  ABU0065

We disembarked from the ship, and with Us the whole band of Our companions save only four, who were prevented by the oppressors from accompanying Us, and whose hearts so blazed forth that one of them, in his grief at separation from Us, cast himself from the first deck of the ship into the sea.   BH02009

Know thou moreover that the idolaters have surrounded Us from every side. Then he whom We had taught in these days and who was wont to stand before the Throne morning and eventide, when he felt secure in himself, arose in opposition in such wise as hath left all in the realm unable to describe.   BH01183

These have so vehemently rent the veils asunder that the dwellers of the cities of self have wept, and fear and trembling seized the people of envy and wickedness who, adorning their heads and their bodies with the emblems of knowledge, have proudly rejected Thee and turned away from Thy beauty.   BH07682

"This is a Book which the All-Merciful hath sent down unto him who hath turned and attained unto the knowledge of God on a day wherein the divines turned away, and through their verdict the rulers, and then those servants who violated the Covenant of God, the Lord of the Day of Mutual Summoning."  BH04060

Thou seest Thy righteous servants among the wicked ones of Thy creation, and Thy noble friends among the rebellious ones of Thy creatures, who have denied Thy manifest proof and the appearance of Thy clear Name, such that they oppose them however they please and do with them whatever they desire   BH03504

In these days the Beauty of Divine Unity is afflicted in the hands of the basest of His creatures. But they are pure nothingness and sheer nonexistence, for power and might and glory and exaltation, and likewise all names and attributes, are all praiseworthy and beloved in their relation to God.   BH01571

However, the recompense of their deeds has prevented the people of the earth from turning to the Self-Subsisting. The near ones and the sincere are bewildered, for it is observed that most of the people of earth have remained far from the Luminary of certitude due to idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH05973

Him Whom the power of princes hath not weakened, nor the might of divines frightened, nor the dominion of any oppressor deterred, nor the opposition of any rejecter hindered, nor the cawing of any crow impeded, nor the denial of those whose deeds have prevented them from acknowledging and testifying.  BH01501

When that Most Great Luminary appeared and called out with the most exalted call, desiring that you might understand the meaning of but one of these matters, you failed to do so. All of you, clinging to these fabricated fancies, objected to that Divine Tree and martyred Him with the worst oppression.  BH01053

The enemies have encompassed from every direction, yet the Wronged One hath held fast to the strong cord of God. Neither the opposition of the world nor the fear of the nations hath deterred Him, nor will they deter Him. Without veil or concealment He hath summoned all to that which He was commanded.  BH04938

Thou seest Thy Afnan and Thy loved ones in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures, who were so overcome with pride that they denied the parties of the world. But when the test came, they denied Thy right, disbelieved in Thy signs, broke Thy covenant and Thy testament, and disputed Thy proof.   BH02924

How many of the great ones, the divines and princes, who in the nights and days would supplicate and seek after the appearance of the Truth, and when the Most Great Luminary rose above the horizon of the world, they all remained veiled by the veils of their own idle fancies, save whom thy Lord willed.   BH08105

Even in times when there was not a moment's hope of safety outwardly, as you have all seen and understood, when enemies from all sects lay in ambush for this celestial bird...Tablets have arrived from the land of Sad, and all are certain that that wicked associator has written falsehoods and calumnies.  BH01528

The lights of the Face have been altered by the slaps of them that have ascribed partners unto Thee, and the holy fragrances have been cut off from all creation by reason of what they have committed before Thy face, after Thou didst create them for Thyself and didst command them to appear before Thee.   BH01437

What did it profit thee, and such as are like thee, to slay, year after year, so many of the oppressed, and to inflict upon them manifold afflictions when they have increased a hundredfold, and ye find yourselves in complete bewilderment, knowing not how to relieve your minds of this oppressive thought  BH07995

We had intended to send unto each one of you who have turned toward the Countenance manifest verses, but We have been prevented by the oppressors who have encompassed Us from every side. Woe unto them for what their hands have wrought in this vain life! Soon shall they find themselves in manifest loss.   BH04479

Blessed art thou for having attained unto the trace of the Most Exalted Pen and been mentioned by the Lord of all being while He was in the hands of those who denied God's favor after its revelation and rejected Him Who came from the horizon of proof with verses that equal not what the princes possess.   BH03583

The ears have been prevented from hearkening and the eyes from beholding the horizon of the Manifestation of the Lord of Names by reason of that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought--they who claim knowledge yet oppose Him through Whom the ocean of divine knowledge hath surged within creation.   BH00453

And yet whenever there was any slight evidence of progress and advancement, those concealed behind the veils would sally forth and utter calumnies more wounding than the sword. They cling unto misleading and reprehensible words and suffer themselves to be deprived of the ocean of verses revealed by God.  BH00111

And now, united in their hatred for this Youth, they have written epistles rejecting God and sent them to all regions. Soon they will reach you. If these epistles are examined with an eye unclouded by imitation, by God! the lies of the liar and his ignorance will be as manifest as the sun in mid-heaven.   BH00620

They have passed over the station wherein the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - declared "Verily I am the first of the worshippers," and have clung to a station of which they have not been and are not aware. Would that the people knew who exalted Him and who mentioned Him!   BH03956

I swear by the righteousness of the One true God! The Pen is unable to move by reason of that which hath befallen its Lord, and it weepeth sore, and so do I weep, and likewise weepeth the eye of Him Who is the Essence of Grandeur behind the Tabernacle of Names while seated on the Throne of His glorious Name.  BH00354

The clamorous ones have appeared with deception and guile, desiring to veil the lights of the Sun of Truth with the clouds of their idle fancies and to prevent Its shining forth. They have contrived calumnies whereby they have prevented those helpless servants from the Dayspring of the Light of Divine Unity.  BH00349

Thou knowest how I stood against the enemies with a sovereignty more manifest than the sun in its meridian. Thou wert not in Iraq in the days when nations and governments rose against Me - some saying "Let us seize him and send him to the King of Persia," and others saying "He will surely be taken and [...]"   BH00899

They wrote letters in the name of one of My loved ones, wherein they wrote whatsoever they wished that would disturb nations and governments. Then they contrived until these letters reached the princes, whereupon the fire of sedition and calamity was kindled and the winds of might and destiny were stirred up.   BH03368

The government of S was disturbed, imagining that the shedding of the blood of the oppressed would remove its great sin against His Majesty the Sultan. God knoweth, and thou knowest, for what purpose the Wanderer turned towards this land, and how his petitions were rejected. His commander rose up in opposition  BH10960

In the land of Ya, barking has been raised. The heedless oppressor, imagining that he hath conquered a realm, hath arranged a great celebration at night. Through this deed his measure of understanding and perception hath become evident. Soon shall he bewail his own self and shall behold it in grievous torment.   BH09647

None hateth Thee save he who knoweth not his father. The desires of those who know not their left from their right have raised him up. Those who cannot distinguish between the valuable and the worthless, the fat and the lean, have taken him as their protector instead of God. They are assuredly among the losers.  BH01590

I lay asleep on my couch, O my God, when lo, the gentle winds of Thy grace and Thy loving-kindness passed over me, and wakened me through the power of Thy sovereignty and Thy gifts, and bade me arise before Thy servants, and speak forth Thy praise, and glorify Thy work. Thereupon most of Thy people reviled me.   BH00591

The ignorant people in that time were captives of doubts and suppositions, and when they heard the blessed utterance, they would mock and ridicule, saying how could this exile to Iraq kindle a flame to the horizons, and what power hath this oppressed soul to establish a divine foundation and a celestial palace?  AB00443

The horizon of bounty hath been illumined and earth and heaven have been made to shine, and yet most of the people remain in doubt and dissension. They have clung to their own desires and have opposed Him through Whom all things have proclaimed: The Kingdom belongeth to God, the One, the Mighty, the All-Choosing.  BH11618

O thou who standeth in service to the Cause! Reflect upon the oppression and tyranny of the people. For forty years or more this Wronged One commanded the people of God to observe what is praiseworthy and forbade what is blameworthy... Nevertheless, each day some harm appeareth and some tyranny becometh manifest.  BH02652

Be not disturbed by those who have wronged Us. Soon shall We seize them as We seized the transgressors before them who transgressed against God in those regions. He, verily, is the Powerful, the Determiner. He who pronounced judgment against Us hath been seized by the breaths of chastisement from every direction.   BH01000

Thus did We suffer at the hands of these people. By God! The eyes of the world have never witnessed its like. If thou wert to become aware of My suffering, thou wouldst weep over My state and lament in thy days, fleeing from all who are on earth to dwell upon mountain peaks, crying out with the cry of the bereft.   BH00724

Hearken unto what the idolators say. By God! What issueth from their mouths curseth them though they perceive it not within themselves, and they are drowned in the depths of idolatry. They claim faith within themselves yet deny Him through Whose single letter the decree of faith hath been manifested in every age.   BH00604

At first, the governor's palace was consumed by fire; the decree which that heedless ruler had sent concerning these wronged ones to this place perished along with the palace. The subsequent rulers, being unaware of the circumstances, knew not how to proceed, for neither the decree nor the previous ruler remained.   BH03090

As thou seest, they have all turned toward this All-Knowing Beauty with swords of the tongue and arrows of polytheism from every direction, although He appeared with such clear proof and came with such manifest power that from the beginning that hath no beginning until now, none hath heard or seen the like thereof.   BH01682

When my detractor's censure cometh from one who is himself deficient, it is but testimony that I am perfect. Leave them to their vain imaginings. Await the arrival of the ambassador. First and foremost, set all matters in order. If complete assurance of the vindication of rights is obtained, then make your petition.  AB04523

In these days when all stand in enmity save whom God willeth, verily the heedless one seeketh to prevail over Us through oppression and armies, while We seek victory over him through the Near One, the Strong, the Mighty, the Powerful. Neither the power of the powerful nor the fierceness of the wicked shall deter Us.   BH07956

And likewise there befell Him such oppression from the oppressors as caused grief to the Concourse on High. And when the Luminary of God's Will, exalted be His glory, illumined the horizons, the people of discord emerged from their ambush and, with swords of hatred and animosity, attempted to slay the Lord of Names.   BH05633

They said: "You have come with a white hand and radiant scrolls which our souls do not desire. You are but one of the mischief-makers." Whenever We recited clear verses unto them they said "These are forgeries," and when We showed them what their likes were powerless to produce, they said "This is manifest sorcery."   BH02060

This Wronged One is afflicted each day with fresh calumnies. Glory be to God! Lies and calumnies have reached such a point as cannot be recounted or expressed. Each soul who turneth toward this direction, from behind the hill arriveth word that he hath stolen large sums of money from merchants and brought it to Akka.  BH00967

Among them were those who sought to take My life, and those who said He hath fabricated a lie against God, even after each of My deeds testifieth to God's Manifestation, His sovereignty, might and grandeur. Thus do We recount unto you that which We have reckoned. Verily your Lord is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH00813

My brother, prompted by Satan, twice submitted petitions to the Pasha of this land and committed other acts that are not fit to mention. Consider now the baseness of that soul and those who relied upon him, and the harm done to this servant - perchance thou wilt learn of some of the tribulations that have befallen Us.  BH04846

Nevertheless, the enemies of the Cause, these inequitable people, who in order to undermine the truth of the Faith will stoop to spread any and all lies, have written that despite all the complaints by the Blessed Beauty of the conditions of the Most Great prison, He lived in gardens and orchards. Consider how unfair!   ABU1970

And among the opposers was he who said that He had fabricated lies against God [...] Among them were those who objected, and those who united with them that pronounced their verdict against the Primal Point for my injury, and those who arose to slay me, and those who forbade the servants from my love and my remembrance.  BH00705

O Mahdi and Mahdi! Associate with people with perfect submission, contentment and goodly character, and be sagacious in the divine Cause, for today the deniers of the Manifest Beauty lie in ambush with utmost deceit. At all times take refuge in the Beauty of the All-Merciful and be protected in the fortress of His mercy.   BH01359

They have risen against Us with such tyranny as hath weakened Islam, yet most of the people remain heedless. They have driven Us from Our homeland to preserve their dominions, but when We departed there entered therein such as desired it through oppression, whereat the hearts of them that are nigh unto God have lamented.   BH00714

This fueled the enmity of the priests. They published certain polemics, calling 'Abdu'l-Baha "the false prophet and antichrist." One cardinal even followed the Master to Denur. The cardinal traveled under the pretext of inaugurating a new church; in reality, his intention was to assail the Cause, for he spoke against it.   ABU1262

The Protestant missionaries were amazed at our Love, and they were greatly disturbed and grieved exceedingly over it. They wonder what has cemented the Americans and Persians! This has caused the greatest enmity to appear among some of them. They do not know that the factor is the Love of GOD and that It has thus united us.   ABU0958

The slinking whisperer hath appeared with My letter amongst the people, thinking thereby they would assail the Dayspring of the Cause and thereby diminish God's sovereignty over all else. Thus did his soul entice him, and the word of punishment from the presence of the Mighty, the All-Encompassing, was fulfilled against him.   BH01732

Furthermore, how can one speak of these ungrateful people whom you know, who harbor such envy in their hearts and conceal such malice in their breasts? They breathe not except in accordance with their own desires and seek naught but their own passions, even as He saith: "Seest thou him who taketh his own passion for his god?"  BH01176

Hearken unto My voice from the direction of tribulation. Verily, there is no God but Him, and He Who hath appeared with the truth - neither doth the decree prevent Him from making mention of the Lord of Names, nor do the veils of them who have disbelieved in God, the Exalted, the Great, conceal Him from that which He desireth.  BH02169

The text mentions how religious authorities (ulama) would claim the Baha'is' honesty was artificial: "The ulama would even declare from their pulpits that the honesty and trustworthiness demonstrated by the Baha'is was beyond human capacity, though they would say the Baha'is act this way artificially in order to attract you."   AB00453

When the opposers found assurance within themselves and the breezes of security wafted from this holy, wondrous and blessed right hand side, they came forth with arrows, then spears, then swords of hatred, smiting Me at every moment with all their might. Thus were they recorded among the oppressors in tablets of ancient glory.   BH01315

Praise be to the Intended One who was not prevented by the hatred and malice of the people of tyranny and wickedness, nor by the calumnies of enemies, from His sacred and all-compelling purpose. The clamor of princes and the whisperings of divines did not hold Him back from manifesting His Cause before the faces of all parties.   BH02326

The dwellers of the Crimson Ark - namely the people of Baha - have, with Abraham's strength, shattered the idols of vain imaginings and idle fancies. How many souls counted themselves among the most learned, yet when the divine Word - which was the true touchstone - appeared, all returned to their stations save whom God wished.   BH00985

Even Mirza Muhammad-'Ali had promised the Investigation Committee that I have letters and correspondence from so-and-so who opposes the government - God forbid! Later he apologized saying it was not possible to obtain them, but that the book Mifta? Babu'l-Abvab, though critical of me, would suffice, as would the treatise Bushra.  AB05961

When these who associated partners with God and denied Him and His signs witnessed that the banners of the Cause had truly appeared and the Sun of Expression had risen from the horizon of grace, they arose to spread lies and calumnies, that they might cast doubt into the hearts of those who were gazing toward the sacred direction.   BH01408

Consider thou the condition of these people after they had all testified that I had sacrificed Myself and My kindred in the path of God and to preserve their faith. I remained among the enemies in days when all souls were agitated and they concealed their faces from friends and foes alike, being occupied with preserving themselves.   BH00627

Regarding His Majesty the Sultan, in most of the Tablets there hath flowed from the Pen of the Lord of all beings that which diffuseth the fragrance of favor. Nevertheless, for forty years he hath not restrained his wrath for a moment, and thus have the rulers acted in ways the like of which the eye of creation hath never witnessed.  BH10993

During this period, this Wronged One clung to goodly exhortations and sufficient, healing counsels until it became evident and manifest to all that God hath appeared for the revelation of the treasures deposited within human souls. After all these trials, neither the princes of the state were satisfied nor the divines of the nation.   BH00272

Grieve not because of those who have wronged. Soon shall We seize them as We seized the factions before them. Through their oppression hath the Cause been uplifted and the mention of thy Lord's name spread throughout the lands. Through their opposition hath acceptance appeared and through their tyranny hath the sun of justice dawned.   BH00414

Ye have driven Him from the land and knew not His worth, and God is witness unto this. Ye have visited upon Him that which was visited from before, and now do the denizens of the highest Paradise cry out. Say: O people of hatred! Rejoice not in what ye have done, for God will seize you with a vengeance that is indeed severe in justice.   BH05552

The members of the ministry, the divines, Abdul-Aziz, Fuad Pasha and Ali Pasha caused the Blessed Beauty to depart from Baghdad, striving to extinguish the divine flame and hoping that this Sun of Truth would suffer an eclipse. With this hope they persisted, and Sultan Abdul-Aziz issued a decree to banish the Blessed Beauty from Baghdad  ABU0351

O my Lord! Thou seest how the world is consumed by the fire of heedlessness and desire, and how the hearts of them who are nigh unto Thee are melted by reason of what hath befallen them at the hands of Thy wicked servants who have cast behind their backs Thy Cause, violated Thy Covenant, disputed Thy verses, and warred against Thy Self.   BH00307

Although after prolonged days of separation the period of reunion also passed briefly, yet thanks must be offered that in these times, despite the multitude of enemies and the opposition of the people of tyranny and wickedness and the paucity of helpers and the attacks of the wicked, He made possible the means of meeting beneath the Tree   BH03571

I complain not of anything; I love all that hath befallen Me and befalleth Me in the path of God. The soul that in nights and days hath been under protection and favored with grace and engaged in service, through the instigation of an ingrate, intended harm against the Wronged One. And when We departed, tumult arose and clamor was raised.  BH00518

Guard thyself in the time when the cry of the Calf is raised amongst you. Beware lest ye draw nigh unto it or unto those from whom ye detect the odor of hatred toward this Most Holy, Most Pure, Most Glorious, Wondrous Youth. Soon shalt thou witness the deniers engaged in a deception the like of which hath never been witnessed in creation.  BH11255

How many houses were raised for My remembrance and adorned with My name, yet when I revealed Myself they barred Me from them - thus did their wretchedness overcome them, and today they are among the most lost. They spent what none can reckon save God to exalt My remembrance, yet when I came to them they denied God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH08967

We have witnessed no good from thee in all the worlds. In God's knowledge, none is more remote than he who hath slain the letter Ha' in the Qur'an, and God will never deliver him from the fire. And thou art more remote than he, for he committed his deed behind the veil of Ha', while thou hast desired to act behind the veil of the First One.  BB00003

By God! I arose to establish the Cause in days wherein hearts were troubled and souls lamented by reason of the assault of wrath, as attesteth He with Whom is a glorious Book. By the life of God! Every confessor denied, every manifest one became hidden, every dweller fled, and every tranquil one was seized with fear from dread of those days.   BH04807

In these days truthfulness and sincerity are sorely afflicted in the clutches of falsehood, and justice is tormented by the scourge of injustice. The smoke of corruption hath enveloped the whole world in such wise that naught can be seen in any direction save regiments of soldiers and nothing is heard from any land but the clashing of swords.  BH00308

In these days a person arrived who has been made governor of this city and its surroundings. The flames of his tyranny have reached everyone, and particularly this Wronged One. He has committed that which has caused all things to cry out. Whatever he has seen among the people he has demanded and taken, and whatever he has imagined he demands.  BH08213

The martial array, the clashing of swords, the guns of the enemy and the weapons of the wicked have been as though non-existent. No hosts can frighten Him, no multitudes or ranks can render Him powerless. He speaks before the face of all the world, despite those who have denied God's signs and His proof, and who desired to extinguish His light.  BH00146

The tribes of 'Ad and Thamud did unto ?ali? and Hud that which caused the Divine Lote-Tree to lament and the Concourse on High to cry out, as doth testify this wronged, grief-stricken and lonely One. By God! They crucified the Spirit, hamstrung the She-Camel, and shattered the Ark. They have slain My chosen ones and plundered their possessions.   BH00416

Consider how the enemies have surrounded the temple of the Cause from every direction: Muslims from one direction, Christians from another, Azalis from yet another and the infidels from all bearings. They all have circled the Faith of God and, with utmost determination, are working to eradicate this blessed Tree and totally obliterate its name.   ABU0592

As for the Surih of Unity, the Shaykh of the land of ?ad came to the land of ?a, inflamed with the fire of hatred, making mention that the divines should translate the Surih of Unity and distribute copies thereof to all people, that they might know that the Truth "begetteth not, nor is He begotten," while the Babis believe in divinity and lordship.   BH02502

Praise be to God Who hath manifested the Most Great Name, to the despair of the peoples who denied the Proof of God and His evidence, who disputed His verses, who disbelieved in His favor, who pronounced sentence of death against Him, and who cast aside His Book which He made an enduring testimony from Him to all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH02731

Glory be to God! The Sun of certitude is shining from the highest horizon of the world and the Dove of Utterance is warbling upon the loftiest branches. Nevertheless, the people are occupied with calumnies and speak forth falsehoods. The lies of the past have come forth and what was rent asunder hath been replaced by that which is even more grievous.   BH01985

The clamor raised in places of darkness held Him not back from His purpose, nor did the calumnies of the people and the opposition of the hypocrites prevent His loved ones from turning unto Him. We have manifested the Cause despite every stubborn tyrant and sinful calumniator. Neither the weapons of the world nor the hosts of the nations hindered Us.   BH01518

Furthermore, denial hath reached such a point that they seek to become a barrier between the Beauty of the All-Merciful and the people of creation, even as they have sent tablets of associating partners with God and embodiments of hatred to all lands, and forbidden all servants from approaching the direction of the All-Merciful and the Self-Subsisting.   BH00614

We have heard what thou didst speak before the one who turned away from God, exalted be His glory, and followed his passions. Verily, he is of the rebellious faction. He cast the Book of God behind him and took what his self and desire commanded. This tongue, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, doth testify to this. Say: Die in your wrath, O people of hypocrisy!  BH01794

These heedless souls have, through such calumnies, prevented the hapless servants from the Truth, just as previous factions prevented people from the Lord of all beings through vain imaginings. On the Day of Judgment, imaginary cities and false claims appeared as swords, and there befell the Lord of the world that which caused the atoms of creation to weep.   BH00975

Among the people are those who have denied the signs and proofs of God, and among them are those who have turned to God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. Verily, he who hath turned unto Him is extolled by those in the Kingdom of Command, while he who hath turned away is cursed by the denizens of the realm of Might and those who circle round His glorious Throne.   BH06551

"Although those divines who blindly uphold custom and the leaders of ignorance and iniquity display themselves boisterously now and parade themselves haughtily before the people, ere long ye shall witness these same persons seeking to hide like an owl in a dilapidated niche, running to the cavity of perpetual loss, and falling into the pit of eternal damnation"  AB01376

This is only a summary of the words of Abdul Baha and was written from memory and should only be so given out. The substance is here, but the talk was more explicit and covered several other points, such as the life of Mohammed Ali, his constant intrigues to kill or have Abdul Baha put out of the way, which is far from a Bahai life, even if he was in the right.   ABU0340

In these lands, one appeared by the name of Mahdi and none turned away from him. Now some hundred thousand souls have gathered around him although his true state is unknown. Yet when the Dawning-Place of divine verses and the Manifestation of the divine Self appeared in Iran, the divines gathered together and subjected Him to the gravest abasement and martyred Him.  BH11871

I make complaint unto thee concerning those who claim to love Me yet commit that which grieveth My heart, who follow their own desires and abandon that which they were commanded by One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise. Thou knowest that should people witness any unseemly act from those who claim to love Me, they would attribute it to Mine own oppressed and lonely Self.   BH02744

We summoned all to the Water of Life, yet they pronounced judgment against My Person with manifest tyranny. We made clear unto them the Way and gave them glad-tidings of the bounty of the All-Glorious, yet they rose up against Us with grievous oppression. They seized My name and My chosen ones with such tyranny as caused the dwellers of the most exalted Paradise to weep   BH06748


The peoples of the world have ever striven throughout the ages and centuries to extinguish the light of the Eternal Beloved, and with the utmost persistence and effort have attempted to cut down the blessed Tree and quench its fire. However, God has manifested His Cause as He pleased, despite those who denied His proof and His evidence, His Revelation and His sovereignty.  BH00809

Among the people are those who turned away from Him, those who opposed Him, and those who issued unjust decrees against Him - decrees that caused all things to lament, and behind them the denizens of Paradise wept at eventide and at dawn. They denied God's bounty after its revelation and perpetrated that which caused the very rocks to cry out and hearts and minds to melt.   BH05238

The people of God suffered themselves to be killed rather than kill. During the events that came to pass, they were the embodiments of utter meekness and even interceded on behalf of the murderers before the governor. Yet the envy and hatred of the heedless only increased; this bountiful grace held no value in their eyes and brought forth no fruit or result. But on account of the meekness of the people of God and their lack of any aid or helper, he who is the possessor of armaments arose to redress the wrongs. Absolute meekness yieldeth many a result and beareth many a fruit.  BH00159

Thou seest Thy chosen servants in the hands of the wicked ones who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs... Such is the extent of oppression that whenever anyone seeketh Thy presence, he is prevented from attaining unto the court of Thy mighty oneness, and whenever a soul turneth toward Thee, he is cast out by the idolaters who have denied the Manifestation of Thy Self.   BH08262

No spot remaineth in my body that hath not been struck repeatedly by the swords of Thine enemies. Hearest Thou not the cry of the oppressed, O Thou Who holdeth in Thy grasp the reins of all the worlds? Wilt Thou not answer him who calleth upon Thee? Wilt Thou not dispel the afflictions of this poor, wretched soul whom Thou hast placed at the mercy of all, both high and low?   BH00677

Know thou that the tale of weeping hath returned in this Most Glorious Youth, whom His wicked servants have cast into the well of darkness. By God, the Truth! O youth who walketh in the atmosphere of love and faithfulness! The garment whereof every thread proclaimeth "There is none other God but Him, the Most Exalted, the Most High" hath now been pierced by the spears of hatred.   BH01024

Let not the words of the unbelievers grieve thee. They are a people who perceive not. Say: Do ye rejoice in the tribulations that have befallen Us? By God! We have accepted them in God's path, and from beneath the sword We summon mankind unto the Lord of the Day of Judgment. None on earth can deter Us from that whereunto We were bidden by thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Choosing.  BH01343

O God! Cast down the Tree of negation and annihilate it as though it had never existed. O God! Raise up the Tree of affirmation and manifest it in such wise that no manifestation or exaltation is possible above it. For that Tree hath ascended to the ultimate heights in the path of Thy love, while this one hath descended to the uttermost depths through what its hands have wrought.   BB00051

Thus doth the Youth counsel thee at a time when sorrows have encompassed Him from the manifestations of Satan, and He findeth no helper nor supporter. We desired to mention unto thee what was ordained in the stations We have described to thee, but the Breath of God was restrained from His mouth by reason of what the hands of hatred from His wicked servants have wrought against Him.   BH00710

Great is the Cause of this Wronged One, for He neither flattered the princes nor concealed God's truth and His Cause from the divines. In the Most Great Prison, openly and clearly did He proclaim that which was opposed to the desires and passions of the people of the earth, save those who cast away all else but God and took what they were commanded by the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH00300

O Zayn! Upon thee be My glory! We are surrounded by the wolves of the earth, and there hath befallen Us that which hath befallen no one before. The door of lies, calumny, greed and passion hath been opened in the great city, and they have wrought that which hath caused every truthful one to lament, every just one to cry out, and hath burned the hearts of them that are nigh unto God.  BH11636

Therefore weep thou for this Lord by reason of what hath befallen Him such as hath befallen no one before, and there hath touched Him of afflictions that which causeth the spirits of the denizens of the realm of divinity to be cut off beyond the pavilion of holiness in the Most Exalted Paradise. Then was the table of the spirit withdrawn from the mouths of them that are nigh unto God.  BH00227

The might of the world deterred Him not, nor did the hatred of the nations stay Him from His purpose. In days when, by reason of the darkness of tyranny, no distinction could be seen between night and day, He stood forth before the faces of all peoples, unveiled and unobscured. Neither chains nor fetters could prevent His independence, nor could bonds and imprisonment alter His Cause.  BH00333

But when He appeared and His countenance shone forth amidst all the worlds, there arose against Him idolatrous servants: among them were those who denied His verses, those who said "I shall reveal the like of what God hath revealed," those who said "He hath fabricated against God," and those who said "He speaketh from desire." Thus did it befall the Youth, if thou be of them that hear.   BH00596

Among them, one day came a delegation of religious scholars. One of them said, We were awaiting the promised Mahdi. Then a Shirazi Siyyid claimed to be the Mahdi, and a number of people followed him. After that, we were awaiting the appearance of Husayni. Now you have claimed that station. Your duty is to study Sharh-i-Lum'ih and Sibavayh until you return completely to your proper station.  BHU0029

Yet thou canst not comprehend what hath befallen thy Lord from one whom He reared night and day and taught speech as they teach parrots in India. When he had learned a word or part of a word, he grew proud before God as leadership over the rabble of the earth possessed him, until he pronounced the death sentence against Me without any proof from My All-Powerful, Almighty, Invincible Self.   BH00732


The acting governor of Amul succeeded in effecting Our release from captivity. Through an opening in the wall that he ordered his men to make, he enabled Us to leave that room, and conducted Us to his house. No sooner were the inhabitants informed of this act than they arose against Us, besieged the governor's residence, pelted Us with stones, and hurled in Our face the foulest invectives.  BHU0003

Two heedless ones in the great city have arisen to bring about ruin, and with a few dirhams have led Akhtar astray to publish calumnies. But far, far be it! Soon shall they witness their own impotence and the recompense of their deeds from God, the Just, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Through these intrigues they have sought to become acceptable to the enemies and the wicked among creation.   BH04120

Among the people are those who have been attracted by the sweetness of My call, and We have sent down for them that which was a fountain of life for all who dwell within the realm of possibility. And among them are those who turned away from the Face, following every doubting learned one. And among them are those who arose in opposition, and those who pronounced sentence of death against Me.  BH01060

The Qaim-Maqam of Haifa, with utmost enmity, prevented the construction of the Shrine of the Bab. He had instructed the Tapu official that this edifice being built on Mount Carmel south of Haifa was of unknown origin and contrary to order, and since it overlooked the city, it required the Sultan's permission to be built. The official then wrote a report stating there were political concerns.  ABU0244

Those who hesitate this day are a people who shall not be helped. They cling to their vain imaginings as did the servants before them. They are indeed a blind people. Vain desire hath prevented them from My Most Glorious Name, and they hasten in the wilderness of error. When it is said unto them: "Come ye to the Dayspring of the Cause," they say: "Sufficient unto us is that which we possess."   BH01641

The recent events in Yazd provide sufficient and conclusive evidence. Despite men being disemboweled and beheaded, several women being wrapped in rugs and cast into blazing ovens, some children being slain in dust and blood, properties being plundered and pillaged, and homes and dwellings being destroyed - despite all this, not a single soul uttered any impropriety, nor did they even complain.  AB00176

To this end he conferred with one of My servants and sought to win him over to his own designs; whereupon the Lord despatched unto Mine assistance the hosts of the seen and the unseen, protected Me by the power of truth, and sent down upon Me that which thwarted his purpose. Thus were foiled the plots of those who disbelieve in the verses of the All-Merciful. They, truly, are a rejected people.  BH00007

Indeed, they have prominently cited this verse in all their tracts. Consider carefully, however, the judgement they have pronounced against this single-handed and lonely servant! Within their epistles they allude to mine alleged claims to Godhead, to Lordship, and to partnership with the Blessed Beauty, and then they write this verse both upon the covers of these epistles and within their pages.  AB00005

People like Farid destroy themselves and cause us trouble. With great difficulty I have brought seekers into the Faith, and how unabashedly he turns them away! We plant trees to blossom and bring forth goodly fruits, and he cuts them down. The reason is that his heart desires deadwood. He wants to extinguish the light because it is only then that he can steal. That is why he does not want light.   ABU1071

Consider how in the past year the enemies and ill-wishers of this wronged one rose up with utmost corruption and cast every slander and calumny upon this exile. They prepared petitions and sent them to high officials. An investigative committee was dispatched from the seat of supreme sovereignty and, by chance, they stayed directly at the homes of the accusers and became the guests of the enemies.  AB11322

In the Most Exalted Threshold, a certain Isfahani, despite being shown the utmost favor, has united with the enemy of God and has incited certain base individuals who revile the believers. They have committed that which no oppressor has ever done. The fire of greed and avarice has seized them; they have misappropriated large sums belonging to the servants of God under the pretense that it was stolen.  BH00019

Say: Doth not My tribulation among the servants suffice you, wherein We were manifest among them like the sun in the midst of heaven, and there befell Us what hath befallen no one before? Yet withal We desired no help from you and We put Our trust in God, the Mighty, the Exalted. This is the extent of their understanding in this vain life, and in the hereafter they shall have no helper nor supporter.  BH01529

In these days they have written from the Land of Sad that Mirza Hadi Dawlat-Abadi, having heard that some had called him a Babi, was overcome with perturbation and fear. For several days he ascended the pulpit and openly cursed Cyprus and those who dwell therein. Then, God forbid, going beyond that station, he turned to attack the Supreme Being, namely the Point, may our souls be a sacrifice for Him.  BH04609

And after that, he shall bear the wrath of God with divine anger, and for him shall be a grievous chastisement. Behold the champions of that band and their wolves who turned not unto any of the perfect ones...By Him in whose hand is my soul, if God were to subject all the kingdom of this world to me, it would not equal a single letter of these verses, nor a word glorifying before the Divine Majesty.   BB00073

When the mujtahids and Nasiri'd-Din Shah sent Shaykh Abdu'l-Husayn to 'Iraq, and he began agitating against the Blessed Perfection (Baha'u'llah), the mujtahids gathered at Kazimayn to talk of waging a holy war, and they appealed to the Vali for help. When the Vali replied that he could not intervene, they sent letters to Baghdad, and a very large number of Persians and Shi'ih Arabs congregated there.  ABU0063

"The Hand of Power then parted the veil of grandeur, whence the Beauty of the All-Glorious emerged with supreme sovereignty. When He Who is the Self of God, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful, purposed to pass through the gate, the Most Great Spirit made its final proclamation: 'By God! The Well-Beloved of the worlds hath departed from His House by reason of what the hands of the oppressors have wrought.'"  BH00379

O Afnan! Upon thee be the peace of God, His mercy and His loving-kindness. The smoke mentioned in the Book of God hath seemingly appeared in these days. The fire of greed, lust, passion and calumny hath so seized the oppressive and slanderous souls that its smoke hath darkened the realm of justice and truthfulness. God shall soon seize them through His sovereignty. He, verily, is the severest of avengers.   BH01158

My God, my God! I testify that Thou didst create the princes and ministers to champion Thy Cause and exalt Thy Word, yet they have aided Thine enemies. I beseech Thee by Thy Cause that hath encompassed existence and by Thy Name through which Thou hast subdued the seen and the unseen, to adorn the people of the earth with the light of Thy justice and to illumine their hearts with the radiance of Thy knowledge.   BH00685

Those souls who have arisen in opposition today were each in hiding and occupied with preserving their own lives. In any case, praise be to God, the Cause hath been exalted. Now whoever wishes may come forth to the field and say what he desires. Glory be to God! These mentioned souls were not with Us and were unaware of the root of the Cause, and now some have clung to calumnies that have no likeness or reality.   BH01599

We reared one of Our brothers and protected him beneath the canopies of Our grandeur. Yet when the Light shone forth he turned away from Us and arose in such oppression that the Pen lamented and the ink cried out. By the life of God, he sought to shed My blood, having been led astray by one of Our servants. When We departed from among them, he arose and uttered that which caused the tears of the righteous to flow.  BH11872

Then did all arise in opposition. Among them were those who said: "This is naught but a man who hath forged a lie against God, the Ancient of Days." And among them were those who said he was possessed, as did one of the divines declare in My presence - and We are witness to this. And among them were those who said: "He speaketh not from his nature, but hath stolen God's words and combined them with his own words."   BH01079

They have reckoned the Dawning-Place of Supreme Mercy to be among the mischief-makers. We do not like to mention curses, otherwise We would say: The curse of God be upon the oppressive people. Let it not be thought that the oppressors are the rulers of the earth; rather, they are the divines thereof, for they were the first souls to turn away, to rise in opposition, and to kindle the fire of hatred among the servants.  BH03223

O faithful companions! The Cause, that divine Essence, hath reached such a pass that they have sullied that pure and subtle quintessence with the turbid waters of their selfish desires, and the people of the realm of mortality have veiled that Essence of immortality with the garment of passion and self. To every land they have dispatched tablets, inscribed with fingers of animosity, denouncing that subtle creative force.  BH11688

Thou seest me, O my God, as a target for the arrows of hatred and the object of the spears of rancor from souls whose insight and vision are blinded, whose ears are deaf to the melodies of the birds of mysteries, and whose hearts have hardened like rocks - nay, even harder - from which no rivers can gush forth. Lord! They are blind and deaf, and they aim their arrows at Thy humbled servant without shame, fear, or modesty.  AB11046

We have been afflicted among the people of Syria in whose hearts is concealed hatred for God, thy Lord, the Lord of all mankind. The peoples were promised the Lord of the Day of Remedy, but when He came with the truth, they turned away from the face of Beauty. The land of Syria was given glad tidings of the land of God, but when He came, they turned away from Him and arose in such hypocrisy as the eye of creation hath not seen.  BH01754

He whom the idolaters have taken to themselves as their lord, whereby they have risen in opposition to God, the mighty, the august, the beautiful--he was just like any of the servants. He used to come into my presence morning and night. Then there wafted upon him from the region of his base self the gales of passion, as a result of his past behavior. Finally, they cast him down off his seat and abandoned him in the lowest depths.  BH03710

In those days the restrictions were exceptionally severe. The gates were shut, the roads closed off. Wearing a disguise, Nabil arrived at the 'Akka gate. Siyyid Muhammad and his wretched accomplice immediately hurried to the Governorate and informed against the traveler. He is a Persian, they reported. He is not, as he seems, a man of Bukhara. He has come here to seek for news of Baha'u'llah. The authorities expelled him at once.  AB00002

Even though in these days He has come forth from the Most Great Prison with the utmost power and first adorned the garden with the ornament of the Greatest View, and then proceeded to a palace which is more elevated than all the palaces of these lands and is renowned in these realms, nevertheless one day He uttered a word which this servant himself heard, and that word indicated and proved that He preferred the Most Great Prison.   BH00862


The sinners shall be known by their marks. This is the Day wherein the secrets of hearts and the betrayal of eyes shall be revealed. Today in the Great City there hath appeared that which was hidden. They have clung to calumnies that have no likeness, neither now nor ever. No sooner doth anyone turn towards this land than instantly telegraph messages arrive claiming that such-and-such person hath committed theft and gone to 'Akka.  BH00056

These books, some published thirty years ago and others twenty years ago by the enemies themselves, are now in people's hands. Thus do the friends say to the wavering and the ignorant: Bring forth your book that we may show you the divine proof. When the book of refutation is presented, the friends point to these verses quoted from the Kitab-i-Aqdas and the Book of the Temple addressed to the sovereigns. Thus is the denier confounded.  AB01692


Praise be unto the Desired One of all worlds, Who, despite the opposition of the divines, the disregard of the jurists, the might of princes, and the clamor of the men of learning, hath caused the Supreme Pen to move and, through that essential motion which hath proceeded from His prevailing and compelling Will, hath never ceased to summon all the peoples of the earth unto the court of the Lord of eternity, throughout the days and nights.  BH01768


O my God! Thou knowest the decree concerning that wherein people have differed regarding the Book, and how the divines of fire have confused the word of truth with falsehood before the rulers, and what the oppressor hath done unto Thy noble and honored servants, in such wise that it hath surpassed the tyranny of those who came before, and no Muslim would be content with such treatment of another Muslim, nor hath its like been seen in Islam.   BB00172

In the time of oppression, when hearts were troubled and pillars trembled, this Wronged One arose alone before the faces of the world and raised His call. And when the fragrance of the garment of His Revelation was diffused and had appeared in certain lands, they emerged from behind the veil with swords of rancor and hatred, and said that which no oppressor had ever said before, and perpetrated that which no bloodthirsty one had ever wrought.  BH00628

In brief, this most great Luminary appeared suddenly above the horizon of Persia, and all the people of that land, whether ministers, divines, or the general populace, rose against Him with the fiercest animosity, claiming that He was bent upon annihilating and extinguishing their religion, laws, nation, and empire, even as had been said of Christ. Yet Baha'u'llah, alone and single-handed, withstood them all without faltering in the slightest.  AB00029

Say: By God! There hath befallen Us what hath not befallen any of the Manifestations of old, and I have been tried in the mouth of the serpent, and none knoweth this save My mighty and beloved Self. At first he desired to slay Me, but when God frustrated his desire, he then arose to calumny, and there flowed from his pen that which he himself witnessed, showing no shame before Him Who created and nurtured him, and taught him morning and evening.   BH00447

Against Whom His weak servants who had believed in Him in His previous Manifestation have risen up. When He appeared in another garment they denied Him - nay, the curse of God be upon the liars! They were wont to conceal their faces in fear of their own selves, but when We made manifest the Cause with evident sovereignty, they emerged from behind their veils and concealment and warred against God, their Lord, the Most Merciful, the Compassionate.   BH00545

Last year one of the Ottoman pashas became governor in this city. Although his name outwardly was Muhammad, yet a hundred Abu Jahls were concealed within him. Upon his arrival, the fire of hatred blazed from him night and day, in word and deed he would cause harm, although outwardly nothing had occurred to cause displeasure or grief or anything above or below that. Through numerous tricks and new schemes he demanded the house, which was relinquished.  BH00897

Were anyone to tell them: "The World Reformer is come", they would answer and say: "Indeed it is proven that He is a fomenter of discord!", and this notwithstanding that they have never associated with Him, and have perceived that He did not seek, for one moment, to protect Himself. At all times He was at the mercy of the wicked doers. At one time they cast Him into prison, at another they banished Him, and at yet another hurried Him from land to land.   BH00662

Moreover, consider how in this divine cycle infinite power has become manifest and evident. In the past, those who were veiled attributed ignorance and incapacity to the Divine Manifestations. One would say "Ye follow none other than a man bewitched," another would utter "He hath forged a lie against God or is possessed," and another would declare "When they see thee, they treat thee only as a jest saying 'Is this he whom God has sent as a Messenger?'"   AB00052

Despite all this, all denied Thy truth and turned away from Thy beauty and showed pride before Thy presence, and none answered Thee in this and none turned to Thy good-pleasure, and they visited upon the Dawning-Place of Thy beauty that which maketh the Pen tremble to recount and the ink to weep for what befell Him and the people of Paradise to lament for what descended upon Him and the dwellers of the heavens to cry out for what was inflicted upon Him.   BH01699

If the heart of any of the servants of the sovereign were to be troubled by thee for less than a moment, thou wouldst be disturbed instantly, and if thou deniest Me in this, the sincere servants of God would bear Me witness. Yet thou dost object to Him Who hath been opposed by governments over the course of several years, and upon Whom there hath descended that which hath caused the Faithful Spirit to lament, until He was imprisoned in this remote prison.  BH00151

During those years that He lived in this Home the enemies found an opportunity to forward false reports to Constantinople to the fact that Baha'u'llah has fled out of Syria. This report was garbed with a semblance of credence and reliability, because He did not receive any strangers nor did he leave the house. From the Sublime Porte Ahmad Bay Tufik and Khorshid Bay, a Hungarian, the Commander of the garrison, were commissioned to investigate this matter.   ABU0996

The doubters and transgressors have forbidden the servants from reciting the dawn prayer whose preface is adorned with this Most Exalted Name. With utmost clarity hath been mentioned that which causeth the hearts of the polytheists and the opposers to be consumed, for He saith that the Most Great Name is present and mentioned therein. Nevertheless, they have deprived the people of the outpourings of the True Bestower that lie hidden in those remembrances.   BH01493

"O My Afnan! Upon thee be My Glory! The oppressors sought victory over Us through their might, but We sought victory over them through God, the Strong, the Prevailing, the Powerful. The Pharaohs desired to extinguish the light of God with their armies, the tyrants to shed His blood with their swords and ranks, and the Caesars to erase His traces with their strength, power and might. Thus did their souls entice them to a course of which they were unaware."   BH00451

When they expelled Us from thy city, they placed Us in such conveyances as the people use to carry baggage and the like. Such was the treatment We received at their hands, shouldst thou wish to know the truth. Thus were We sent away, and thus were We brought to the city which they regard as the abode of rebels. Upon our arrival, We could find no house in which to dwell, and perforce resided in a place where none would enter save the most indigent stranger.  BH00021

As soon as He came down, however, from the heaven of majesty and power, Thy servants stretched out against Him the hands of cruelty and sedition, and caused Him to be afflicted with such troubles that the scrolls of the world are insufficient to contain a full recital of them. The eyes of the world were gladdened at the sight of Thy luminous countenance, and yet the peoples have united to put out Thy light, O Thou in Whose hands are the reins of the worlds!  BH02597

Whensoever the Cause of God was exalted and the Day-Star of His Revelation shone forth, some heedless one would emerge from behind the veil and act in such wise as would cause the servants to hesitate. In the Land of Mystery [Baghdad], despite the manifestation of the mubahalih [spiritual contest], and the exaltation of the Word, Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani rushed to Mushiru'd-Dawlih--upon him be the Glory of God--seeking refuge and requesting a daily stipend.   BH01084

Despite the flames of hatred and malice and the shedding of the blood of the loved ones, all have clung to the cord of patience and resignation, and deemed it impermissible to transgress the divine command. Strange it is that the King of Iran hath not yet become aware of the divine favor, patience and forbearance. We have beseeched and continue to beseech the Truth that He may enlighten the sovereign. His true enemy is his son Zillu's-Sultan - all know this.  BH08300

The harm inflicted upon the Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name came not from the princes and ministers, for whatsoever they committed was due to lack of awareness. I swear by the Sun of Truth which shineth from the horizon of the prison, were they to become adorned with the ornament of awareness to even less than a mustard seed's weight, they would become detached and freed from what they possess and would turn with acceptance toward that which is with God.   BH04661

Some Iranians reported that Taqizadeh was saying the Baha'is are infatuated with despotism and are enemies of liberty and constitutional government. Despite this, I did not say a word. I returned to the East and then after the American journey came back to Europe. Many Iranians came to me saying that Taqizadeh was insisting greatly and through various schemes wanted to prove in the public eye that you are an enemy of constitutionalism and supporter of despotism.   AB00119

Is there any supporter who will assist the Youth in these days wherein intoxication hath seized the dwellers of the heavens and earth save those who gaze toward the direction of nearness in this Beauty. Then He addresseth further: Say with thy inner tongue: Is there any helper who will help the Beauty of the Most High in this latter Manifestation? Is there any supporter who will assist the Latter Point Who hath appeared in this bright, most luminous Manifestation?  BH01053

And when, as bidden by Thee, I arose and called out, by Thy leave, all Thy creatures, the wayward among Thy servants opposed me. Some turned away from me, others disowned my claim, a few hesitated, while others were sore perplexed, notwithstanding that Thy testimony was set forth before the followers of all religions, and Thy proof demonstrated unto all the peoples of the earth, and the signs of Thy might so powerfully manifested as to encompass the entire creation.  BH01386

Now they object to Him, saying why He does not act according to the deeds, even though all deeds revolve around His Cause. Observe the condition of the servants - yet they consider themselves possessed of sight, hearing and understanding. And what sorrow could be greater than these objections raised against the Beauty of Divine Unity? And what sword could be sharper than the sword of the tongues of these manifestations of Satan that at all times wound the Body of God?  BH04610

O thou manifestation of bounty! How can I recount unto thee what hath befallen Me at the hands of him whom We created by Our command and whose name We exalted among Our remembering servants? When he witnessed the loftiness of the Cause and the exaltation of His name amongst the people, he desired to slay Me. When the hidden secrets of his heart were revealed, he raised an outcry within himself that he might cast the rancor of God into the hearts of the rebellious ones.  BH00711

'I am well aware,' he gently insinuated, 'of the nature and influence of your activities, and am firmly convinced that were it not for the support and assistance which you have been extending to Mulla Husayn and his companions, neither he nor his band of inexperienced students would have been capable of resisting for seven months the forces of the imperial government... I have been unable to obtain any evidence whereby I could establish your complicity in this affair.'  BHU0018

Sorrows have encompassed the Lord of all possibility and His loved ones through what hath been perpetrated against Him by the manifestations of idle fancies and vain imaginings. By the life of God! The Supreme Pen hath lamented in the Most Exalted Horizon, and Zion hath cried out, and the Mount of God hath crumbled through what the hands of those who denied God's proof and evidence have wrought after their confession, and who disbelieved in the Witness and the Witnessed.   BH00281

During the autocratic reign of Abdul Hamid, while I was closely incarcerated in the town of Acca, a man with a suspicious character called on me... At first glance, I realized that he was a spy of Abdul Hamid, and that he had been sent here expressly to find whether there were any political secrets in our Movement... It is most strange that Sultan Abdul Hamid was not even content with our imprisonment, but he sent continually a host of spies to pry into our open affairs.   ABU0604

In Iran the clergy and leaders wrote many books to refute this Cause, seeking to eliminate it and completely destroy its foundation. One of those souls was Haji Muhammad Karim Khan who wrote several books, but they were all effaced [...] One of those souls was Haji Muhammad Karim Khan who wrote several books, but all of them were effaced and forgotten while the Cause of God became renowned throughout East and West and was spread among all the peoples and nations of the world.  ABU0310

This is a remembrance from the Wronged One to those in the realm of possibility, that it may draw them near to the Kingdom of My Name, the All-Merciful - the station wherein is heard the rustling of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha and the murmuring of the Kawthar of eternity. Blessed is he who hath attained, and woe unto the heedless who have cast the Book of God behind their backs and taken their vain imaginings as lords beside God. They are indeed among the oppressors in My mighty Book.   BH00523

At this present hour the Ancient King hath purposed to take leave of this wayward people. Yet none knoweth whether, even after His departure, this Essence of God's mercy will be spared the sting of these venomous serpents, as was clearly witnessed after His first banishment. O Rasul! Canst thou perceive the plight of this wronged and banished Soul Who findeth Himself sore tried by two contending peoples, and Who hath neither the pity of His foes nor the compassion of His friends?  BH01865

Today, whatever will be manifested from the deeds of that heedless party is clear and evident to the loved ones of God. They draw nigh unto what was mentioned at the beginning of the Tablet, and they understand. Whosoever attains unto this counts the world as non-existent, let alone the braying of the ignorant mentioned in the Scriptures and Tablets. From Kaf and Ra it appeared. Glory be to God! Despite their ignorance, they have uttered that which no idolator before had ever said.   BH00441

These birds of the heaven of divine love have partaken of the grain from the sacred threshing-floors of divine unity and have heard holy melodies of spiritual import. They can hardly be ensnared by worldly devices, nor can they be debarred from their Lord, the Lord of all worlds, through the whisperings of the words of such as turn away and join partners with God. Those who pursue this matter shall gain naught but regret, and have received and shall receive nothing but weariness and torpor.  BH00004

In these days enemies have compassed Us about, and the fire of hatred is kindled. O peoples of the earth! By My life and by your own! This Wronged One hath never had, nor hath He now any desire for leadership. Mine aim hath ever been, and still is, to suppress whatever is the cause of contention amidst the peoples of the earth, and of separation amongst the nations, so that all men may be sanctified from every earthly attachment, and be set free to occupy themselves with their own interests.  BH00005

O My leaf! We have been encompassed by sorrows from all directions through that which the hands of those whom God created to aid My Cause have wrought, for they have instead aided Mine enemies who have pronounced judgment against Me with such injustice as hath caused the Holy Spirit to lament. Though outwardly His Majesty the King and the Minister remain silent and have even shown some measure of kindness toward this community, inwardly they persist in and act according to their own desires.   BH01417

They accused us before the government of such deeds which if any one had committed he should deserve to be condemned to death. For instance, they asserted that we had founded a new dynasty and established a new religion. The enemies even made a banner on which they displayed the Holy Words 'Ya Baha'ul-Abha', and sent it to The Porte, saying that we had hoisted that banner and carried it through the city among the tribes of the Arabs and incited the Arabs to rally around us to raise a revolt.   ABU1285

O people of God! Defile not your hearing with unseemly utterances, and preserve your sight from the ophthalmia of vain imaginings. The unjust ones of the world have assailed this Wronged One from behind the veils like unto wolves, and with the sword of falsehood and calumny have sought to attain unto a station which God, exalted be His glory, hath sanctified from their comprehension. They have appeared with the utmost tyranny and injustice, and are occupied with misleading the hapless creatures.   BH00575

As regards the Seyyed of Qum concerning whom you had written, there are many details about him and in truth this servant is ashamed to mention them. However, some will be mentioned so that his condition may not remain hidden from some. He it was who spat on the face of Quddus in the presence of the polytheists in the land of Tabarsi, and who struck the face of the Great One [Baha'u'llah], reviled Him, and professed unbelief, saying what he said - all to preserve his own wicked self for a few days.  BH00373

Sometime later, however, all his love and affection changed to anger and enmity. This happened because one of the friends arranged for a big celebration during the festival of Ridvan, which had coincided with Ashura, and he had openly demonstrated his joy and happiness. This incident made the Shi'i community extremely angry and caused Shaykh 'Abdu'l-Hamid to become such an enemy that, with a gun in hand, he went to the blessed house in the middle of the night to kill all the people who lived there.  ABU0800

Never was it imagined that treachery and falsehood and calumnies would appear in the world to such an extent. In any case, they acted according to the decree of their guide - surely you know who their guide is. We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to assist the treacherous ones to trustworthiness, the liars to truthfulness, and the calumniators to justice and fairness. The treacheries committed have caused grief to the people of the city of justice and fairness. Each day a new calumny appears.   BH00894

After these abhorrent acts, they entered Akka and began complaining to the Pasha and others, claiming "Three of us were sent to another place by the Persians who attacked us," whereas no one had molested those souls. It seems they were raised in the school of falsehood and grew up in the college of calumny. In brief, there were several days of dispute, and every soul said something, until finally it became clear and evident to the government that these prisoners and captives had not molested those heedless souls.   BH01322

The contents of your letter brought joy and spiritual ecstasy, for it indicated that the arrows of calumny from the foolish did not reach their target of established slander. Glory be to God! How many temples have the Christians, how many mosques have the Jews, and how many temples have the ancient Chaldeans between Basra and Baghdad! And the Shi'ites consider all these groups to be idolaters, yet they do not interfere with any of them. However, because this house is associated with the Baha'is, they have risen up with utmost persecution.  AB01560

They pass judgment upon Thy chosen ones according to their desires and act according to their own inclinations in ways that cause the dwellers of the pavilion of infallibility and the tabernacle of grandeur to lament. O Lord! Thou hearest the sighs of the denizens of the Most Exalted Paradise at what hath befallen Thy loved ones in Thy days, and the cries of the inhabitants of the cities of names at what they have witnessed from the oppressors among Thy creation who pronounced judgment against Thee and sought to slay Thee by night and day.  BH00439

Similarly, this mystic has awakened too late. Now that the Most Great Call of the Ancient Beauty has spread throughout the realms of possibility, and the lights of His glory have encompassed the East and West of contingent being, and the waves of the ocean of His utterance have inundated the face of the earth, this helpless one has taken to writing refutations, and by chance has written a refutation against the honored Imam himself, that the blessed verse "Deaf, dumb, blind - they will not understand" might be fulfilled and made manifest.   AB00125

Consider those who deemed themselves the most exalted of people and counted themselves among the saved community - how with but a slight test they were found more rebellious and transgressing than all the sects of the earth. Say: O friends! By the sun of the horizon of divine knowledge, this Wronged One hath had and hath no purpose save the salvation of mankind. At a time when all kings and subjects arose in opposition, this Wronged One summoned all on earth to the Most Exalted Horizon with the loudest call and guided them to the straight path.  BH00119

O Herald of the Covenant! Days pass during which there has been a lapse in communication and correspondence. The reason is that the fire of corruption has blazed so intensely that all affairs have been disrupted, even the sending of letters has become difficult, and many letters have fallen into the hands of officers. An investigation committee has appeared, casting all hearts into anxiety, and this search and inquiry is founded upon injustice, meaning that his honor the brother and his secret and open agents are in the most grievous corruption.  AB00203

His Majesty the Sultan hath acted in a manner that is manifest and evident, for as they have written, his blessed heart was moved of its own accord to release, with utmost honor, His Holiness Ismu'llah and those with him (may the Most Glorious Glory of God be upon them). Specifically, a trusted one went from among them to serve them, and likewise some of the princes mentioned to them with affection that We could accomplish nothing. Whatever we submitted was not heeded, until today when His Majesty the Sultan, of his own accord, sent us to take you out.  BH00023

They consider this community orphaned, with no father to protect them and no mother to lament their afflictions. Certainly a community without helper becomes the target of the arrows of the ignorant and the swords of the opposers. In a land where justice is absent and equity is severed, such a realm becomes an arena for the manifestations of rancor and hatred. They do what they please and say what they desire. This oppressed community has associated and continues to associate with perfect love and firm kindness, and has never intended aught but good for any soul.  BH00165

In days which, through the tyranny of the oppressors and the rejection of the followers of religions, were like the darkest night, this Wronged One arose before the faces of all to render assistance, such that the effulgences of the light of the Luminary of Revelation became manifest from every direction. Then emerged from behind the wine-jars the embodiments of tyranny with swords of hatred, and there appeared from them that which testified to their lies and to the calumnies of their own selves, whereat the Tablet lamented and My glorious, wondrous Pen cried out.  BH01576

The divines, mystics and jurists of the earth, by night and by day, beseeched God, glorified be His majesty, for the meeting with His Manifestation and Speaker. Yet when the ocean of hope surged and the horizon of divine purpose dawned forth, all turned away - especially the Shi'ih sect who, with their tongues, uttered curses and, with their pens, issued verdicts for the shedding of His most pure blood, and with their hands wrought that which causeth the company of the Prophets and the chosen ones in the most exalted paradise and supreme station to weep and lament.  BH03776

When I realized that they are again on the track of their old tactics, trying to make me say the word "yes" to their extortionate demands, one day I called the Motosarraf to my house and told him defiantly. "Do not make any more struggle. You shall fail in all your secret machinations. There is a destined period for my imprisonment. Before the coming of that end, even the Kings of the earth cannot take me out of this prison and when the appointed time has passed, all the emperors of the world cannot hold me prisoner in Acca. I shall then go out. Rest thou assured of this!"   ABU0355

When they witnessed the exaltation of the Cause, the fire of their opposition intensified and they strove to veil the Sun of God behind the veils of hatred, and in the City of the Command they were among the mischief-makers. Until the decree of destiny was manifest once again for the departure of His Most Exalted Being, and the sovereign requested to meet Him and witness His Cause, though they were secretly among the plotters. They schemed and deceived until they imprisoned Him in a mountain whose name none had heard and which was unknown among men, and in this mountain they made Him to dwell.  BH00327

The government of Iran, seeing that some Iranian citizens showed and still show affection towards me, determined to act against me. Every day, the Iranian consul would write a complaint to the (Ottoman) officials. Since I observed that such developments would lead to mischief, I explained things to the Governor of Iraq, Namiq Pasha. He felt that it would be wise to adopt Ottoman citizenship, and so some of my friends chose to become Turkish citizens. This, however, was contrary to the wishes of the government of Iran, and it was for this reason that they started in earnest to take action against me.  BH01047


This servant has ever been distressed and saddened by the tribulations of this Most Great Announcement and what hath been visited upon it by the enemies, to such extent that he seeth no deliverance for himself therefrom, for the Truth did arise to promote His Cause for forty years, without helper or assistant, and through the power of His Word did set the world in motion, such that from all directions they arose to investigate this Cause. And when the light became resplendent and the Cause manifest, the deniers emerged from behind the veil and wrought that which every possessor of ears heard and every person of insight witnessed.   BH01210



For several days he protected and safeguarded the Bab from the interference of the evil clergy   AB01600

O companions! Ye have followed the example of the Blessed Beauty and have endured calamities in the path of the loving Friend.  AB03804

the divines of Khorasan will raise an uproar, and when the uproar becomes general, the government will not be able to resist it   AB05263

in these days when you have gained freshness and grace through blows, strikes and slaps from the hands of oppressors in the path of God  AB06959

O man! Thou hast committed in God's days deeds which no man of knowledge would commit. What right hast thou to harm Our weak followers?   BB00439

At first they engaged in cursing and reviling, and in the end they issued the verdict for and carried out the shedding of His most pure blood.   BH01946

Praise be to God Who tested all through My patience upon this mountain, that He might distinguish the evil from the good, and all were thereby tested.   BB00461

successive calamities and consecutive afflictions and the general onslaught of the unjust from without and within had so taken the reins from my hands   AB07035

both the learned and the ignorant among them, at the bidding of these souls, strove to extinguish the divine light and martyred the Dayspring of verses   BH02201

In truth, such joy and delight has been experienced that I cannot describe, for that holy throne had been greatly dishonored by the people of darkness.   AB01406

"One of our friends was branded seventy times. Others had their noses cut off. Yet others were hanged upside down, until all their intestines fell out."  ABU1985

Description of believers being turned away, imprisoned or exiled when trying to visit, including specific examples of Nabil, Mulla Ali Qa'ini, and others  ABU0383

These good people have suffered a great deal for the Cause, they have suffered exceedingly. Musselmen, Jews and Christians (Protestants) all persecuted them.  ABU1556

while the fruit of those heedless souls' deeds was the martyrdom of the Primal Point Who gave the glad-tidings of this Most Great Announcement to all created things.  BH11824

"Say: Have you forgotten, O servant, the days when if any among you would enter into the presence, people would drive him away and even curse him with great wrath?"   BH02017

The people of the world have denied this most great favor, though the Cause is manifest, verses have been revealed, and clear proofs are evident, the Light is radiant.  BH02013

The heavens and the earth and all between them wept at the loftiness of thy affliction, and the kingdom on high unto the lowest atom grieved at the sublimity of thy calamity.   BB00223

The ranks of the polytheists, the multitudes of the deniers, the might of the people of tyranny and error, and the tumult of the ignorant could not prevent His penetrating Will.  BH04702

When Thou didst manifest Thyself, those who were the manifestations and dawning-places of knowledge rose against Thee, approaching Thee only with the swords of malice and hatred.  BH00268

Behold, then remember what befell the Youth in the nights and days at the hands of those who cast the Book of God behind their backs, clinging to idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH00506

While claiming faith in the Bab, they have visited upon His Messenger and Revealer that which no oppressor hath ever wrought, and have uttered that which no idolator hath ever spoken.  BH00025

There hath appeared from among the people of Sad that which hath caused the near ones to lament. They have slain the family of the Messenger, imagining that they were helping the Cause of God   BH09011

Consider how the Bab--may my spirit be sacrificed for Him--endured all tribulations in the path of this Cause, and ultimately became the target of a hundred thousand arrows with such oppression.   AB00180

When we reached at this part we thought we disembark, perchance we may find some of our compatriots who will be willing to assist us. Here we stand in your presence, hungry and naked and needy.  ABU0434

Hearken unto the call of thy brother at the time when He was afflicted at the hands of those who desired to put Him to death without any clear proof from His Lord, the Merciful, nor any manifest evidence.   BH10514

This purified body that for fifty years, out of fear of the enemies' desecration, could not be placed anywhere, for the enemies were lying in wait and had they gotten hold of it they would have burned it.   AB02585

"The friends of God, on the other hand, will shine brilliantly above the horizon of eternal glory. If ye ponder deeply, ye will perceive that troubles incurred in the path of the Peerless Lord are a gift."  AB01376

The trembling of tests and trials has seized the regions of Iran. The ranks have been arrayed, thousands have attacked, and swords have been drawn against the loved ones of the All-Merciful in that vast land.  AB01144

Consider the Shi'ih sect. For years they considered themselves the best of creation, yet with the slightest test it became evident they were the basest of servants, as evidenced by their martyrdom of the Bab.   BH00317

When he was about twenty-two years old, he was arrested, having become a disciple of the Bab...The people cried 'Crucify him.' Then turning towards her the mob cried 'And now let us kill this foolish mother.'   ABU1090

One day they summoned Him to the mosque urging and constraining Him to recant, but He discoursed from the pulpit in such wise as to silence and subdue those present and to stablish and strengthen His followers.  AB00003

When the friends had gone hungry for eighteen days, the enemies let them out from the fortress and swore not to injure them. The friends came out and laid down their arms. All were killed except a few who escaped.   ABU0489

The Mullah finding himself completely defeated by this matchless, simple answer, said "My father does not teach this way." The Governor seeing that he is going to launch on the sea of vituperation, said "It is enough!"  ABU1775

The divines of Persia turned away from Him and opposed Him until they slew Him with tyranny whereat the heavens wept. They followed their own desires and denied Him in Whom they had believed throughout ages and centuries   BH04265

They committed that which neither 'Ad nor Thamud committed, and inflicted upon the Husayns of this age that which the Jews were not willing to inflict upon the Spirit (Christ) and which Abu-Jahl did not decree against the Messenger.  BH03168

They have kindled with their own hands the fire of affliction; yet are the people in a wondrous stupor! So besotted have they become in the drunkenness of their evil passions that they have perpetrated that whereat the cloud hath cried out.  BH04720

He is a Babi, was the answer. God forbid! cried the man from Shushtar. I know him well. Khajih Muhammad-'Ali is a God-fearing Muslim, a Shi'ih, a devout follower of the Imam 'Ali. With this he gave the farrash a sum of money and Salman was freed.  AB00002

When the Most Great Gate was opened and the Ancient Luminary appeared, they occupied themselves with cursing and reviling Him, and finally pronounced and carried out the death sentence against Him - such that the Bridge trembled and the Balance wept.   BH04282

Observe how when We sent Muhammad, the Messenger of God, the people denied Him and expelled those who believed in God and His verses from their homelands. This is from the way of thy Lord which hath been ordained in ages past, would that ye might know.  BH11830

The Zoroastrian friends are heavenly souls who have received their portion and share of tribulations, sedition and tests in Yazd and its surroundings. They have endured injuries, heard reproaches, witnessed persecution and encountered a thousand forms of hardship.  AB09533

The faithful ones dance and stamp their feet in the field of sacrifice, raising the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha!", and the true friends, despite the onslaught of the hosts of hatred, cry out "Would that I had been with them, that I might have achieved a great triumph!"  AB01637

The people of the Furqan spent one thousand two hundred years polishing the swords of rejection and protest until finally they fell upon the pure body of the Mystery of existence and the Educator of the seen and unseen, cutting down that Sacred Tree. God's curse be upon them!   BH02990

If His Holiness the Bab did not become the object of oppression and persecution and if he was not imprisoned and sent away from Shiraz to Esphahan, then Teheran, Tabriz, and Makou and if he was not at last martyred for His Cause - the Truth would have not been established in Persia.  ABU0621

Now when the accomplished divines of Adhirbayjan perceived that in all the parts round about Tabriz it was as though the last day had come by reason of the excessive clamor, they requested the government to punish the [Bab's] followers, and to remove the Bab to the Castle of Chihriq.  AB00003

all the divines of Persia arose in rejection and denial, and unwittingly pronounced judgment against the very Manifestation Himself, whereat all things raised their lamentations. By the lights of the Sun of Truth! They perpetrated such an injustice as hath never appeared in the world   BH02499

The party that counted themselves the most mighty, exalted, learned and ancient of the world, and who day and night made mention of the Qa'im, ultimately all issued the death sentence against that Luminary of the heaven of inner meaning and martyred that Essence of being with the worst torment.  BH00273

The believers in Persia have had great tests. For example, their properties have been confiscated; they were imprisoned; their families were exiled; and in the end they themselves were martyred. They were subjected to such tests, yet in the arena of martyrdom they were crying aloud; Ya Baha el Abha.   ABU0698

Know thou that I am in the two prisons through what the hands of the two parties have wrought, and there befalleth Me at every moment that which none can reckon save God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds. Yet in this most grievous tribulation, We summon the peoples unto God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH00257

Praise be to God Who has afflicted me with tribulation. I praise Him for what has befallen me of hardship and adversity through the wrongful actions of the people of polytheism and rebellion. To God do I pour out my grief and sorrow, and those who have acted unjustly shall soon know what fate awaits them.   BB00489

Nasiri'd-Din Shah, however, because of the ignorant action of the believers in the early days of the Cause, whenever he strokes his limbs and feels the pellets under his skin, is roused in anger to commit these harsh deeds and adopt tyrannical measures against the friends, spilling the blood of innocent people.  BHU0019

The true spiritual stars that had dawned from the horizon of the heaven of divine knowledge have set, due to the oppression of the oppressors, and have ascended to the Supreme Companion. Tyranny reached such a pass that every hearing ear perceived the lamentation of the rock and the wailing of the divine Lote-Tree.   BH05010

These falsehoods became the cause and reason for the martyrdom of the Primal Point. Reflect a while on the deeds of the Shi'ih party and the fruits of their actions on the Day of Resurrection, and make mention of them to the servants, that perchance they may not again be caught in the grip of former vain imaginings.   BH01131

during the severe days of the Manifestation the Cause would become so difficult that the companions of that King of existence and Essence of Purpose would flee to mountains and deserts, hiding from the oppressors, while some would sacrifice their lives with complete detachment, as all was fulfilled and you witnessed   BH09209

Among the people are those who turned away, those who opposed, those who pronounced judgment, and those who shed blood at the bidding of every remote oppressor. They killed and plundered in such wise that grief overtook the denizens of the most exalted Paradise and those whom God made the inheritors of His exalted House.  BH11523

In these days strange and wondrous news has arrived from the Land of Ta. From a position where they should seek counsel, they strive to extinguish His light. The sun and moon, nay all things bear witness that this Cause is free and sanctified from even an atom's weight of corruption, yet that which you know has come to pass.  BH02558

At all events, as has been mentioned, by reason of the doctors' lack of experience and skill in administrative science, and the continual succession of their decisions, comment was rife; and their interference with the Bab cast a clamor throughout Persia, causing increased ardor in friends and the coming forward of the hesitating.  AB00003

Little by little it was rumored around that Ostad Esmael is a Baha'i and the Mullahs did their best to arrest and do away with him. When the governor heard about this secret plan he sent for him and said: 'I cannot protect <you> thee any longer. The wolves are after thee and thy life is in danger. Thou must leave the city without delay!'   ABU0330

In Qazvin, Haji Mulla Taqi launched an attack from the pulpit and condemned those two resplendent stars, Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsa'i and Siyyid Kazim-i-Rashti. He cursed and reviled them vehemently, saying: "This affair of the Bab, which is unmitigated error, is a hellish fire that has blazed forth from the grave of Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim."   AB00098

Karim-i-Kirmani has written a book of refutation every year regarding the Primal Point, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him, and likewise other divines of Iran have been and are engaged in cursing and execration from pulpits, and Mirza-yi-Sipihr has written in his history regarding His Holiness that which has caused all things to lament.  BH00953

The doctors, however, considering this arrangement as a weakening of the Law, did not agree, but held a conclave and wrote, If there be doubt in the matter there is need of assembly and discussion, but as this person's disagreement with the most luminous Law is clearer than the sun therefore the best possible thing is to put in practice the sentence of the Law.  AB00003

"We had sought shelter...in the house of My uncle, Mirza Isma'il. Tihran was in the throes of the wildest excitement. I ventured at times to sally forth from that house and to cross the street on My way to the market. I would hardly cross the threshold and step into the street, when boys of My age, who were running about, would crowd around Me crying, 'Babi! Babi!'"   ABU1472

O Muhammad! Reflect upon that which the wicked ones of Hijaz visited upon the Lord of the world, Ahmad. During the nights and days He was occupied with guiding the misguided and reforming their souls. Nevertheless they perpetrated that which caused the atoms to lament and the verses themselves to weep - a weeping that caused the dwellers of the heavens and earth to wail.  BH10993

And the example of those who were given the Qur'an when We revealed the Bayan is like the example of those who were given the Gospel when We revealed the Qur'an. Say: O people of the Qur'an, fear ye God! We have revealed in the Qur'an that by which you prove the Book, and We did not prove in the Qur'an the appearance of Muhammad except by your inability to produce verses.   BB00135

Although the imprisonment of the Primal Point was brief, yet those who were with Him in prison, concerned with preserving their own lives, turned away and objected - except for one soul who, clinging to the cord of faithfulness, detached from all the worlds, drank the cup of martyrdom with the Beloved of all who are in the heavens and on earth, and attained the Supreme Companion.   BH03104

Although he committed the greatest mistake of his life when he ordered the martyrdom of the Bab and the friends, yet as [we] always remember the ability of even our worst enemy and never overlook justice, therefore we acknowledge the public services of this able man. After the martyrdom of the Bab he himself confessed that he has made two errors in his life. One the death of the Bab  ABU0952

They took vengeance on them only because they believed in Thee and Thy mighty signs, followed the Prophets, walked in the path of the holy ones, were illumined by the light of guidance, and detached themselves from self and desire. Despite such cruelty, under drawn swords and aimed spears in the field of sacrifice, they would supplicate to Thee and seek pardon and forgiveness for their oppressors   AB00230

Some of the Persians followed Him. For this they suffered the most grievous difficulties and severe ordeals. They withstood the tests with wonderful power and sublime heroism. Thousands were cast into prison, punished, persecuted and martyred. Their homes were pillaged and destroyed, their possessions confiscated. They sacrificed their lives most willingly and remained unshaken in their faith to the very end.  ABU0346

Seven hundred horsemen were searching for the believers. In all the passages, the mullahs would stand and cry out: O people! If you want God, kill the Babis! If you love the Prophet, kill the Babis! If you want the Shah, kill the Babis! If you want religion and faith, kill the Babis! If you want to protect your life, property, and family, kill the Babis! If you want to protect your honor and dignity, kill the Babis!  ABU0183

O Husayn! Be thou enkindled with the fire of My love, that the peoples of the lands may be set ablaze thereby, and be thou attracted by My verses, that the servants may be drawn unto them. Say: Cast aside what the people possess, and hold fast unto that which hath come from the Dayspring of Power with the standards of His verses. Beware lest the might of the world weaken you, or the power of the wicked render you helpless.  BH00349

Anyone, anywhere, suspected of being among the friends [i.e. a Babi], was seized and torn into pieces. There was a sixteen or seventeen year old lad by the name of 'Abbasi who was an attendant of the late Sulayman Khan. He knew all the believers and, together with seventy or eighty farrashes and an equal number of artillery-soldiers, searched for the friends of God. When one was spotted, he was immediately seized and martyred.   ABU0442

Now I shall inform thee that thou hast followed a rebellious satan in whom God hath not placed an atom's weight of mercy, and who hath apostatized from his religion by decreeing, after the first decree, a distant imprisonment. Hast thou heard of anyone before who imprisoned one of the descendants of God's Messenger in the walls of a city whose people were ignorant and who denied the authority of the Imams who act by God's command?   BB00187

Letters were written a few days ago to his honor Aqa 'Ali-Akbar in Zavarih and his honor Aqa Mirza Mahdi and his honor Aqa Mirza Aqa through Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'l-Husayn. As for what you wrote about the dominion of the ignorant ones - this is a mirage. Soon God will cut off the foundation and root of these bloodthirsty oppressors from the face of the earth. Be confident they will become abased and despised. We shall lead them step by step to their ruin, whence they know not.   AB11759

It was early summer when Mirza Aqa Jan requested that the Blessed Beauty proceed to Afchih, with Ja'far-Quli Khan serving as host. While staying in Afchih, the incident involving the Shah occurred. Mirza Aqa Khan, the Prime Minister, immediately wrote to his brother about the incident, mentioning that Their name was involved, though he preferred not to write more explicitly. Close on the heels of this letter came another messenger indicating Their involvement more plainly.  ABU0053

Although the divines of the nation had obliged the Persian government to exert the most vehement opposition; although they had all issued decrees ordering the massacre, pillage, persecution, and annihilation of the Bab's followers; and although throughout the land the people had undertaken to kill, burn, and plunder them, and even harass their women and children--despite all this, Baha'u'llah was engaged, with the utmost constancy and composure, in exalting the word of the Bab.  AB00029

These traditions caused many to be martyred without fault or crime, until the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - was born in Fars from the loins of a known person and made the claim of being the Qa'im. Thereupon, those who followed vain imaginings and idle fancies were in manifest loss, and the Cause appeared to all the world like the rays of the sun. Nevertheless, that heedless and rejected sect turned away and arose to slay that Essence of being.   BH00359

A group joined the Bab who were killed. Their women were taken captive. Their children were imprisoned. Their homes were burned. Even their corpses were burned. Their possessions were plundered and everything they had and didn't have was confiscated. Some were tied to cannons. Some were thrown alive into fire and burned. Some were hanged and the Bab Himself was exiled to a fortress then brought from that fortress and hanged and a regiment of soldiers made His chest the target of bullets.   ABU0250

Often, by day or by night we covered a distance of from twenty-five to thirty miles. No sooner would we reach a caravanserai than from sheer fatigue everyone would lie down and go to sleep: utter exhaustion having overtaken everybody they would be unable even to move. In those days a famine raged all along the road. When we reached a station Mirza Jafar and I could ride from one village to another, from one Arab or Kurdish tent to another trying to get food, straw, barley etc., for men and animals.   ABU0498

Consider how all the Shi'ih divines - may God forsake them - arose in opposition and issued the verdict for the execution of the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake. The Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - was martyred through the word of that vile one and two or three others like him, for they ruled that whosoever says the Qa'im is in the loins and must be born is an infidel whose killing is obligatory. Thus did that occur whereat the atoms of all created things wept.   BH00676

The hardships of those days in Tehran are beyond description - beyond speech and writing. All people were in the utmost hatred and enmity. The government's hostility was beyond description. There was an attendant named Aqa Hasan, one of the Shaykhis and a follower of Mirza 'Abdu'l-Muhammad Shaykhi. When his turn came, he said We also have our rights. Even if this is a royal prison, we still have our share. Every day they would beat all the friends with sticks. The first day he beat them with switches, and the second day he came and beat them again.  ABU0221

Say: He hath appeared in days wherein no suns of grandeur and majesty have ever shone forth. By God! He is the Originator of the heavens and the earth. Say: This indeed is the Glory but for Whose love the Primal Point moved not, nor breathed save in His praise, nor spoke except in remembrance of Him, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. Say: Were it not for Him, the Bayan would not have been revealed, nor would its heaven have been raised up, nor its laws promulgated, nor its lights have shone forth - to this every fair-minded and perceiving one doth testify.   BH00290

Although the doctors of Zanjan arose with heart and soul to exhort and admonish the people they could effect nothing. Finally they were compelled to go to Tihran and made their complaint before the late king Muhammad Shah, requesting that Mulla Muhammad-'Ali might be summoned to Tihran. So they signified to the governor of Fars, Husayn Khan, If thou desirest the extinction of this fire, or seekest a firm stopper for this rent and disruption, an' immediate cure and decisive remedy is to kill the Bab. And the Bab has assembled a great host and mediates a rising.  AB00003

Your excellency will have heard that, before those sixteen years, this sect did not endure oppression, but took revenge. I forbade all (to do so), so that they were put to death in every land, yet opposed no one. It is now sixteen years that, although members of this sect have been killed, they have not shown opposition, despite the fact that they are stronger than before and are greater in numbers in every part of Iran. Nevertheless, whatever oppression has befallen them, they have remained and remain silent and patient, and are the most oppressed of the people of the earth.  BH01925

Grieve thou not over what the Pharisees, and the purveyors of false rumours among writers for the press, are saying of Baha. Call thou to mind the days of Christ, and the afflictions heaped upon Him by the people, and all the torments and tribulations inflicted upon His disciples. Since ye are lovers of the Abha Beauty, ye also must, for His love's sake, incur the peoples' blame, and all that befell those of a former age must likewise befall you. Then will the faces of the chosen be alight with the splendours of the Kingdom of God, and will shine down the ages, yea, down all the cycles of time, while the deniers shall remain in their manifest loss.   AB00083

The people of Persia looked on the Babis as the enemies of their religion, possessions and life, and consequently they considered one of their holiest duties to exterminate this sect. Well do I remember when still a child and in Teheran, one day I entered the mosque and saw a fanatical Mullah haranguing the crowd: 'O people! If you love God, kill the Babis; if you desire to win the good-pleasure of Mohamad, kill the Babis; if you long to enjoy the blessedness of Paradise, kill the Babis; if you wish the descent of the blessing of the Almighty upon you, kill the Babis and if you want to protect your hearths and possessions, you wives and families, kill the Babis!'  ABU0485

They have spread a web of vain imaginings greater than the webs of former peoples. At the time of emergence from between Gog and Magog, who were two polytheists, I sent a box containing blessed writings of the Exalted One and Aqa Siyyid Husayn, along with His seal, to that one who turned away from God. And in the early years of the new Cause, for four years We commanded him to copy from the writings of His Holiness, such that now writings of that apostate in the style of His Holiness exist. In these days he hath begun using those same writings and writing whatever Satan inspires in him, sealing it with His Holiness's seal and showing it to vile souls like himself.   BH00371

After this they sent Him off with several mounted guards (amongst them Muhammad Big, the courier) to Tabriz and Maku. At all events in the course of the journey He wrote a letter to the Prime Minister saying, You summoned Me from Isfahan to meet the doctors and for the attainment of a decisive settlement. What has happened now that this excellent intention has been changed for Maku and Tabriz? Although He remained forty days in the city of Tabriz the learned doctors did not condescend to approach Him and did not deem it right to meet Him. Then they sent Him off to the Castle of Maku, and for nine months lodged Him in the inaccessible castle which is situated on the summit of that lofty mountain.  AB00003

Again after thirty-six years, envious ill-wishers have risen with calumnies and raised an uproar. In brief, there is a person here, an interrogator named Yasin, who has been an interrogator here for ten to fifteen years. I showed this person utmost respect and consideration, and out of pure generosity bestowed many gifts upon him. Once when he complained about delayed wages and salary, he was given living assistance for three consecutive months. Then one day he came to this servant and said: 'Send some of your supporters to the palace to quarrel and fight with the supporters of your brother Mirza Muhammad Ali. Then I will interrogate and find Muhammad Ali's supporters guilty and accused and imprison them.'   AB00043

having burnt his moustaches and beard together with those of Mirza Muhammad-'Ali of Barfurush and Mulla 'Ali-Akbar of Ardistan, they put halters on all the three and led them round the streets and bazaars. The governor of Fars, acting according to that which the doctors deemed expedient, sent several horsemen, caused the Bab to be brought before him, censured and blamed Him in the presence of the doctors and scholars, and loosed his tongue in the demand for reparation. And when the Bab returned his censure and withstood him greatly, at a sign from the president they struck Him a violent blow, insulting and contemning Him, in such wise that His turban fell from His head and the mark of the blow was apparent on His face.  AB00003

When He witnessed the Cause in such state, He counseled those who had believed in Tablets of glory inscribed, saying: 'O people! Do not act as did those who associated partners with God, who warred against My Self, who denied My signs and rejected My compelling, mighty, and manifest proof. Should anyone come unto you, be not veiled by the First One, nor by the Mirrors, nor by all that hath been created between the heavens and the earth. Beware lest ye divide the word of God, the Mighty, the Beloved. By God! He is verily My Self, My Glory, My Grandeur, and My Sovereignty, and in the Bayan there is mention of Him and proof of Him, would ye but be certain. O people! Deal not with Him as the followers of the Furqan dealt with My wronged Self.'  BH00348

"The Shi'ih sect, who counted themselves as the saved and blessed community and knew themselves as the most excellent of all people, related successive traditions stating that whosoever claimed the Promised One would be born was an infidel and outside the religion. These traditions caused many to be martyred without guilt or crime, until the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - was born in Fars from the loins of a known person and made the claim of being the Qa'im. Thereupon, those who followed vain imaginings and idle fancies were in manifest loss, and the Cause appeared to all the world like the rays of the sun. Nevertheless, that heedless and rejected sect turned away and arose to slay that Essence of being."  BH00355

Things reached such a pitch that, in Mansuriyya in Egypt, the Iranian consul arrested four Ottoman citizens who had committed no offence. However much they protested they were Ottoman citizens, no heed was paid to them. They even took their passports and tore them up, after which they assembled them and banished them in chains and fetters. A certain Hajji Abu'l-Qasim, who was a well-known merchant there, simply on account of the fact that he had gone to Edirne to see me, was, on his return to Mansuriyya, made the object of the hostility of the Iranian consul and, although he had committed no crime or offence, he was arrested. They impounded all he possessed then entered his house, dragged forth his daughter, and carried her to the street and the market-place.  BH01047

At the beginning of our arrival at 'Akka, we had gatherings, but very secretly. None of the pilgrims were permitted entrance into the city. They would be discovered by the gate and would be made the subject of contempt, and then banished away. The honored Nabil came by the city's gate and fell into trouble. They would place such pilgrims in prison and then exile them. With utmost difficulty, the honored Mulla 'Ali Qa'ini came, but was seized and banished to Nazareth. The honored Muhammad-'Ali Dahaji came and no matter how he tried to gain entrance into the city, he did not succeed. Therefore, from a distance he stood in the fields and fixed his gaze on the prison cell of Baha'u'llah, beat himself in the head, cried profusely and then left. Similar experiences transpired for many other friends of God.  ABU0732


You must never complain. Tell the friends about them, but descriptively, not complainingly.  ABU3721


I have fallen under the claws of aggression and been tried by the fangs of fierce wolves from among the transgressors.   AB05685


Beware lest the clamor of the divines or the doubts of those who have denied God's truth and His proof...prevent thee or veil thee.   BH05451

'Abdu'l-Baha is in great peril from the hands of the enemies. Let it not be that you become faint or disturbed when tribulation descends.  AB01836

He made as many false accusations against 'Abdu'l-Baha as he could and, to the extent possible, with complete haughtiness and pride cast doubts.  AB00655

'Abdu'l-Baha loves all no matter how they turn away from Him. Whether they love or hate Him, go or come, He never changes in His love for them.   ABU2880

And at times they count 'Abdu'l-Baha as the center of polytheism and error and infidelity and cruelty. Both of these are present in their writings.   AB04799

Look at me: I am so feeble, yet I have had the strength given me to come amongst you: a poor servant of God, who has been enabled to give you this message!  ABU0281

However, in these times of upheaval, my arrival would cause disturbance, for the ravens of hatred lie in ambush and the corrupt ones await such a pretext.   AB05361

God hath caused sedition and calamities to arise among those who have disbelieved, that there might be manifested that which He revealed in the Surih of Ra'is   BH08917

For they, O my God, have made light of me - nay, I have become a burden to them, and my existence has become a torment to them, and my sweetness has turned bitter in their mouths.   AB03281

Though the bat may fall under the sun's shadow, it grows yet more blind; though the dung beetle may draw nigh to the rose garden, it becomes yet more tormented by the fragrance of the rose.  AB09590

If at times he becometh sad, it is not on account of affliction and adversities, but that grief is produced from a word or an act which is against the exhortations and behests of the Blessed Perfection.   AB00628

At present the matter has been referred to Istanbul, and the Ottoman and Iranian officials have departed from here to see what will be decided there. For now, they have confined everyone here in the fortress  AB12270

Very well. For the sake of argument, let us suppose that they are going to arrest and send me to Damascus. What will happen? The Cause will be spread amongst those who are still unaware of this Manifestation.   ABU0765

The unfaithful ones have raised a cry and written to Europe that 'Abdu'l-Baha is extremely weak and incapacitated from all work and is in danger, and will soon bid farewell. At that time they will have free rein.  AB03513

...and witnesseth the greatness of my trials and the severity of my afflictions and the weight of my burden and the intensity of my ordeal and my grief and my calamity from the onslaught of Thine enemies and mine enemies...   AB11474

Especially the familiar friends have arisen a hundred times more than strangers to extinguish the lamp, and each day they shoot a new arrow at 'Abdu'l-Baha's breast, inflict a fresh cruelty and calumny, and raise cries of lamentation.   AB01969

One of the things the ill-wishers circulated in London is that 'I have grown old and weak and that my physical forces are on the wane, consequently some people have gained ascendancy over my mind and caused me to issue these commands.'  ABU1044

"Certain officials in the City have requested me to write a petition for them to use before the higher authorities to bring about my release from incarceration. I have answered, 'God forbid that I write such a thing! This is far from being my wont.'"   ABU1097

Description of attacks and opposition: "at every moment is exposed to attacks from every fierce claw of beasts and birds, and the sea of tribulation is a tumultuous ocean, and is constantly occupied with rectifying the corruptions of the people of pride"  AB11635

Among the people are those who lamented on the Day of Manifestation, and among them are those who, out of their longing for the presence of God, the Revealer of verses, took flight. Verily, he who lamented is among the companions of the fire in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH06736

When Jamal Pasha came to Jerusalem he made some remarks about me. He said: 'I will go and conquer Egypt. I will drive England out of Egypt. I will conquer all the Suez Canal. Victorious I shall return. My first command will be this, that I will hang him 'Abdu'l-Baha at the gate of 'Akka.'   ABU0304

I strove to the utmost so that Mirza 'Ali-Asghar Khan, the Aminu's-Sultan, might be aided, but he paid no heed. In the days when Mulla 'Ali-Akbar' and Haji Amin were imprisoned, the Aminu's-Sultan spoke of them favourably; as a result, the Blessed Beauty said [to me]: 'Send a letter to him.'  ABU2166

Now the whole world is in utmost enmity with 'Abdu'l-Baha and attacking from every direction - governments from one side, nations from another side, Muslim clergy from one direction, the party of Yahya from every direction, and the Covenant-breakers from all directions engaged in sedition and corruption   AB01901

the birds of night took wing in the atmosphere of heaven, but then through the radiance of divine confirmation from the Abha Kingdom upon 'Abdu'l-Baha, their dark realities were brought to naught, the birds of error and blindness were scattered, and they fell into loss until such time as God shall will. Destruction be upon them!  AB04984

These days this is very difficult, as strangers are targeting these exiles, writing books every day, making accusations from every tribe, printing and publishing them. And even among friends, the Covenant-breakers are secretly causing the utmost corruption. With these two attacking forces, you can imagine how difficult the situation is.   AB01717

Spies and enemies were constantly informing the authorities that he was plotting against the government, that he was secretly instigating revolution and teaching principles in opposition to the Mohammedan religion. In consequence of these reports and statements Abdul-Baha underwent a great deal of restriction, difficulty and personal discomfort  ABU0435

"But we, praise be to God, are loyal to the government and steadfast in service, well-wishers of the nation and kind to all peoples. We speak nothing but good words and pursue nothing but the path of friendship and peace and truth and righteousness, and seek nothing but the comfort of creation and tranquility of humanity and God's good pleasure."  AB02374

Today, this man (MÃ­rza Muhammad`AlÃ­) has done such a deed and written in such wise that Mutisarrif Pasha wanted to use his statement as evidence to uproot Us completely. He has written, â€˜Whatever our illustrious Father had left as inheritance, has been confiscated by the Effendi [i.e. `Abduâ€™l-Baha] and He is depriving us of our rightful share.â€™  ABU3674

Mirza Anayetullah has brought us some very interesting news from Acca. He says Mirza Badi-o-llah has circulated a wild report that I am going to be arrested, made a prisoner and sent to Damascus. The people, especially the friends have become very agitated and have made many inquiries from the civil authorities in regard to the authenticity of this report.   ABU0765

The people of malice have determined to veil this manifest light from eyes and conceal this luminous moon. They deny the exaltation of God's Cause and dispute the transcendence of God's words...The arrow of aggression from friends is more poisonous than the arrow of strangers, and the wound from the sword of pretenders more severe than the sword of enemies.   AB00498

I realized that, with such slanders, they sought to shatter the foundation of the Cause. However, at that moment, the confirmations of the Supreme Concourse poured down and the sun of the favors of the Blessed Beauty shone upon me. I said to him, The Shaykh-i-Kabir has left a Will and Testament in His own hand and seal, and defined in it the inheritance of His heir...  ABU3673

For when the nations veiled from the light of Thy beauty and the peoples distinguished by their rancor and rage against Thy countenance heard of the setting of the Sun of Thy oneness and the disappearance of the Light of Thy uniqueness...they surged forth in joy and gladness, and swelled in tyranny and evil. They loosened the reins of oppression and raised the spears of inequity  AB00499


Though this person hath until now published several treatises in opposition to the Center of the Covenant, this servant hath not penned a single word concerning him. But as in these days some calumnious pages from him have reached these shores and been examined, were silence to be maintained, perchance some of the ignorant might believe these falsehoods and fall into grievous trial.   AB00332


'Abdu'l-Baha has a brother whose oppression makes the tyranny of Rustam's brother seem like faithfulness by comparison, and the bitterness of whose harm and injury appears as the honey of pure fellowship. For that one's injury was to Rustam's person alone, while this brother's ultimate desire is the murder of 'Abdu'l-Baha and the uprooting and destruction of the blessed Tree of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB07941

Ye left him alone and friendless, and laid upon him all the hardships from stranger and kin. Ye burned him in the fire of oppression and occupied yourselves day and night with disturbing thoughts and confusing minds... At every hour you cast a hundred thousand doubts. You allowed Him not a moment's peace nor wished Him an instant's freedom, nor did you let Him rest one night upon a pillow of repose or a couch of tranquility.   AB00312

Although the soldiers of Tus proclaimed their love for Kavus with their tongues, alas, they uprooted the tender sapling of Siyavush and Kavus from its very foundation. Likewise do the people of sedition begin by praising the pure name of the Sun of the Covenant, yet they seek to extinguish His lamp and constantly cast 'Abdu'l-Baha into the whirlpool of injustice, thirsting to drink His blood and tear at His breast while raising loud cries and lamentations.  AB08808

These friends persistently resort to every means to level a grave accusation against 'Abdu'l-Baha so they might exile Him from 'Akka and gain a wide field for themselves to gallop about in. Now I have myself traveled to this land and left the field to them, so it might become clear that even if I should vanish, they are capable of nothing but flattery toward this one and that. If the nightingale abandons the rose garden, the crow and raven will gain no glory.   AB00271

Presently Mirza Muhammad-'Ali is associating with our most inveterate enemies in 'Akka and is exerting to cause a great commotion in the Holy Land. He has arrayed several others against us and has also leagued with the 'ulama of Jerusalem. They have sent certain letters to Jamal Pasha claiming that I have uprooted faith and convictions and have established a new religion. Even prior to his campaign against Egypt, they gave him documents filled with slanders [against Me].   ABU0423

The destroyer of the foundation, in absolute ignorance, in his own writing and with his seal has claimed every claim. What he said is available to all that the great sun of God has appeared and every sun in comparison to it is smaller than small. In spite of this, he has cried out that Abdu'l-Baha is the embodiment of 'whoso layeth claim before the expiration of a thousand years', therefore, He has to be subjected to 'God will assuredly send down one who will deal mercilessly with him'.   AB00339

When one governor rose up in opposition and allied with the government officials, he induced someone to secretly send a petition to Constantinople containing strange accusations. They returned the petition from Constantinople requesting clarification. Then the governor and government officials wrote a very harsh official report and rose up in hatred and enmity. This servant had the governor and government officials dismissed - such was the extent of influence, as both stranger and friend are aware.   AB00271

Mirza Muhammad-'Ali has told him and others that after the passing of such-and-such one the Cause will revert to him. Therefore that statement was written for thee to convey to Mirza Husayn. Consider - would such words ever issue from the mouth of any thoughtless person in the world, let alone from a person of intelligence? No, by God! He awaits that I should either drink the cup of supreme martyrdom, or hasten to the Supreme Concourse, or be exiled to the Sahara of Fezzan, or take up residence in the depths of the sea, so that he might enter the arena and prance about.  AB09273

Observe how 'Abdu'l-Baha is positioned: all the world's nations attack, all peoples and tribes oppose. Strangers assault with sword and spear, while those who were close are a hundred thousand times worse than strangers, for these wage internal warfare while those wage external battles. Those who were outwardly considered supporters of this servant have arisen with utmost hatred, clearly and visibly, and have left no means unused to harm 'Abdu'l-Baha. From every bow they have shot a hundred thousand arrows, and from every sheath they have drawn a hundred thousand swords.  AB00311

One day they create disorder in the local government, another day they kindle the fire of calumnies through officials at the provincial center, and carry out secret schemes which cause the exile and banishment of the Center of the Covenant. One day they sent the hyena of Burujird to the embassy of the eternal Iranian state, where he uttered all manner of calumnies and nonsense. Now that obstinate one is at the embassy of the sublime state in Tehran, striving in every way to bring about the death and affliction of this wronged one, corresponding in code with the Center of violation about this matter.   AB00275

Now these souls and these embryonic children have imagined confused dreams and spread false rumors that the Manifestation of supreme servitude and the Dawning-place of poverty and evanescence has, God forbid, undertaken a matter totally contrary to His true disposition and opposed to His sincere belief - namely, the persistence of existence and the witness of His own being. This despite the fact that from this pen and tongue until now, nothing has been uttered except absolute servitude and complete evanescence, and in all conditions He has been prostrate in the dust and turning toward the Lord of verses.   AB00401

And 'Abdu'l-Baha is alone and solitary in the hands of the oppressors. At times they accuse him of polytheism, at times they slander him with accusations of immersion in vice. Sometimes they call him the center of hatred and sometimes the promoter of endless misguidance. Sometimes with mockery they call him the Center of the Covenant and sometimes they open their tongues with utmost cruelty. Sometimes they call him the chief of transgressors and promoter of every kind of vice and error, claiming that for a hundred years he has taken up the pen and made lawful and permissible all abominable deeds. And sometimes they issue death sentences against him and write openly and clearly that God will soon send against him one who will show him no mercy.  AB01820

The Centre of Sedition had imagined that it needed but his arrogant rebellion to bring down the Covenant and Testament in ruins; it needed but this, so he thought, to turn the righteous away from the Holy Will. Wherefore he sent out far and wide his leaflets of doubt, devising many a secret scheme. Now he would cry out that God's edifice had been subverted and His divine commands annulled, and that accordingly, the Covenant and Testament was abolished. Again he would set himself to sighing and groaning that he was being held a prisoner and was kept hungry and thirsty day and night. Another day he would raise an uproar, saying that the oneness of God had been denied, since another Manifestation had been proclaimed, prior to the expiration of a thousand years.  AB00056

They sent a report about me, and I also wrote a petition which I sent through Sheikh Badruddin to Sultan Abdul Hamid, mentioning in it that the investigators came to 'Akka and I did not meet with them, and that I am grateful and thankful to them, for I heard they sent a report to the Sublime Porte with many complaints, the most important of which were four: First, that I had broken the government's authority and my command was being followed; second, that I had built a fortified castle; third, that I had raised the banner of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha with Mirza Zikrellah and for two years it had been flying over the heads of the tribes; fourth, that two-thirds of 'Akka's properties and lands had come under my ownership - and this is the cause of my gratitude and appreciation to the esteemed committee[...]  ABU0243

In these days, the Holy Land is in turmoil by reason of the calumnies spread by the slandering liars. For certain strangers from amongst the non-believers have published some books, filled them with countless calumnies, and distributed them in these regions. 'Abdu'l-Baha is therefore in dire peril due to attacks from within and from without. Such are the enemies of the Faith on the outside, and such the violators of the Covenant on the inside. It is thus evident what commotion hath arisen. Yet, praise be to God, through the unfailing grace of the Blessed Beauty, I have remained firm in my position, have bared my breast to the darts of malice hurled by every oppressor, and am awaiting the onslaught of tribulations from every side, that, wholly detached, I may hasten to the shelter of His transcendent mercy.  AB02359


In these days when the divine fire has set the horizons aflame and its radiant light has illumined both East and West, when the penetrating power of the Word of God has astonished the wise, and the Cause of God has achieved its supreme ascendancy, and no fear or danger remains, the pretenders have found their opportunity and become champions of the field. Those silent ones in the corner of oblivion and those fearful bats who denounced the Bab - may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him - from pulpits in Isfahan and Tehran, have now emerged and claim authenticity. They have secretly persuaded some uninformed souls and have busied themselves casting doubts. In utmost secrecy they pursue this one and that, seeking by various means to turn each from the straight path or cause them harm.   AB00050





He hath spoken before the people concerning me that which he hath spoken, out of spite against God   BH03373

But alas, alas, I hear that certain souls have taken God's Cause lightly. They play and comprehend not, and they speak that of which they are unaware.  BH00009

The deed of one ignorant one has caused all corruption to be attributed to this Wronged One by its perpetrators  BH08177


Among other things he wrote that they had left Me for want of bread. Observe the baseness and meanness of his soul, what he hath said and what he hath done.   BH02200


"Beware lest thou be extinguished by the brackish and fetid waters which flow from the mouths of Our polytheist servants whenever the polytheists fabricate lies about Me."   BH11199

The world is in upheaval. The Pharaohs of the past have been resurrected. Dawlatabadi and his followers have become afflicted with delusions that have had and have no equal.   BH03956

Your letter was received and the calumnies of the people of veils became known and clear. "Our Lord, this is a mighty calumny" will be verified and established regarding the oppressed ones.   AB11971

enemies and ill-wishers of this Wronged One rose up with the utmost corruption and cast every slander and calumny upon this wanderer and prepared petitions which they sent to high officials.   ABU2467

At that time they will immediately say that the Babis have become intermediaries for Siyyid Jamalu'd-Din's corruption. Who then will investigate to discover that Siyyid Jamalu'd-Din is our enemy   AB00648

One day they say "You are sending Tablets," and another day they cling to some other pretext - these are truly among those who have wronged throughout the ages and disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH02060

By God the Truth! All that he hath attributed to My Holy, Transcendent, Mighty, All-Knowing Self - its falsehood is more obvious than what We have mentioned to thee, were people to look with their eyes and be of those who see.  BH01814

The story in the letter is entirely false and slanderous... This calumny is like "cauterization as the last remedy" - they have deemed the ultimate cure for their pain to be the utmost intrigues, whisperings, calumnies and slanders  AB10381

By My life! He who was unable to speak in My presence, when he witnessed his own powerlessness in what he desired, attributed to this Beauty - to Whose sanctity the realities of all things bear witness - what his self and passion commanded.   BH00578

O people of God! The idolatrous souls have never been with Us and have no knowledge of this Cause. Nevertheless, they have contrived calumnies and have aimed at the Purpose of the worlds, and with the utmost effort and endeavor are striving to mislead souls.  BH10068


By My life! If thou wert to reflect upon what the idolators have attributed to My Person, thou wouldst surely become acquainted with them and what lieth within their souls, for thou hast associated with Me and witnessed somewhat of My disposition amongst the peoples.  BH00711

But that shameless party has neither shame nor modesty, neither stillness nor rest. Now they have turned to Najaf and deceive the religious authorities with calumnies, and sow corruption in Egypt, and cast doubts in Europe, and utter false reports and pure fabrications   AB00761

To this testify the servants who were with Me in the Land of Mystery, and beyond them My Preserved Tablet. We made known to him Our horizon and commanded him to what is right, yet he arose to harm Me and committed that which caused the hearts of those near to God to melt.   BH04502

In these days the cry of the lying ones hath been raised, as though they had never in their lives uttered a single truthful word. They have denied and spoken falsehoods, then fabricated allegations against the Ancient Beauty to instill rancor in the hearts of the rebellious ones.  BH02035

By God, besides Whom there is none other God! Were you to become aware of the very lies they have told you in that land and the calumnies they have attributed to the Truth, you would surely flee to the wilderness and cut yourself off from all who dwell on earth, were you to be of the fair-minded ones.  BH00004

He began to harass us and submitted a petition to the Sublime Porte claiming that the Blessed Beauty and His followers were among the liberals, were interfering in political matters, and had gained strange influence. I want to take possession of their center of corruption (meaning the Blessed Household), he wrote.  ABU0176

One says they have abrogated the Law, another says they have removed prayer and fasting. One group says this and another group says that. All these reports and stories are purely for casting doubts, otherwise the religion is the religion of God and the Law is the Law that does not change or alter until the Day of God.  AB00543

It is evident and established that no trace now remaineth of those slanderers - they have returned to the lowest of the low. Surely people of understanding, even those with the slightest perception, recognize both you and them. Soon shall this become evident. The authorities will at least discern the outward circumstances.  AB04523

They even sent the absurd report that we had created a new Mecca, i.e., the Holy Tomb of Baha'u'llah, and a new Medina, i.e., the tomb of the Bab on Mt. Carmel! They had represented us as men of revolt and sedition and as enemies of law and order; while it is known clearly throughout the world that we seek for peace and unity.   ABU1285

But he is unmindful of the fact that in regard to earlier centuries--that is concerning Moses, Christ and even Muhammad--what manner of books and treatises have been written and what calumnies contrived! Christ was particularly made the target of such books. But those treatises became the cause of the exaltation of the Word of God.  AB12280

You observe that the purpose of the wavering ones is nothing but rebellion and revolt, for from this Pen nothing has flowed except pure servitude, and never has any claim of infallibility or lack thereof been made. These discussions are for seminary students after a thousand years - now is not the time for such words, accusations and objections.   AB03444

Multiple copies of that book have been sent to Iran, as they have sent it everywhere. Obtain a copy of that book and collectively write a response to those calumnies with utmost eloquence in simple language. This is the work that needs to be done, for it yields results and these matters are of importance and cause nearness to the Court of Divine Unity.   AB00101

When, however, he realized that his deed had been exposed, he seized the pen of calumny and wrote unto the servants of God, attributing what he had himself committed unto Mine own peerless and wronged Beauty. His purpose was none other than to inspire mischief and to instil hatred into the hearts of those who had believed in God, the All-Glorious, the All-Loving.  BH00007

my brother wrote to various quarters that he had been wronged, denied his stipend, and that attempts had been made on his life. And if you were to say that you are unaware of the secrets and do not know, it has become sufficiently clear and evident to you that all these accusations they have written are pure falsehood, and he intended to cut down the divine Tree.   BH00857

Would that they were content with this! But they have spoken concerning me that which no believer would speak of even the most wretched transgressor. Through all this have I remained patient in the path of Thy love. Thus hast Thou made me, O my God, a target for the swords of these two factions, and I know not what to do hereafter, and Thou art witness to their deeds.   BH00677

Up until now, we have not learnt the nature of our crime. There has been no enquiry. But neither wrongdoing nor acts contrary to the laws have ever been witnessed from us. If it be supposed that our crime is that of being Babis, this was known from the start, and the Ottoman government officials were aware that we were Babis. It was not something that was kept concealed.  BH01440

By God! At this My heart, My Pen, and My very being lamented. And now Isfahani, together with his companion, is present at the Threshold, engaged in plundering wealth, consumed by such flames of greed and passion that the Pen is powerless to describe. Poor trustworthiness writhes beneath the talons of his treachery, while piety, like the phoenix, remains hidden and unseen.   BH01084

He has further suggested, 'If you want to stop these things from happening and to ensure that none of these teachings is ever realised, then you must demolish `Akka, slay `Abdu'l-Baha, Who is the Center of their Faith and the fount of their inner confidence, and massacre all the Baha'is, whether they live in Iran or the Ottoman Empire.' Such are the intentions of this evil man.  ABU3677

They seized money through theft and brought it to Akka, and oppression reached such a point that they even attributed to Aqa Siyyid Ahmad that which befitted their own selves. God is witness, and the atoms of creation bear testimony, that the Greater Afnan came to this land solely for seclusion, not trade. They have written concerning him that which proclaimed their own heedless, idolatrous selves.  BH01576

By chance they went directly to the house of the enemies, and all the foes surrounded them. In short, those who had prepared the slanderous petition became both witness and expositor. The complainant, witness and judge were one and the same person. It is obvious then what kind of order the petition and report took on - calumnies that would not occur to the mind of any tyrant or rebel, let alone these exiles.   AB00581

Though these oppressed ones have never harmed even an ant, love all humanity, and consider it impermissible to speak ill even of animals, Al-Manar and Al-Mu'ayyad have written that because the Baha'is (God forbid! God forbid! I seek forgiveness from God the Almighty!) insulted the Prophet and spoke unseemly words, the Muslims of Yazd could not tolerate it and killed them. Observe what calumny they have uttered!   AB00283

He is now raising a tumult by saying, The claims of Your Father and Yourself vary with Your deeds and the objections of Your brother. We have a Hadith that states: 'The Messengers and Prophets do not inherit and have no heir.' Your Father claimed the station of Prophethood and gave You His successorship. Your brother states that You have confiscated the estate of the Shaykh-i-Kabir and deprived them of their inheritance.  ABU3673

O Sovereign of the world! By the Sun of Truth, all these events and corruptions and circulation of papers stem from the deceptive intrigues of strangers - namely Jamal-i-Din Afghani and his followers. This person has been and continues to be utterly malevolent towards these wanderers...In most newspapers he spoke ill of and condemned the Babis. There remained no calumny he did not perpetrate and no accusation he did not write with utmost virulence.  AB00115

They had told us that even in His blessed room, in one corner there was wine, in another corner there was hashish, in another corner they were smoking marijuana, in another corner they were smoking opium. But I felt it my duty to come and investigate. When I came, I saw that this was a sanctified atmosphere that the Concourse on High would envy. Wherever I looked, there were only signs of knowledge, virtue, perfection, sanctity and holiness. I remained bewildered that what was reported was such, while the reality was this.  ABU0087

Mirza Mohsen Khan, the Iranian ambassador in Istanbul, was an enemy of this Cause. Once in the presence of forty ministers and representatives, he asked one of the Ottoman officials about the condition of the Blessed Beauty, and he replied that soon no trace would remain of Him... The ambassador's main goal was to attract the Sultan to himself... he wrote to the Iranian consul in Damascus to write a report to the Sultan claiming that Baha'u'llah was conspiring with contractors in Tripoli, Sudan and Syria to depose the Sultan.   ABU0530

...these days wherein the winds of sorrow have encompassed me from every direction through that which the hands of men have wrought in uttering calumnies against me without any clear proof or book...When We exalted thee to the summit of light and raised thee to the pinnacle of servitude in the land of joy, and when We gave thee to drink, from the hand of Joseph the All-Glorious, the water of oneness from the camphor fountain, and laid thee to rest in the cradle of security while the ant of gladness was singing - there did thy spirit find repose, thy soul delight, and thy being joy.  BH00267

In short, there remains no calumny these souls have not cast upon this oppressed community, and no arrow they have not shot at the breasts of the wronged ones. Each of them has committed such injustice and oppression for some ulterior motive. Surely the wise leaders are aware of the ulterior motives and illness of these souls, whose aim is to raise up sedition and to cast this forbearing, peaceful community into the clutches of bloodthirsty ones in every land, as in Yazd, so that they may spill the blood of the helpless, plunder and pillage their property, burn their homes, and take their orphans captive.   AB00181

The leaders of the independence movement, such as Haji Mirza Fadlu'llah-i-Nuri, the mujtahid, and Aqa Siyyid 'Ali, the mujtahid of Yazd, were supporters of independence and would cry out from pulpits and in gatherings, publishing articles and announcing in the streets and bazaars that the Baha'is were constitutionalists and founders of the National Assembly. "O people! The Baha'is' purpose is that political and religious freedom be proclaimed so that they may openly print and distribute the Books and Tablets of Baha'u'llah, the Writings of the Bab, and the letters of 'Abdu'l-Baha, and promote their own religion and Faith."   AB00264

The thieves and deceivers lie in ambush, and from kaf and ra arise howlings as they busy themselves with godlessness. They have collected many sublime and glorious verses... Indeed they have manifested such deceit as hath never been heard of before. Now with the utmost craftiness and guile they profess love to each of the friends of God while subtly mentioning certain matters that perchance may hold back the people of God from the Most Exalted Horizon. Their honey concealeth poison, and their protestations of love mask hidden hatred... In brief, they send forth strange and wondrous writings, publishing certain wondrous verses either in their own name or in the name of the Point of the Bayan - may the souls of all else be sacrificed for His sake - or in other names.  BH07267

Look not at the people - ponder the conflicts of every age and cycle. Consider what befell Noah, Hud, Salih, Zachariah and his son, the Spirit (Jesus), and the Seal of the Prophets (Muhammad) - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - who brought it about and for what purpose. By My life, this blessed word suffices all who are on earth, were they to reflect and ponder in the garden of fairness. BH01349

Ye have heard the taunts of the enemies   BH06906

Some ill-intentioned people deceived me   AB03135

...deliver him from the evil of the deniers.  BH06800

when the opposers arose in grievous tyranny   BH09664

the hosts of the wrongdoers could not prevent   BH08814

Be not grieved at the oppression of the enemies   BH03827

Although the enemies are intense in their hatred  AB12685

was not held back by the hints of the oppressors   BH09905

they denied and turned away from My straight path   BH07710

at which the limbs of the polytheists have quaked   BH07312

when most of Thy creatures had turned away from Thee   BH09954

in days when the divines and mystics have turned away   BH11232

when I was oppressed among the hands of the ignorant.   BH10959

"for verily the satans have been and are lying in wait"  BH07318

yet the people of hypocrisy remain behind a mighty veil  BH06642

the clamor of those who have denied Thee and Thy signs   BH08140

every ignorant one far removed hath turned away from it   BH08791

O Lord! Thou knowest what hath befallen us in Thy path.   BH07123

while We hear from the sinners the croaking of the raven   BH06954

Thou hast written that the Ministers have risen in enmity  AB12455

But the onslaught of enemies always keeps you distressed.   AB05092

at a time when God's Cause was forsaken among all creatures  BH07509

lest it become a cause of mischief by the people of hatred   AB03876

The Wronged One Who hath been imprisoned in the path of God   BH09340

the cawing of the cawers and the clamor of the transgressors  BH04785

Grieve not on account of those in whom hatred hath appeared   BH02553

while it was in the Prison, in the hands of the wicked ones   BH07282

O you who are wounded by the arrow of tyranny in God's path!  AB04738

Indeed, in these days most people have arisen to cause harm.   BH05139

It dashes into a thousand pieces all the forces of opposition.  ABU2949

for the idolaters have ever lain in wait and continue to do so   BH03930

The deeds of men have deprived them of the recognition of God.   BH05334

However, the violators of the Covenant resisted and blocked Me   ABU3276

not like 'Abdu'l-Baha's brother who was more bitter than poison  AB09948

though the kings oppose Him...the denial of them that are veiled  BH07863

"Fear not the clamor of the ignorant ones, that is, the divines"  BH05184

then make mention of what befell Him at the hands of His enemies  BH03548

It is opposition to truth that exists in every region and realm   AB05194

That call became a fire of hatred in the hearts of the idolaters   BH02574

Therefore the sword was drawn and trembling seized all the tribes   BH04767

at the time when that polytheist was casting doubts in your heart   BH02328

The divines assembled to harm Us, but God seized them with justice   BH08225

"whoso harboureth rancour from thy Lord is in manifest opposition"   BH07791

Let no one destroy you through the hands of tyranny and vainglory.   BH06726

those whom the might of the oppressors hath not held back from God   BH04839

O my Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones in the hands of Thine enemies.  BH10702

We hear the cry of Our loved ones in Ta (Tihran) and in other lands   BH07944

in days wherein the fire of discord hath been kindled in all regions   BH10926

internal and external enemies in all regions stand with utmost hatred  AB02360

But if it would cause hardship and attacks from enemies, be patient.   AB05025

when the breezes of hatred waft upon thee from every sinful polytheist  BH08052

endured hardships in its path... the Wronged One in His mighty prison   BH10901

It was raised in days when the people of the lands rose up against Us.   BH05205

lest those who have denied the Beginning and the End cause you to slip   BH08209

but the people have turned away, having followed every ignorant doubter   BH08871

They have heard from the enemies that which none in the world have heard  BH09014

They have pronounced judgment against Him Whom they invoke night and day  BH06611

"for the treacherous lie in ambush and thieves wait at the watchtowers"   BH04473

Think ye the Church and big monopolies will not fight to the last step?   ABU1192

Though severe attacks beset you from every side and enemies lie in wait   AB03927

the winds of those who have disbelieved...the opposition of the opposers   BH09064

In these days the signs of oppression are manifest from every direction.   BH03753

When there comes to you one who croaks with a book, leave him to himself   BH09226

They drink of putrid water while imagining it to be Kawthar and Salsabil   BH06179

Although the oppressors have inflicted such cruelties as cannot be borne   AB04280

on another side the might of princes hath become an impediment and barrier  BH04503

the Sun of knowledge which hath shone forth from the horizon of the Prison  BH07463

Beware lest the tyranny of the divines prevent thee from My straight path   BH05583

The mockery and nonsense of the journalists will cause their own disgrace   AB01809

I was followed and beaten by the boys and the people because I was a Babi   ABU2962

[He then raised His hand and stated], 'Our enemies are also in Our sleeve.'  BHU0067

Description of tampering with and opening of letters by postal authorities   AB03361

Thou seest those who have turned towards Thee in the hands of the idolaters   BH05998

"in this Day wherein all have denied Thee and Thy signs, save a numbered few"  BH02795

shouldst all who are on earth oppose thee, thou wouldst not turn toward them   BH07303

lest thou be seized by the casting of intimations from every wretched opponent  BH07756

Today is the day of steadfastness, for the croaking of the ravens is upraised.  BH07528

neither the pharaohs of the earth nor the tyrants of the land could deter him   BH02344

if it spreads in that land there is danger of harm to the prisoners and others  BH02131

whom the oppression of those who turned away from Thy beauty did not frighten   BH07126

the deniers and objectors and hosts of negation exist both within and without   BH03219

And yet behold! how the Baha'is are still persecuted by the people of Persia!   AB02805

the hand of aggression of the hostile people... the assault of the oppressors   AB02236

neither the clamor of the divines nor the commotion of the wicked may deter me   BH07083

most of those on earth have striven to extinguish the fire of God and His light  BH06469

Soon shall all arise in lamentation and weeping, finding no refuge or shelter.   BH05324

who have been scattered by the tyranny of the oppressors and have chosen exile   BH02788

"through whom the fire of hatred was kindled in the breasts of the polytheists"   BH03089

Their homes were ransacked and their dwellings and nests were made like a desert  AB04382

on a day whereon most of the divines and most of the handmaidens have turned away  BH09538

Hast thou heard of My exile and My grief and My imprisonment and My tribulation?   BH07965

whoso denieth, verily He is independent of those who have disbelieved and denied   BH06427

Although thou art under sword and chain and great affliction and severe hardship   AB05445

The contradiction of others is more conducive to the strength of the Cause of God.  ABU1722

Today the people of divine unity are tormented and afflicted among the polytheists   BH03734

while imprisoned among those who were heedless of the Cause and arose in opposition  BH02943

on a day wherein every perfidious wretch and every dubious learned one turned away   BH07028

"...the hosts of those who denied the Beginning and the Return could not frighten."  BH05021

after all the learned ones who held in their grasp the reins of men had turned away   BH08188

Most of creation hath been prevented from the mention of God, the Creator of heaven   BH02300

You had written about ?awlatu'd-Dawlih... And ?awlat will completely lose his might.  AB12476

when funds were scarce in the Holy Land and enemies were mounting an intense assault  AB02385

They have fabricated lies and calumnies, shown the utmost enmity, hatred and malice.  AB00455

Account of physical attacks and false accusations against Baha'is by family members   AB01340

They were resented only because they chanted Thy verses and expounded Thy evidences.  AB06141

Grieve not because of the people and their clamor. God shall soon erase their traces   BH09615

in days when the divines and princes of the earth were seen to be debarred and veiled  BH06344

They follow the evil one and deny Him Who hath come unto them with this mighty Name.   BH07803

"In Yazd the people of hatred and malice lie in wait, and their purpose is to attack"  AB02408

those whom the might of the wicked ones hath not prevented from drawing nigh unto God   BH09077

the deniers who opposed God and disbelieved in His verses and were among the rejecters  BH07496

for the leaves of the wicked and the cawing of the crows have become manifest and loud  BH07371

Their only purpose is to find grounds to object to God, the Lord of the Day of Return.  BH03145

These souls prefer one atom of tribulation in His path above all that is in the world   BH06617

the agitation of the hostile ones subsides somewhat and the authorities become assured  AB08644

"for today all peoples and nations from all directions are attacking the Cause of God"  AB02314

on a Day when every learned one turned away, and every ignorant one remained in doubt.   BH10980

Soon that which will cause the deniers and the opposers anxiety and shame shall appear.  BH03747

the smoke of the calumniators and oppressors of the world hath darkened the atmosphere   BH06854

None denieth this save they who have disbelieved in God, the Lord of the mighty Throne   BH05178

In the days of the Blessed Perfection, Subhi Ezel. Now it is the head of the Nakazeen.   ABU1559

on a day when the divines of Thy earth and the theologians of Thy lands have turned away  BH10525

We beseech God to preserve thee from the imaginings of those who have disbelieved in God  BH08792

They uttered "O God" while they hanged His Manifestation and martyred Him with bullets.   BH02700

How many souls are today veiled from the Truth and deprived of this most exalted station  BH08333

neither the opposition of the world nor the conditions of the heedless can hold him back  BH07234

Look not upon the divines and their clamor, nor upon the princes and their turning away   BH03657

Thou didst enter prison for love of Me and didst drink the cup of tribulation in My Name  BH06269

Specific account of violence against mother, father and brother by other family members   AB01340

the clamor of the objectors has been raised and inflammatory papers are being circulated   BH08660

shall not be shaken by the doubts of the heedless ones nor the signs of the barking ones   BH05499

How long will ye, O concourse of divines, level the spears of hatred at the face of Baha?  BH10509

The enemies lie in wait and are striving through all means to extinguish the divine lamp.  AB01939

Throughout fifty years the Baha'i Faith has been under continuous torture and tribulation  ABU2823

However, O Muhammad-Husayn, this lamp is beset by tempestuous winds from every direction.   BH02397

description of imprisonment "under chains and fetters" and being "captive in that prison"   AB02168

By exiling us and confiscating all our estates the government hoped to blot out the family.  ABU0980

whom neither the clamor of the malicious nor the opposition of the aggressive hath deterred   BH10095

though they be dark and gloomy...the whisperings of the deniers shall not cause you to slip   BH08491

if their purpose was to create disturbance they would cease their persecution and oppression  BHU0027

O servant who hast been imprisoned in the path of God, thy Lord and the Lord of the worlds!   BH00853

The Divine Cause is blessed, but dangers surround it from every direction among all peoples.  ABU1023

Truly thou hast been subjected to oppression and cruelty and exposed to harm and affliction.  AB03120

The clamorous ones stand behind My servants who have turned unto God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH10643

The people are heedless, veiled, corrupted and oppressive, and this land too is in commotion   BH05560

them whom the scrolls of the sinful hindered not from turning to the light of Thy countenance  BH07775

they who have cast the Book of God behind their backs, having followed every remote pretender  BH06707

The people are heedless and oppressive, and have been and continue to be intent upon mischief.  BH03215

However, beseech God that you may remain firm in His Cause, for thieves lie in wait in ambush.  BH02519

the clamor of Thy creatures and the hints of those who have disbelieved in Thee and Thy signs   BH08377

We have found the people drunk, such that they have forgotten that whereof they were reminded   BH06500

The polytheists prevented Us from mentioning God, but We make mention of God in spite of them   BH05915

When the enemies of the Cause pillaged our home and confiscated all our properties in Teheran   ABU1876

A great multitude of bloodthirsty oppressors, like wild beasts, attacked the divine gazelles.   AB03688

Description of how "the party of the wicked" attacked Ali Khan when they discovered his faith   AB02468

yet the divines of the age have turned away from it and threatened Us with abasement and death   BH02311

The polytheists have surrounded the monotheists. Each day they scheme to seize some territory.   BH02079

Indeed He has protected thee from those upon whom the sun has not risen upon any more wretched.  BH01611

and certainly the attention of known souls will cause agitation and spread of false statements.  BH04026

in these days, due to the attacks and provocations of the unfaithful ones, there are obstacles   AB05066

"We had at one time very great sufferings and persecutions. We were greatly harassed at 'Akka."  ABU0950

In the time of Christ, Christians suffered great persecution. Twelve times they were massacred.  ABU0774

when the banner of tyranny was raised in the world and every idolatrous betrayer raised his cry   BH10981

When they gather together for the Cause, by this shall the hearts of the idolaters be scattered.   BH09146

Satan hath risen up amongst men and at every moment calleth the people unto the nethermost hell.   BH04485

in days when all on earth turned away from Thee save those whom the hand of Thy power did rescue   BH06189

he who was with thee was prevented by his desires from drawing nigh unto the Lord of all mankind   BH10091

among them are those who have clung to their desires, turning away from God, the Lord of all men   BH04027

In the city of Qum, due to excessive persecution by the enemies, the friends have been scattered.  AB12288

The present disturbances in Persia remind us of the French Revolution. In time, peace will come.   ABU3032

some of the Ministers have secretly spread the rumor that the Baha'is are the enemies of Christ.   ABU1789

Although you endured tribulations in the path of the Abha Beauty that were beyond human endurance  AB04108

yet the sightless ones of the world strive with utmost hatred and rancor to extinguish the light.   BH08525

Thereupon the polytheists dispersed from around it, and this is naught but a grievous punishment.   BH07787

Darkness hath encompassed all regions and the fire of tyranny hath surrounded Thy chosen servants.  BH09512

Therefore doth the Divine Lote-Tree lament for that which ye have wrought, O company of evil ones!  BH03005

pay no heed to them that have disbelieved, even should they bring thee all the scrolls of the earth  BH09587

From the earliest days, when day and night appeared as one due to the dust and smoke of oppression   BH05210

"neither the doubts of the clamorous ones nor the hints of any froward deceiver may hold thee back"  BH09924

The signs have appeared and the verses have been sent down, yet the people are in a strange stupor.  BH09482

the lamentations of them that have disbelieved in God, the Lord of all worlds, shall not sadden him   BH09351

By their own deeds they have become deserving of discord and opposition and darkness and ignorance.   BH08658

Neither the might of princes nor the clamor of divines could hold them back from the Lord of Names.   BH08026

the opposition and objection of the people of the world shall not debar them from the straight path   BH03422

When they turned away, tribulations seized them and they were encompassed by hardship and adversity   BH02738

every learned one turned aside, every knower objected, and every judge pronounced a remote judgment   BH07137

You have undoubtedly heard of the calumnies that appeared from the Sheikh of Yazd in the great city.  BH05596

Certain calumnies have spread among the tongues and mouths of people which are harmful to the Cause.  AB04029

the cawing of those who claim what hath not been ordained for them in the Book will not disturb them   BH10043

Verily the oppressor was deluded by wealth until he rose against the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.   BH07206

It has always been the practice of the heedless to hold back the sincere ones from the Cause of God.   ABU2861

Jinab-i-Ibrahim-i-?affar has been thrown into distress due to the severe opposition of the wrongdoers  AB12738

They committed that which caused the denizens of Paradise to weep and the Concourse on High to lament   BH07377

And among them was he who pronounced judgment against a thousand souls for the comfort of his own self  BH06643

such that the hosts of those who have denied God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, cannot hinder them   BH08317

they who have broken God's covenant and His testament and led His friends into the shadow of darkness   BH03686

Thou wrote about the oppression of the wicked - this is among the ancient habits of the people of fire  AB12026

like Jenab Aqa Muhammad Taji who wore a crown of thorns and was paraded through the streets and paths   AB06156

when all the divines of the earth turned away from Him save whom God, the Lord of all worlds, did will   BH09354

the cawing of the crows would be raised and the birds of night would stir in the towns and territories   BH07471

Reference to "the peoples who have denied Thy proof and Thy testimony and have disbelieved in Thy Day"   BH05802

Yet veils have prevented hearts, and the disease of selfish desires hath deprived eyes from beholding.   BH04416

for the cawing ones have been and are lying in wait for the friends of the Beloved of all possibility.   BH01368

while every envious one lieth in wait for him. O Lord! Protect him from the arrows of the corrupt ones   AB04726

such wrongs have appeared as no pen can describe... whom Thou seest beneath the claws of the oppressors   BH06585

They who have held themselves back from this Cause are accounted among the most lost in the Book of God   BH07398

Be not grieved by what they have said and uttered. Soon shall they behold the recompense of their deeds.  BH09065

those who denied the proof of God and His evidence, who disbelieved in His signs and disputed His Cause   BH08584

Then hatred stirred in the breasts of the wicked and the fire of rage and enmity blazed in their hearts   AB01364

However, the rebellious, heedless and transgressing souls have become the cause and reason of prevention.  BH05607

Hear thou the call of thy Lord, the Most High, at a time when the temples of hatred have surrounded Him.   BH07052

be not disturbed by the wrongdoers, for God shall soon seize them with His wrath and His sovereign might   BH02832

For in most lands, clamor has been raised and the croaking of the ravens has become manifest and evident.   BH08118

Therefore, the curse of God be upon those who have wronged Me without clear proof or an illuminating Book   BH11005

They desire to extinguish God's light with their mouths: but God willeth nought but to perfect His light.   AB07605

But other peoples are always thinking like fierce wolves and predatory beasts to attack the divine sheep.   AB01181

They brought these trials upon you to prevent you from the direction of divine favor and to disperse you.   AB06859

God protect us and you from the evil of those who have denied and oppressed and plundered and turned away.   BH10864

We call them unto God but they call Me to their desires. Verily they are among the companions of the Fire.   BH07593

We have mentioned to you a drop from the ocean of deeds of those who warred against God and His chosen ones  BH08935

while it is in the hands of the heedless ones... the Cause by which the faces of the divines were darkened   BH06336

Among them is he who hath claimed that He hath laid claim to divinity without clear proof or manifest Book.   BH07967

O Khalil! Thou wilt never know what befell the Friend of the All-Merciful from the manifestations of Satan.   BH02939

He came for the salvation of the world, yet the people seized Him and imprisoned Him in this mighty fortress  BH06829

Praise be to God that neither the veils of the opposers nor the clouds of the transgressors held thee back.   BH10716

Blessed is the one who was not deterred by the cawing of the cawers who denied God's proof and His evidence   BH09079

even after the opposition and objection of kings and others... when every polytheist and doubter turned away   BH04432

In days when princes, divines and people have arisen to oppose, the Hand of Divine Power hath protected thee   BH09521

neither the swords of enemies, nor the doubts of the divines, nor the allusions of the mystics deterred them   BH05592

Since this land in these days is very secretly troubled due to the intrigues and whisperings of certain souls  AB12420

Despite this, the ignorant ones imagine that, God forbid, we are the cause of corruption and promote enmity.   AB00721

And we hear from vision that which has attracted the heart of the world, yet the people remain in thick veils   BH09576

Let not distance grieve you, for the path is cut off through that which the hands of the wicked have wrought.   BH06426

Our purpose was that the cities of unity might be preserved from the fire of the oppression of the idolaters.   BH06285

Whatsoever hath appeared from the oppressors hath been and is the cause of the exaltation of His blessed Word.  BH02853

We have, for a while, tarried amongst this people, and failed to discern the slightest response on their part.  BHU0062

in the midst of the severest tests and the onslaught of every calamity and the occurrence of every affliction   AB01789

In these days attention is in no wise permissible, for the heedless are engaged in evident deceit and tyranny.   BH02063

the oppressors have come between Us and those who turned towards the dawning-place of the bounty of their Lord   BH05536

Thou seest the Beast opening wide its mouth and pursuing Thy loved ones who have believed in Thee and Thy signs  BH09499

And thereby were the breasts of the fettered ones constrained, such that they arose to war against His Beauty.   BH09306

They who have denied this Cause are, before God, the Lord of the worlds, among the worshippers of idle fancies   BH06375

whom the calumnies of such souls as have turned away from the signs and denied the evidences have not held back  BH11507

What injuries and afflictions they inflicted, and what schemes they devised to uproot the Tree of God's Cause!   ABU1552

As for the matter of the lifting of the hands of oppression from your home and residence, this caused happiness  AB05797

O peoples of the earth! Beware lest the deeds of the oppressors hold you back from God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH05870

the oppressors of the age - meaning the ignorant divines - have striven and continue to strive to cut them down   BH06362

the clamor of the heedless...the vain imaginings of the aggressive ones...the oppression of the tyrannical ones   BH05563

it should, out of prudence, be kept hidden and concealed, lest it foment hostility among the people of sedition.  AB12083

in days wherein every oppressor hath arisen, every transgressor raised his voice, and every polytheist denied God  BH10762

The peoples of the world exist to aid the Wronged One, and yet they secretly busy themselves helping His enemies.  BH02717

The fire of hatred was kindled when the Lord of all beings came with a sovereignty that encompassed the horizons.  BH02286

drink it in defiance of those who denied the right of God and His loved ones and followed every heedless doubter   BH06503

yet most among the people know it not... yet most among the people understand not... woe unto them that turn away  BH09460

the vilifying darts of those who have gone astray have no effect, and the cruel sword of the enemy hath no power   AB02891

The inhabitants of Baghdad then rose up against those helpless believers, sending them away as captives to Mosul.  AB00002

Thus has the Pen spoken in this Prison through which God has manifested His Cause despite every ignorant doubter.   BH08689

...the Cause whereby the feet of the learned have slipped, save those whom Thou didst rescue through Thy grace...   BH08910

yet the people are in manifest error. They have lost who denied the signs of God and His clear and luminous proof.  BH07708

the hosts of the wicked ones who have cast the signs of God behind their backs and followed every impious deceiver  BH05180

What befell Us hath befell thee. Blessed are We and thou and every steadfast and patient believer in tribulation.   BH03409

The cause of this listlessness is the breath of some heedless and thoughtless ones who correspond with that place   AB05151

On one side the attacks of the enemies from within, on another side the onslaught of the adversaries from without   AB04248

Blessed are they who remained steadfast in the Cause in those days wherein sedition appeared from every direction.   BH09970

Shaykh Fadlu'llah (Nuri) also rose in opposition to the Cause, which only resulted in his own downfall and demise.   ABU2056

These objections are always raised against the truth but the truth will march toward its ultimate goal of triumph.   ABU1648

If a famous person like yourself visits the exiles, they harbor suspicions and make up stories and invent calumnies  AB00771

All were waiting, yet when the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the world, they arose in opposition  BH07227

Today the deniers and polytheists are occupied with a hundred thousand tricks and stratagems to ensnare holy souls.   BH04570

Let not the circumstances of the prison sadden thee. Be thou confident in the grace of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH00613

neither the cawing of those who disbelieved in God, the Lord of all worlds, prevented Us from that which We desired   BH07392

the veils of Thy creatures who have turned away from Thy face and denied Thy proof and evidence shall not hinder me   BH08962

Be not disturbed by the people and their clamor. Be at peace through this bounty which hath encompassed the worlds.   BH04782

"As to the contention of those who deny and oppose, you have already had experience enough to know what this means."  ABU2898

The painful events in Shahrud are clear and known, and some time ago a response was written to console the friends.   AB09351

Yet when the Sun of Truth dawned from the horizon of the Promised Day, all arose in opposition save whom God willed.   BH07026

Surely you have heard that a group of Babis took their property and then denied it, raising disputes and contentions.  BH02219

Let not the multitude of enemies, nor the gloating of the wretched ones, nor the doubts of the divines prevent thee.   BH04649

Beware lest the cawing of the ravens or the oppression of the aggressors deter thee from God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH03543

Thou seest Thy loved ones scattered throughout Thy lands, and the Dayspring of Thy Cause oppressed among Thy servants  BH09951

He now stands before the hands of enemies, awaiting what has been ordained for him in the preserved Tablets of glory.   BH03233

the clamor of those who wear turbans who, in the presence of the ocean of knowledge, are accounted among the ignorant   BH03909

If today in any place the clamor of the polytheists is raised, it has been and will be the cause of harm to the Tree.   BH10697

But when the Sun of Manifestation shone forth from the horizon of divine will, all turned away and arose in opposition  BH05243

Know that the Bird hath flown from the branch of Iraq by reason of that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought  BH09911

description of person taking money from enemies to write anti-Baha'i book to "inflict severe harm on these wanderers"   AB00813

Beware lest the oppression of them that oppress prevent you. Soon will God cause them and what they possess to perish.   BH08880

Glory be upon the people of Baha, whom the doubts of the opposers have not kept back from God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH05711

Whenever the Sun of Truth hath risen from the horizon of divine Will, all people have arisen in opposition and protest   BH02346

We have summoned the people unto God - among them are those who have turned toward Him and those who have turned away.   BH07211

yet the people of hypocrisy have become a barrier between the loved ones and the dawning of the Daystar of the horizons  BH09486

The assault of the oppressors and the clamor of the malicious ones have somewhat subdued the friends in various lands.   BH03475

They have denied God's proof and His evidence, and have rejected His favor. Indeed, they are among the people of error.  BH01474

while the Wronged One was held beneath the talons of hatred through that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought   BH02989

Even if the entire world should rise up to harm this Wronged One, He hath not and will not collaborate with the corrupt.  BH11751

revealed and sent down this most impregnable Tablet in thy name from within the Most Great Prison amidst the oppressors   BH10551

They desired to extinguish the light of God by what they possess. Say: Perdition betide you, O company of the heedless!   BH02725

they who have disbelieved in God, the Revealer of verses... Leave those who have disbelieved to their vain disputations   BH08320

he spoke about a Roman Catholic priest in Acca who has been opposing the Cause and calumniating those who stand for it.   ABU3327

" This is especially so given such occurrences where a truthful, zealous person is dismissed and subdued without cause."  AB11866

The Egyptian newspapers are creating a commotion, including the Egyptian newspaper Al-Balagh which you will surely read.  AB09284

In these days the deniers and oppressors lie in wait at the outposts and are aflame with the fire of tyranny and hatred.   BH06172

Now a few have united to harm this Wronged One, but naught shall befall Us except that which God hath prescribed for Us.   BH03662

the clamor of those who have turned away from Thee and have been heedless of Thy sovereignty and have disputed Thy signs   BH06587

remain safe and secure from the arrows of the malevolent ones and preserved and guarded from the spears of the oppressors  AB12550

These transient black clouds will soon be completely dispersed and the sun of reality will shine forth with utmost power.  AB05618

The narrative describes violent persecution of Baha'is in Kashan, including executions and public mockery of their faith   ABU0490

They imagined that through imprisonment God's Cause and sovereignty would be altered. Nay, they are among the lowly ones.   BH07442

Where are they who turned away from God, who warred against His sovereignty, who disputed His signs and denied His proof?   BH04721

Know thou that the heedless drove Us from the land of mystery, seeking thereby to extinguish God's light amidst all else.   BH08303

The oppressor desired to extinguish the fire of God with the water of hatred and animosity. Thus did his soul entice him.   BH06861

The idolaters desired to extinguish the light by their vain imaginings. Nay! They are among the most lost in My Great Book  BH05564

and to protect them from the odors that emanate from the intimations of those who have denied God, the Revealer of verses   BH03631

protect in all conditions the people of unity in the cities and regions from the oppression of the polytheists and deniers   BH05025

Be not perturbed by the clamor of the people who have cast the Book behind their backs and followed every heedless doubter.  BH09125

The heedless ones desired to extinguish the light of God through oppression, but God prevented them through His sovereignty  BH03767

The wrongdoers shall soon find the recompense of their deeds. Thy Lord, verily, is the Avenger, the Almighty, the Powerful.  BH01014

there are some souls there who seek pretexts, intending through pure calumny to raise dust and bring down the sheep of God   AB02071

who have arisen in manifest tyranny, to such extent that they have severed the head of faithfulness with the sword of hatred  BH09339

they who have taken for themselves lords besides God and have prevented the people from turning to the Praiseworthy Station.  BH05092

Rejoice ye in the appearance of God and His sovereignty in such wise that the cawing of the idolaters shall not grieve you.   BH09013

on a day whereon the servants turned away from Thy Cause and disputed Thy signs and violated Thy covenant and Thy testament   BH03694

while immersed in oceans of tribulations and sorrows, and while tried among those the like of whom time hath never witnessed  BH03286

For example, the misguided Mirza Mehdi, in order to incite Abdul-Hamid to kill the exiles, included divine texts in his book  AB00491

Assuredly Ibn-i-Abhar will triumph over those two abortive ones, who are souls that rise up to oppose and dispute the truth.  AB02907

Today the Call of the Dawning-Place of the Self-Subsisting is raised, and likewise the clamor of the people of idle fancies.   BH09218

Render thanks unto God for having aided thee to acknowledge this Cause, from which every stubborn oppressor hath turned away.  BH07762

O Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones in the hands of the oppressors among Thy servants and the treacherous among Thy creatures.   BH04323

Thou seest and knowest that they have believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and they are surrounded by the wolves of Thy earth.   BH05083

O my God and my Lord! Thy religion hath been weakened by the assault of those who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs.   BH05892

when most of Thy creation turned away from Thee... the hearts of them who denied the proof and evidence were made to tremble   BH05784

By the life of God, he intended to martyr this Wronged One. Through pure grace and bounty I departed from among those souls.   BH09292

Mirza Taqi Khan, the Prime Minister, although he committed such oppression against the Cause that no one had ever done before  ABU2058

At present it is clearly evident that if it were to be established, it would become a cause of provocation to the oppressors.  AB11478

lest the hints and veils of the heedless and the opposers cause you to slip from and be barred from the straight path of God.   BH04764

As for the head of the police department whose aim is to falsely accuse the innocent - verily your Lord is the Great Protector  AB12234

Therefore you should have no expectation from them nor entertain any hope. You must endure their vilification and persecution.  AB09233

these enemies of ours create corruption and the hearts of our loved ones are troubled because these ones too are called Babis   AB00648

Every day from the clouds of the tyrannical ones' glory rain down calamities. The rights of the people have been entirely lost.  BH02242

"O maidservant of GOD, do not heed the denial of the deniers, the persecution of the opposers, nor the scorn of the Pharisees."  AB01623

inasmuch as the barking ones have at all times striven and continue to strive to lead astray the souls that have turned unto Him  BH06301

From all directions the arrows of calumnies of the deceivers and the spears of the atheists were striking the body of the Cause.  BH00018

in these days wherein the idolaters have encompassed Him from every side, and the clouds of grandeur rain down in grief for Him   BH01677

With satanic expressions he informed the ministers that the intention of the Baha'is was to destroy Mecca and kill non-Baha'is.   ABU1491

Although thou art in Kermanshah where danger threatens and thou art deprived of rest and comfort due to the onslaught of enemies  AB08008

The opposers and deniers have raised the standard of hypocrisy and are uttering calumnies the like of which have never been seen.  BH07937

I love to be reviled in Thy love and to be scorned in Thy path, even as I have heard in these days from Thy polytheist servants.   BH05097

O my Lord! I see Thy servants turning away from Thee, arising to extinguish Thy light and to quench the fire of Thy divine Tree.   BH06891

They that object to you are themselves wrapped in a manifest veil. Be not grieved by those who speak according to their desires.   BH05822

Grieve not for what hath befallen thee - greater than this hath befallen Us, to which both My tongue and thy tongue bear witness   BH09617

For several years I labored, hoping they would not leave the Cause, but the more we strived, the more they increased in audacity.  ABU3119

They desire to extinguish the fire of the love of God through great calumny, but it only increases in intensity, flame and blaze.  AB09933

they are unaware and have fallen into the snare of those who have no proof save calumnies and who seek naught but vain imaginings  AB06699

How many a prince turned away from the Truth and deprived himself of the Most Great Joy which appeared with manifest sovereignty!   BH07753

Beware lest ye be kept back by the clamor of your divines who have denied the proof of God and His mighty and glorious testimony.   BH03157

Grieve not at the people and their clamor... the doubts of those who have disbelieved in God and His signs, and denied this grace   BH01917

I enquired if in future the prophets of God will meet with the same opposition as those offered to Baha'o'llah, Mohamed and Christ  ABU3558

Never converse with the mullas, and likewise do not speak with prejudiced people, as it has no effect but rather causes mischief.   AB11682

He repaired to the 'atabat, and there too he languished under the oppression of the divines, until he perished at last in Baghdad.  ABU1923

They are scattered throughout the lands, oppressed among the servants, targets of blame's arrows, bearing every hardship and pain   AB11819

for We have previously announced that the braying will be raised and the book of wickedness and pages of fire will be spread abroad  BH06010

Verily it is under the claws of hatred, as attesteth My perspicuous Book. The winds of oppression have encompassed the Lamp of God   BH03570

But the fire of jealousy and hatred ever inflameth the idolaters and atheists. They are tormented in the fire yet perceive it not.   BH01955

"Their wretchedness hath so overtaken them that they behold power and yet deny it. Lo! They are indeed the companions of the fire."  BH05248

whereby the limbs of the names have quaked, the foundations of the idols have been shaken, and every sinful doubter hath lamented.   BH05387

they who have risen in opposition in such wise that they have pronounced judgment against Thee and shed the blood of Thy loved ones  BH03851

The opposition of the opposers and the tyranny of the oppressors have not and will never prevent the Truth from His manifest Cause.  BH06699

Merciless oppressors like unto ravening wolves have torn at the breasts of the gazelles of the field of God and drunk their blood.   AB07236

At the time we had no horse, no donkey, no carriage; for all our possessions had been pillaged - even a donkey had not been left us  ABU1792

The letters of negation have gathered to prevent the people from the shore of the Cause. Say: Woe unto you for what ye do this Day!   BH02516

whereby every idolator hath wailed, every heedless one hath cried out, and every ignorant one far removed hath been sorely troubled   BH09260

The barking ones and the hypocrites are occupied with leading the servants astray, and likewise the divines and the doctors of law.   BH08550

We bear witness to thy turning and devotion in days when most of the people of the world were observed to be heedless and in denial   BH11538

O Andalib! In the great city a group have gathered and resorted to calumnies, that perchance they might bring God's Cause to naught   BH03366

Since they have not caught a whiff from the rose garden of God's will, they oppose the friends of Truth out of fear for themselves.   BH00678

Verily He summoned the people unto God, yet they arose to harm Him in such wise as caused the dwellers of earth and heaven to lament  BH08987

O my Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones amidst the wolves of Thy earth and beneath the claws of those among Thy servants who hate them.  BH09207

"the hypocrites rose against you and the contentious ones oppressed you...cast you into the great prison and struck you with whips"   AB02484

Despite this, the winds of discord have surrounded me from every direction, and Thou seest me, O my God, in the hands of the wicked.   BH08434

yet the idolaters are in manifest loss...yet most of the people are among the heedless...when most of creation turned away from Thee   BH09773

whereby the limbs of the polytheists who denied Thy manifestation and broke Thy covenant and disputed Thy signs were made to tremble   BH08374

In every age, at the beginning the people of the veil caused harm and persecution, and every oppressor tyrannized the righteous ones.  AB05820

Nations considered each other's blood lawful to shed, plundered each other's properties, and never fell short in harming one another.  AB01148

certain souls will strive to extinguish the Fire of God that has been kindled, but through their efforts the flame will grow mightier  AB09387

Until he died he was always the target of darts and arrows, of curses and execration which rained down upon him from the wicked ones.  AB06231

Lost indeed are they who have denied the signs and proof of God, rejected His evidence, and turned away from His shining countenance.   BH01625

Thou seest and knowest what hath befallen Thy captives at the hands of the Manifestations of tyranny and the Daysprings of oppression   BH09500

That envious person Mahdi has risen in opposition since the time of Thuraya. All these things are the consequences of those newspapers  AB06138

circumstances have arisen such that the presence of the loved ones causes much talk and suspicion among the authorities of these parts  AB12308

This Wronged One Who hath been imprisoned in the pit of envy and hatred through that which the hands of the wretched ones have wrought   BH04296

Nevertheless, the children of earth who are occupied with playing in the clay have desired to prevent its lights and erase its mention.  BH05961

the oppressors prevented him from attaining the presence before the Throne. They have barred the doors... but the idolaters intervened   BH02151

In these days, presence in these regions and borders is difficult and inadvisable due to the intense opposition of the people of pride.  AB01254

Yet He hath concealed Himself behind the veil of clouds - far be it from those who suffer loss, and woe unto them who are disappointed!  AB09680

"Verily, he who turned away has said that which none in the world has ever said - to this every just and discerning one bears witness."   BH08345

inasmuch as the satans have appeared from every direction and with utmost cunning are occupied with destroying the fortress of the Cause  BH04372

For example, if meetings of five hundred people were to be arranged, the people would rise up in tumult and great problems would result.  AB11638

in the descent of tribulation and severity of harm and cruelty and the striking of the enemy's club and the whip of the people of hatred  AB03734

The idolaters and oppressors have wrought that which hath caused the Eye of Truth to weep and the Tablet to cry out and the Pen to swoon.  BH01513

Its enemies, therefore, from all the kindreds and peoples of the world, are growing aggressive, malevolent, envious and bitterly hostile.  AB02936

for the heedless nation of Iran along with its religious leaders resisted with utmost force for sixty years until that brilliant Star set  AB01834

It is a mathematical impossibility that a soul may comprehend the purport of the Teachings of Baha'u'llah and then arise to oppose them.   ABU2568

If a shrine were built, they would destroy it and it would cause an uproar, just as they destroyed the grave of Mirza Abdul-Husayn Afnan   AB11723

Now they have resorted to all means and instruments of corruption to break the glass of this lamp, that perchance it may be extinguished   AB07262

shun those in whose hearts thou perceivest resentment towards God and His loved ones; and enter not into disputation with the unbelievers   BH03983

O My God, Thou seest Thy chosen ones under the talons of Thine enemies, and Thy loved ones in the grasp of the wicked among Thy creatures.  BH08155

whereby the feet of the divines who cast the command of God behind their backs and followed vain imaginings and idle fancies have slipped   BH07146

yet when the Luminary of God's Command shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of inner meanings, all turned away save whom God willed   BH06298

Since the clamor of the enemies is loud, and the ignorant in all directions are like serpents in their striking at every person of wisdom   AB02469

If I knew that thou wouldst not think that I am afraid I would have sent thee a gift for writing such a book against the Baha'i Movement.   ABU2780

Now, see how unwise are the enemies of the Cause - who are endeavoring to resist this Truth and quench this Light. How senseless are they!  ABU0997

You and all the friends in Tiflis have truly suffered many hardships from base people this year and fallen into difficulties and troubles   AB06572

Cruelty and aggression have destroyed the edifice of love and faithfulness. The Centre of the Covenant is wronged by the people of malice.  AB08494

Although during these years of war we were in hardship, difficulty and danger, you also had your share and were wandering and a stranger.   AB05465

neither the clamor of the wasps deterred him from the Lord of Lords, nor did the power of the divines frighten him from the Lord of Names.   BH02954

Today the manifestations of Satan are occupied with all manner of schemes to prevent the people from drawing near to the shore of oneness.   BH08736

How great are the tribulations that you have sustained at the hands of the Romans and the Muslims and others, and yet you have persevered.   ABU1825

Nevertheless, some souls, when the winds of trials blew, returned to the nethermost depths and turned away from the realm of divine oneness   BH10570

Beware lest the intimations of those who cling to vain imaginings sadden you... nor be overtaken by the doubts of those who have denied God   BH05502

The evil ones have ever lain in wait for God's loved ones, and through tales of the past they prevent the servants from the supreme horizon.  BH09796

days wherein the Temple of Justice hath been shaken by the onslaught of tyranny and the Faithful Spirit hath lamented in an exalted station   BH08798

Thus hath the Most Exalted Pen spoken while the Wronged One was walking in the prison because of what the hands of the wicked have wrought.   BH00633

There befell you from tribulations what none can reckon save God, the Lord of all worlds. All things are engaged in weeping and lamentation.  BH03672

In these days it is not permissible to turn toward the direction of the Desired One, for the ungodly and hypocrites have arisen to prevent it  BH03913

Those people are intoxicated with vain desires. Were they to know, they would lament over their deeds, but today they are veiled and covered.  BH00239

which when it appeared caused the feet of those who turned away from the Countenance to slip, while they turned unto every rejected idolator   BH07823

lest the oppression of the tyrannical ones prevent them from gazing toward the horizon of Thy bounty and turning to the direction of Thy Cause  BH07675

Especially in these days in the Most Great Prison the fire of hatred is ablaze, wherefore the Most Exalted Pen hath paused in its expression.   BH02791

Rejoice in My remembrance in these days wherein the idolaters have risen against Us without any clear proof from God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH01710

They have driven Us from Our homes and brought Us into other lands. Thus hath it been decreed in the Tablet by One Who is powerful and mighty.  BH04324

For some time now, the prison-land hath been in turmoil, for one from among the people of hatred occupied the seat of government for a period.  BH03876

neither the croaking of them that have disbelieved nor the braying of the evil-doers may cause thee to stumble. Verily the satans lie in wait   BH09497

The polytheists have violated God's covenant and His testament, and have denied His proof and His evidence, following every heedless doubter.   BH00840

for the hosts of Satan lie in wait and have been and are seeking to lead astray the loved ones of God. They are but in manifest error and loss   BH10237

We have encountered from those who claim to love Us that which the Daysprings of Revelation never encountered from the hosts of the oppressors   BH03692

Some among the people, with complete deception and guile, have been and continue to be lying in wait for the souls who have accepted the Faith.  BH01679

Blessed is he who hath turned towards it, whom neither the opposition of the divines nor of the rulers hath kept back from this Straight Path.   BH01498

Be not perturbed when the bellowing of the Calf is raised and the veils of allusions prevent the people from drawing nigh unto the holy court.   BH05907

neither the clamor of the ignorant nor the croaking of those who have disbelieved in God, the Lord of all that was and shall be, may deter you   BH05115

their tyranny and oppression shall not frighten me, nor their might and power weaken me, nor their clamor silence me, nor their hosts prevent me  BH03836

And peace be upon him who conveyeth the Cause of his Lord and is not prevented by the derision of enemies nor their heedlessness nor their harm.  BH02203

the clamor of the divines who have pronounced judgment against Me and My loved ones, without any proof or Book from God, the Lord of all worlds   BH06735

By the life of God! This Most Great Revelation hath ever been, and continueth to be, independent of the acceptance or rejection of the peoples.   BH07474

But the friends who remained in this transient dust-heap receive new blows at every moment and are slain by sword and dagger with every breath.   AB03665

"Two years ago I came to you and exclaimed that you are the chief of all the infidels. Now I want to tell you that you are not an Arch-infidel."  ABU3448

In the days when the Luminary of the horizons arose with God's command in Iraq, the people of hypocrisy opposed Him and sought to shed His blood   BH02047

Be not grieved by the opposition and objections of the people. Soon shall the people of that land and other lands pride themselves in your names.  BH04838

The divine friends have summoned all to eternal life and the light of oneness, while the enemies have ordered their banishment and imprisonment.   BH09134

the imaginings of the learned and the doubts of those who have denied Thy right, broken Thy Covenant, and disputed Thy verses shall not hinder me  BH06295

The effects of tyranny and oppression have encompassed the world and have prevented the trees of the garden of inner meanings from bearing fruit.  BH10088

Internal difficulties and calamities are beyond measure - that is, the constant onslaught of the negligent ones from all directions at all times.  AB04895

if you knew the degree of tribulations and calamities that have befallen us, and the extent of occupations, difficulties, troubles and obstacles   AB03021

Description of Jamal Pasha's threats to hang Abdu'l-Baha and attempts to meet with him, and Abdu'l-Baha's response of willingness to be martyred   AB00429

Some of those present, being claimants to knowledge, became disturbed and were filled with such hatred and jealousy that it cannot be described.   ABU1449

The ignorant have always taunted the wise, and those deprived have always blamed those who are privy to the intimate secrets of the All-Merciful.  AB07543

on a day when the divines of the earth and its doctors and mystics have turned away therefrom, save whom God, the Lord of the worlds, hath willed   BH10105

They have committed that which hath caused the denizens of the pavilions of glory to lament, as this Wronged One beareth witness in this station.   BH09968

This in days when the divines, mystics and all souls are seen to be opponents and deniers, save a small few whom the hand of grace hath delivered   BH09165

O people of God, and upon those whom the scourge of the oppressors, the rifles of the deniers, and the cannons of the idolaters did not frighten.   BH00839

They had denounced us so bitterly on the day of our arrival...What is their justification for having demanded that he be immediately put to death?  BHU0012

"whereby the feet of those who deemed themselves the most exalted among men have slipped when the Truth came unto them with manifest sovereignty."  BH08158

No one would associate with her, and all her relatives--even her husband and two sons--showed the greatest enmity and would oppress and revile her.   AB00098

But the corruption, sedition, calumny and slander of the oppressors among the acquaintances has reached such a degree that it cannot be described.  AB01858

Despite how much he insisted that his son abandon this Faith, it bore no fruit. Finally, he gave away and sold his property and disinherited him.   ABU1536

remind the people of this Cause at which all who are on earth have been dismayed, save those upon whom the breezes of thy Lord's mercy have wafted   BH03646

Every ignorant one hath turned away from Us, and every idolater remote from truth hath opposed Us... yet the idolaters remain in manifest delusion   BH05958

How strange that those who have drawn the swords of passion against the countenance of Him Who desired to admit them into the kingdom of their Lord  BH01962

Be ye in such wise that neither the veils of the divines prevent you from the Lord of all names, nor the doubts of those who have denied the Truth   BH03903

"the opposition of those who have disbelieved in the signs of God after their revelation and followed every rejected idolator shall not deter them"  BH07296

Beware lest the affairs of the world prevent you from the Ancient Lord. Abandon them and take what you have been commanded by the Mighty, the Wise.  BH00062

Despite this, what accusations the Muslims made! What things they said - that the Baha'is are enemies of the government and nation, this and that!   ABU2833

Yet the opponents shoot at them with penetrating arrows and attack them like ravening wolves and fierce beasts, making them taste grievous torment.  AB00841

Soon it will become clear and the deaf uncle will become like Abu Lahab (perish his hands), falling into torment and becoming a carrier of firewood  AB01177

God willing, may ye remain so steadfast in the divine Cause that neither the cawing of the crows nor the allusions of the opposers shall deter you.   BH09074

Soon will the barking ones and the idolaters enter those regions and surroundings, and will arise in the name of truth to lead the servants astray.   BH06870

when he was in prison at the hands of the idolaters... We prevented him from arriving because of that which the hands of the oppressors had wrought   BH06161

When he came to Akka and requested to meet me...said, "You are a corrupter of religion, and for this reason the Iranian government exiled you here."  ABU0431

In these times when the nations of the world seek to resist the Cause of the Most Great Name, and the peoples and nations oppose the Ancient Beauty   AB03467

Soon shalt thou witness thy Lord's triumph, whereby His Cause shall be raised to such a station that before it shall bow the necks of the proud ones.  BH02332

Verily, they who have turned away from God and denied His sovereignty are accounted among the most abject of creatures in the Scriptures and Tablets   BH07750

in days wherein the mountains of vain imaginings were scattered and perturbation seized the servants who were debarred from this praiseworthy station  BH04806

woe unto him who hath prevented people from attaining the presence of the Face and hath become a hindering veil between them and their Ancient Lord.   BH04105

In truth, the polytheists and aggressors have surrounded the unitarians and their towns and villages from all directions, attacking from every side.   BH02761

for the mischief of the mischief-makers, both open and concealed, is constant and continuous. They give not a moment's respite nor do they seek rest   AB05598

For when Gobineau was in Iran, the Iranian government would immediately execute anyone suspected of being a Babi. No Babi dared utter a single word.   AB02045

but due to several reasons and the severe attacks of enemies and the aggressive hand of oppressors and complete persecution, some quietness resulted   AB01346

yet when I manifested My Self they turned away from Me and pronounced judgment against Me with such injustice as caused the Faithful Spirit to lament   BH07308

The people have denied God's right and His Revelation, have disputed His signs, and have turned away from His proof which hath encompassed existence.   BH03980

And when the tablets of the fabricators and the papers of the idolaters are spread abroad, cast them aside through My power and might and sovereignty   BH02584

you should not be distressed by the calumnies that have arisen and the evil intentions of false persons and the efforts of the dying, not living, band  AB00679

People are exerting [great efforts] to extinguish the Light of God. They have written and will write many polemics, as they recently wrote in Tihran.   ABU2464

the clamor of the idolaters did not prevent from the Divine Lote-Tree, and whom the oppression of the tyrannical did not keep back from the love of God  BH07914

that I may be protected therein through Thy bounty and kept safe within it from the darts of those who have disbelieved in Thee, through Thy strength.   BH11085

We have explained to thee somewhat of what hath befallen God's chosen ones of old and in these days through what the hands of the infidels have wrought  BH07814

O Lord! Thou seest the enemies in the height of might, power and majesty, while Thy chosen ones are in utmost weakness, powerlessness and supplication.  BH00807

"every morning they cry out and wail from the onslaught of the people of discord...with every breath they are afflicted by some evil-minded oppressor."  AB04900

Thou didst lament the onslaught of the enemy and hast good reason to do so. These oppressors are like bloodthirsty wolves that attack a flock of sheep   AB05716

Even though thy home was pillaged and thy nest ravaged, even though they completely and utterly cleaned out all thy possessions and burnt thy property   AB07569

Although the cry of the polytheists is raised to such heights that the voice of the monotheists cannot be heard, save by him who hath a penetrating ear   BH03995

In these days the most ignorant among the people of the world have risen in opposition, therefore turning to the Most Exalted Horizon is not permitted.   BH03830

thou beholdest Me a stranger among the oppressors. None is there to speak with Me of that which would gladden Me in this Most Great, Most Mighty Cause.   BH02267

At any rate, he who cavils is merely seeking an excuse to do so; he himself is giving testimony to the greatness of the Cause without even realizing it.  ABU3741

some of the companions, upon merely witnessing reprehensible deeds from those who have attributed themselves to the Truth, have withdrawn from the Truth   BH09813

We counsel thee to observe wisdom in all matters, lest there arise that which would cause the clamor of the deniers to be raised...woe betide the deniers  BH03580

Most of the servants are occupied with previous vain imaginings and have not realized that those vain imaginings of the previous party produced no fruit   BH02681

what the oppressors have wrought against the children of the Virgin...what hath befallen the chosen ones of God at the hands of them that comprehend not   BH09690

There hath befallen you in the path of God that which hath befallen no other among the servants, to such extent that the pen is powerless to recount it.   BH03360

The false one hath misled the people in the name of truth... thieves lie in ambush, waiting and watching, and have appeared with utmost cunning and guile   BH08438

Who was not deterred by the might of the wicked or the clamor of the evil ones in these days when the fire of tyranny and oppression blazeth on all sides.  BH00581

Give praise to the Ancient Lord that He has enabled thee to turn unto Him in days when most people, learned and ignorant alike, have risen in opposition.   BH04181

They who have denied this Revelation, these have not believed in God from time immemorial...Do ye worship the calf and oppose God, the Lord of all worlds?  BH03273

Through their actions and oppression God shall raise up that which He desireth. To this beareth witness My Most Exalted Pen from its most sublime station.  BH02223

"For us, we augur an evil omen from you: if ye desist not, we will certainly stone you, and a grievous punishment indeed will be inflicted on you by us."   AB06792

The opposers and deniers have raised the standard of hypocrisy and utter calumnies unprecedented, reviving anew the vain imaginings of the former peoples.   BH07592

neither the oppression of the divines, nor the clamor of the ignorant, nor the braying of the wicked, nor the croaking of the evil ones shall extinguish it  BH08899

the opposition of the Pharaohs among Thy creatures and the tyrants of Thy lands who claim knowledge without proof from Thee or testimony from Thy presence   BH07470

Follow not the ways of the oppressors who shed blood and consume the substance of men wrongfully. We bear witness that they are among the treacherous ones   BH04248

The oppressors destroyed the house and plundered the possessions, and thou thyself became a wanderer in mountain and desert until thou didst reach Tehran.   AB04773

Although you became wanderers and were left without home or shelter, endured severe hardships, bore great tribulations, and suffered numerous difficulties   AB04862

the doubts of the suspicious ones and the opposition of the deniers have prevented people from drawing near and deprived them of the fragrance of eternity.   BH08456

This being among the tidings which the Most Exalted Pen hath given to all in Zawra and the Land of Mystery and upon first arrival at the Most Great Prison.   BH02762

correspondence has become very difficult, since from all directions they are trying to intercept the letters... Corruption and sedition are at their height   AB03099

Hereafter, enemies will be many. They would use this subject as a cause for disturbing the mind of the government and confusing the thoughts of the public.   AB03141

In London some of the clergy struck such blows that they cannot be described. If you had read the Church Times newspaper you would know what was happening.   AB00502

"Slay Me not with the swords of rejection and hatred, and deny not that whereby your faith was established and your station exalted and this Cause upraised"   BH04153

Every day, through the deception of the Isle, they have attributed and continue to attribute treachery to the dawning-places of trustworthiness and assurance  BH01987

in these days, due to the fire of hatred burning in the breast of the chief of this land and his followers, We have withheld permission, as a wisdom from Us   BH00314

"By God, the ranks have been rent asunder, noses ground in the dust, the confederates scattered, and the gathering of the peoples of the horizons dispersed."  AB04927

Thou wilt be blamed for My sake; thou wilt be injured for My sake; people will attribute to thee infidelity for My sake; thou wilt bear trouble for my sake.   ABU2535

In this time when the fire of trials has been kindled in the lands of Iran, and the flames of tyranny and aggression have consumed the bodies of the friends   AB03915

When in Akka, the government arrested seventy Orthodox Christians to pay the poll tax, but since they were poor they were unable to and thus were imprisoned.  ABU1850

They chained Haji's hand to one companion and his foot to another with a chain, and did the same to the others, then exiled and imprisoned them in Khartoum.   ABU1540

woe unto him who hath denied God's proof and His evidence, and committed that which caused the rocks to cry out and raised the lamentation of the sincere ones  BH10109

Let not the call of some of the hosts of negation cause you to doubt, and be not heedless of the Truth, for in every Revelation such differences have appeared  BH04415

Thou seest Thy loved ones among Thy servants who have turned away from Thy face and disputed Thy signs and opposed those who have arisen to promote Thy Cause.  BH09868

When one who barks comes to you with papers of fire or with the book of the nethermost realm, cast them behind you, turning to God, the Lord of the final end.  BH06704

From this uproar of the mischief-makers, the divine fragrances will spread more widely and the miracle of that enchanting narcissus will become more evident.   AB05328

Detailed account of violent persecution: "How they have fallen under the claws of ferocious beasts and the talons of ravenous wolves who tear them to pieces"   AB00483

Be sure that the different nations will curse you, blame you, bear animosity toward you and harm you. They will even act in such a way as to shed your blood.   ABU0713

Blessed art thou for having turned unto God on a day when the learned of the age denied Him - save those whom God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, did please.  BH10114

yet they remain deprived and forbidden from the fragrances of the days of God and the breezes of His mercy due to the buzzing of flies and croaking of ravens.   BH07530

The onslaught of the enemies is but the darkness of night, while the gracious aid of the Abha Kingdom is the dawning light of day; wherefore dost thou grieve?   AB05558

"refuting the doubts of the party of falsehood who are committed to sophistry and concealment so as to make the matter unclear to those weak in mind and heart"  AB11686

You have been subjected to attacks by the wicked and exposed to the aggression of the iniquitous. You have not rested for a moment nor drawn a peaceful breath.  AB04391

It is evident that the heroes among men and the mightiest of servants are, on the Day of Manifestation, deprived and forbidden by the assault of the oppressors.  BH06006

We have heard mention of thee and witnessed thy turning and orientation toward the Dayspring of Revelation on a day wherein hatred appeared from all directions.  BH01923

Until now this land hath not been at rest, and every day a fire is ignited. We beseech God to extinguish the fire of rancor and hatred and discord and hypocrisy  BH01703

Some caviled at me, and determined to hurt me and slay me. Others drank to the full of the wine of Thy grace, and hastened towards the habitation of Thy throne.  BH05716

due to the shock inflicted by the enemies and the assault of the rabble. Her bones were crushed and her flesh melted away from the onslaught of the ignoble ones  AB08484

Those who speak for God's sake, keep silent for God's sake, and turn to God - these do the rulers of the earth and the divines of the age consider to be corrupt.  BH11038

In these days a new event hath occurred in the City of Lovers. Verily the serpent hath opened its mouth and bitten the Dawning-Place of his Lord's loving-kindness  BH03002

The calumniators lie in ambush and the barking ones watch from their places of concealment. Guard your hearts and minds in the name of God, exalted be His glory.   BH02299

Glory be to God! The oppressors of the earth have reached such a state of tyranny that the Pharaohs and tyrants of the world seek refuge in God from their deeds.   BH01383

therefore his humility and supplication at the peerless threshold of the Lord is accepted and every prayer he has offered for the friends of God will be answered   AB11848

The opposition of the world did not prevent the Most Great Name from proclamation, and the bullets of the peoples' factions did not hold Him back from His purpose   BH04358

Despite these signs, a few like bats tried to hide this manifest light and to make this brilliant sun wander, but they gained no benefit and saw nothing but loss.   AB04022

Night and day we are caught up with the corruption and false accusations of this unjust group, and tribulations and hardships and calamities come like ocean waves   AB01257

He was exceedingly antagonistic. He strove mightily to uproot Christianity, but failed. We killed them and imprisoned them severely, yet day by day they increase.   ABU0774

And now the people of discord are determined to strip this divine brocade from the beautiful form of the Cause of God and clothe it in the old sackcloth of doubts.  AB08700

They claim faith within themselves, yet they object to the One True God, the All-Informed. Thus have their souls enticed them, and they are truly among the losers.   BH06935

Sorrows have increased at this time by what We observe of the Temple of Love and those with him beneath the claws of hatred from among the hosts of the wrongdoers.   BH02064

Neither the opposition of the oppressors, nor the clamor of the pharaohs, nor the derision of any polytheist, nor the rancor of any malevolent one could deter him.   BH00448

In such condition We summon the peoples unto the Lord of eternity in such wise that neither the oppression of tyrants nor the ascendancy of Pharaohs can hinder Us.   BH03141

Those who have disbelieved wished to extinguish this Light shining from the horizon of thy Lord's will, the Most High, the Great. Nay, by My life! None can do this.  BH07088

"However, the unjust people became a barrier and, through false tales and fabricated statements, prevented ears from hearkening to the scratching of the Divine Pen"  BH01661

The manifestation of the people of forgetfulness hath been darkened by the intensity of the storms of doubts blowing from the direction of suspicions and imaginings  AB07119

In every instance they resort to all kinds of means so that they may extinguish the lamp of the Covenant and cause the darkness of violation to encompass the world.  AB00367

Similarly people addressed Mohamad: We see only the low and ignorant members of the community are thy followers. Therefore we cannot believe in thy divine mission.   ABU2023

"When a Kurdish Motosarref came to Acca he intrigued against us, carried false reports and was so offensive as to wish me offer him bribe as the price of silence."   ABU1528

When he embraced this Cause, they pursued him with such dogged perseverance and enmity that he was finally obliged to leave his own native land and come to Bagdad.   ABU0438

Several souls have opposed and acted with cruelty towards the faithful friends, seeking to extinguish these few Persians and eliminate these oppressed Zoroastrians.  AB06118

In these years of war the oppressors extended the hand of aggression against you and spared no effort, and 'Abdu'l-Baha was affected by these heart-rending events.   AB01921

Hold fast unto the cord of thy Lord's loving-kindness and pay no heed to those who turn away and object. Soon shall they pass away and find for themselves no refuge   BH04399

turn away from the faces of the idolaters and from him in whose heart is hatred of God. By God! His face shall change and from him shall waft the odors of barrenness  BH05669

For the loftiness of this Cause, due to the frequency of opposition from the Persian government and the intensity of the attackers, is not apparent as it should be.   AB00571

The Turkish government wanted to prove us guilty and Abdul Hamid was always trying to find something against us, but in the end it was proved that we were faithful.   ABU0261

Your letters arrived and I became aware of your sighs, lamentations, weeping and wailing over the calamity that befell the loved ones and the attack of the enemies.   AB01052

wherein the feet of most men have slipped, some seeking to slay Him, others rising up to plot against His Cause. But the scheming of the idolaters hath ended in ruin   BH02486

The world hath been set ablaze by the fire of oppression and the hosts of the wicked have encompassed the righteous. From all sides is heard the rumbling of cannons.   BH01040

And concerning the tribulations that have befallen the loved ones - there hath befallen them in that place what befell Us in the prison. Say: Be not grieved thereby.   BH01220

For every oppressive person lies in ambush and every ignorant soul harbors intense hatred and malice. The divine sheep must be protected from the evil of these wolves  AB05737

Although the ungodly have stretched forth the hand of aggression, destroyed the homes and dwelling places of the friends, and pillaged and plundered their possessions  AB03620

They are now awaiting the infliction of great harm upon 'Abdu'l-Baha. Therefore the Holy Land is now in danger and this servant is in the midst of a storm of perils.   AB02888

The previous calamities were so numerous and yet in this most recent disturbance of the revolution ye have once more became the target of the arrows of the oppressor.  AB07001

However, the ignorant have presumed to suppress this illumination and think in its stead to spread the darkness that emanates from their selfish desires and passions.  AB09470

when the light of the dawn of Revelation became manifest and evident from the horizon of Sinai, heedless souls emerged from behind the veil and united with the enemies  BH05333

But the people turned away from Him and denied His Manifestation and whatsoever was revealed from Him, out of transgression against God, the Lord of the Mighty Throne.  BH11693

Verily the idolaters desired to extinguish the light of God with their hosts and arose to put out the fire of My Lote-Tree. Say: Perdition betide you, O heedless ones!  BH09233

But you do not know how much the faithless ones opposed and what corruption they caused to prevent this edifice from being raised and this station from being elevated.  AB00541

"What afflictions they have seen, what calamities they have endured, and what poisons they have tasted! Not for a moment have they seen the face of comfort and ease."   AB01135

They that are shut out as by a veil from Thee have imagined that they have the power to put out Thy light, and to quench Thy fire, and to still the winds of Thy grace.   BH08838

The One Who came with the Kingdom of verses - against Him have the people risen up, while he who cannot speak in the presence of His countenance is deemed the Beloved.   BH06607

The fragrances of revelation have been diffused throughout the world, but the nations have turned away from them, having followed the dawning-places of vain imaginings   BH06376

The evil ones have been and are lying in wait with utmost cunning, and in the name of truth have prevented and continue to prevent the people from the highest horizon.   BH03479

From a certain person in that city there occurred that which caused the heart of this Wronged One to lament and groan. It behooveth Us to conceal what hath befallen Us   BH03246

Yet alas, the faithless ones strive with utmost effort to extinguish the brilliant lamp, cut off the perfumed breeze, and prevent the scented fragrance from spreading.   AB06650

"Thou art well aware, O my Lord, that I hear the howling of the wolves which appear in Thy servants' clothing. Keep safe, therefore, Thy loved ones from their mischief"   BH04231

When the Self-Subsisting appeared and the Hour came, the clamor of the servants arose and they stood up to extinguish the light of God, the King, the Mighty, the Great.   BH03103

Praise be to God that the people of corruption are always disappointed and at a loss, while the well-wishers among the people of God are ever victorious and triumphant.   AB06681

Those were difficult and troublesome days indeed. As it was almost impossible then to meet you, I was longing and praying for a greater opportunity and a better chance.   ABU0224

Today the enemies are seen to have gained ascendancy over the friends. As ye have witnessed and heard, most cities and regions have fallen under the control of strangers   BH09265

Their mention shall never be erased from the book of the world, nor shall their traces be concealed on account of the tyranny and oppression of the pharaohs of the earth   BH07557

Soon shall the names of the oppressors be erased from the world, and your names shall be seen shining like the morning star from the horizons of the heaven of utterance.   BH05683

The people of tyranny and the companions of wickedness have wrought that which hath caused the sun and moon to lament, and to weep over the oppression of the Wronged One.  BH08748

the friends in Iran are constantly in trouble and suffering, and are in tribulation and hardship from the oppression and tyranny of the religious scholars and the people   AB04284

Now in most lands the barking ones are spread abroad, and this was among the tidings We mentioned in Zawra and the Land of Mystery and this land, whereof We informed all.   BH04584

Be thou a friend to those who love the Beloved One and an enemy to those who oppose Him...Those who have taken partners with God this day are in manifest error. Shun them   BH05912

those who sought to extinguish Thy light through their doubts and insinuations and to quench the fire of Thy Divine Lote-Tree through their vain imaginings and whisperings  BH06473

If in these days matters that cause grief are witnessed, behold them all as moths around the lamp - if they briefly intervene, in an instant they are destroyed and perish.  BH00345

Call them not human - rather call them beasts of the wilderness. Say not they are men - rather call them cattle and oxen, and say they are bereft of justice and fairness.   AB02403

Mirza Mehdi is of no consequence, but what is strange is that some newspaper owners like Hilal and Manar immediately publish whatever that slanderer says in their papers.   AB01386

With reference to me he stated that he was waiting for the fulfillment of the promise in the verse, 'God will assuredly send down one who will deal mercilessly with him.'   ABU3304

The Shah, upon hearing of the vision, became very angry, declaring that the English writing indicated some design on the part of the Babis, whom he would utterly destroy.   ABU2513

The text describes the cruel persecution and execution of Baha'is in Kashan, including mockery and derision from the crowd, and physical violence culminating in execution   ABU0490

Although in these days personal calumnies have secretly kindled the fire of sedition and hatred, God shall soon reveal that which was hidden in the breasts of the opposers.  BH01857

These base and vile beings, who are the epitome of all those who have been rejected and cast out in every Dispensation, have risen up with the utmost hatred and animosity.   BH11480

A book from the Wronged One to him who hath attained unto the remembrance of God and His praise, and hath turned towards His horizon when most of the servants turned away.   BH05135

"Beware lest the doubts of men hold you back from the Greatest Perspective, or the might of the oppressors frighten you--they who have broken the Covenant in the final end"   BH04926

may you be occupied at all times with the remembrance of the All-Merciful and be protected from the evil of the followers of religions who have turned away and disbelieved.  BH04167

The friends of God are imprisoned without any crime. We belong to God and to Him we shall return. The fire of hatred was ignited but God extinguished it through His power.   BH10238

The Wronged One of the horizons, despite the tribulations that descended and calamities that befell Him, summoned all the peoples of the world to God, exalted be His glory.  BH08443

From every direction enemies are attacking. Muslims from one side, Covenant-breakers from another side, the fanatics and priests burning in the fire of hatred and jealousy   ABU2968

Details of plots and accusations against 'Abdu'l-Baha by Covenant-breakers, including attempts to have him exiled or killed through false accusations to Ottoman authorities  AB00625

These foolish people wish, in their depraved state, to oppose a Cause that has stirred both East and West and directed the attention of humanity to the kingdom of sanctity.  ABU3736

Proclaim what hath been prescribed unto thee in this Tablet, though all the peoples arise and oppose thee. Thy Lord is, verily, the All-Compelling, the Unfailing Protector.   BH04818

We have ever been in the hands of Our enemies - at times captive, at times imprisoned, at times in chains. The tribulations of the world did not prevent the Most Great Name.  BH00224

Blessed art thou for having turned unto God and believed in Him on a day wherein most of the people have turned away, as attesteth the Book of God, the Mighty, the Wondrous.  BH11659

the idolaters who have denied God and His signs and have surrounded the unitarians with such tyranny as hath caused the people of the cities of justice and equity to lament   BH04437

I beseech Thee to make me so strong through Thy power that the onslaught of Thine enemies may not frighten me, nor the might of the oppressors among Thy creatures weaken me.   BH04111

At times they kill, at times they imprison, and at times they lead into captivity. Nevertheless, they have been and remain defeated, while the Cause of God is ever ascending.  BH02630

For many have imagined and will imagine, and the croaking of the raven shall be raised from most lands, even as mentioned in Tablets revealed during the migration from Iraq.   BH02413

We are oppressed among Our enemies - be ye as We are. By God the Truth, the cry of the oppressed is more beloved before God than the worship of most people, were ye to know.   BH02529

"And if any one of you knows that people desire to oppress him in any way, it is incumbent upon him to emigrate with God's permission or conceal himself from all the people."  BB00495

Mirza Muhammad-'Ali and Majdu'd-Din and other enemies are at the height of corruption and calumny. They intercept letters from the post. There is much tumult and many trials   AB06852

"The people in the beginning will oppress; may, they will consider it a disgrace and dishonor to associate with the believers, but afterwards they will glory in their names."  AB07478

Notwithstanding that all earthly powers and antagonistic peoples and religions arose against Him in order to thwart His efforts and executed twenty thousand of His followers   ABU2578

the people of Baghdad all rushed forth and through various intrigues and schemes, by means of the government court, took possession of the Shrine and expelled its caretakers.  AB11908

Take heed lest the oppression of the oppressors sadden you. Soon shall they lament over their own souls while ye shall abide in the most exalted station with joy and radiance.  BH08913

The idolaters of the land became obstacles and barriers, yet praise be to the Absolute Truth that despite the greatest hindrance, you attained unto the Most Luminous Horizon.   BH05292

Coming to this quarter in these days is not permitted, for the opposers, for no reason - as the Persians say - seek pretexts and wish to find some pretext to raise an uproar.   BH01224

The rabble of the world have arisen to extinguish the light of the Ancient King, and with utmost striving have endeavored and continue to endeavor to destroy the Cause of God.  BH07889

the doubts of the polytheists and the denial of the opposers and the insinuations of the heedless might not prevent attracted souls from the Dayspring of the light of oneness   BH01707

the enemies have arisen to publish false statements... In any case, these false publications have had no effect, rather the opposite - they have caused people to investigate.   AB11640

The enmity, corruption and persecution of the oppressors in Jerusalem, the plains of Karbila and the square of Tabriz became clear and evident - to what degree it has reached.  AB02773

"Around his neck are the marks of iron chains and on his feet are the traces of fetters and bonds, and on his body are the signs of severe torture and punishment in Thy love."  AB02166

For some time no special letter hath been written to you, but ye know not how 'Abdu'l-Baha hath been caught in the claws of animosity, without a moment's respite even to sigh.  AB08296

For twelve hundred years they made claims to knowledge and wisdom, yet the final outcome of the acts and words of the Shi'ih party was the decree to slay the Lord of the world.  BH03293

Let not the denial of the unbelievers grieve thee. Soon shalt thou behold the Sun of eternity shining forth from the horizon of glory with a sovereignty supreme over all truth.  BH11817

They have perpetrated in this land that which hath violated God's sanctity among His servants. To this beareth witness every pebble of the city, every stone and clod and wall.   BH03370

The oppressor of the great city hath dealt a mighty blow to the liver of truth. That unjust one arose in tyranny and committed that which is the cause of the most great sorrow.  BH09688

"Hearken unto the call of this Prisoner, Who hath been encompassed by wolves from every direction, after He came unto them with an authority that verily encompassed all things."  BH02481

A telegram came from Constantinople from 'Adu'l-Hamid...I am thankful, for God never created for me any humiliation. He has never created it. Therefore no one can humiliate me.   ABU0304

the tribulations inflicted by the wrongdoing polytheistic souls have intervened and prevented the servants and loved ones from remembrance and praise and nearness and attainment   BH04109

Have ye denied your Lord, the All-Merciful, after He came in the shadows of proof with manifest sovereignty? Whither do ye flee this Day? By My life, ye have no place of refuge.   BH04080

And if these polytheists object to thee...When they turned away, We turned against them to spite them and spite those who waxed proud before God and were among the opposing ones.  BH01726

They have cast behind them that which is with God, clinging to that which they possess. Verily, they are accounted among the most lost in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH00663

Consider the Shi'ih sect! Now all their divines mount the pulpits to curse the Desire of the worlds. What hath been the cause of this wrong and the reason for this heedlessness?   BH00982

In that land some make a show of acceptance and belief, but falsely, that they might find their way to the friends and plant in their hearts whatsoever they conceal in their own.  BH04611

But the base ones lie in wait for them, even as fierce wolves attack the sheep, and thus they are unable to manifest their heartfelt sentiments and their hospitality to strangers  AB12439

This is apart from the momentous affairs and great occupations and resistance against enemies in all parts of the earth and constant engagement in internal and external matters.   AB06839

There is no greater bounty in this Day than such faithfulness, such steadfastness for how otherwise one can withstand the onslaught of the world, the persecution of the nations?   AB04728

though armies of the worthless, the base, and the forsaken appear each day from some direction, yet in the end they shall be destroyed and perish like the sorcerer Asad Qashqa'i   AB03166

When it reached the Son of the Wolf, the Ascension [of Baha'u'llah] had taken place. Once again He emphasized, The blessed expositions infuse the stone, but had no effect on him.  ABU3661

It is understood that you have gone to Shishvan, and the prolonged nature of this journey has been to avoid the corruption of the oppressors and the aggression of the tyrannical.  AB03374

The friends in Yazd are truly special servants of the Truth and near ones of the divine court, for they endured severe hardships in the path of God and suffered many tribulations  AB03630

O Lord! Thou beholdest the oppressor seated upon the throne of tyranny, shedding the blood of Thy loved ones with such injustice that the Manifestations of justice have lamented.   BH02043

manifest tribulations and sorrows have encompassed the Truth - exalted be His glory... There hath befallen Him that which no pen in all the world can move to recount or enumerate   BH01806

they carried into captivity Thy kindred, and flung the Manifestation of Thy Self into prison, and immured Him Who is the Day-Spring of Thine Essence in the most desolate of cities  BH08827

"neither the ascendancy of the oppressor nor the suggestions of them that have disbelieved in Thy most august and most mighty Self shall be capable of keeping them back from Thee"  BH08433

Verily, they who have turned away are those who still suckle at the breast of ignorance though their time of maturity hath come, and the decree of infancy is pronounced upon them.  BH10666

That jewel of knowledge has today become clear and manifest. This is why all peoples have risen in opposition... and have not been troubled by the blame and attacks of the people   AB03988

They have taken some of 'Abdu'l-Baha's phrases, mixed them with corrupted statements, and distributed them, hoping by this means and this plot to bring dishonor upon this servant.  AB10381

Until now, no one has opposed the Cause of God except that they were afflicted with severe calamity. In those who have passed before from previous generations are examples for us.  AB02353

neither the opposition of the divines nor the objections of the theologians nor the derision of those who have disbelieved in Thy most exalted, most glorious Self could deter them   BH06579

Thou witnesseth, O my Best-Beloved, how Thy servants have risen against him, attributing to him what befitteth their own station and imputing to him what beseemeth their own selves  BH02878

All nations of the world are attacking and all earthly powers are assaulting with utmost might - all religious leaders, political trustees and military forces surround and dominate  AB00621

"When we arrived at the port of Naples in Italy, they thought we were Turks and intensified their mistreatment. Therefore, I told Shoghi Effendi, Mirza Munir and Kusraw to return."  ABU1539

they are tested believers of old who are enthralled, and who have sacrificed their blood in the path of the Incomparable Lord and endured a hundred thousand afflictions and trials   AB04731

When the fragrance of Revelation was wafted abroad and the breezes of God wafted forth at the dawn of His Promised Day, the people rose up in opposition, save those whom God willed.  BH03668

Verily the drop desired to prevent the ocean, and the atom sought to veil the sun with the clay of fancy and imagination. His power and the mustering of his forces have deluded him   BH08044

It is hoped that the friends will open eloquent tongues and make articulate utterances, and that the ugly people will also calm down somewhat and not rise up so much in opposition.   AB02609

Such souls are nothing but pure harm to The Cause of God, and it is very well that they go out, for the abominable deeds of such souls are like unto an axe at the root of The Cause.  AB11439

yet the frozen ones still remain afflicted with their own coldness like ice. Say: O frozen one! How long wilt thou remain frozen and follow the vain imaginings of the veiled souls?   AB06157

Thou seest, O my God, how the wrongs committed by such of Thy creatures as have turned their backs to Thee have come in between Him in Whom Thy Godhead is manifest and Thy servants.   BH10231

Beware lest the allusions of men cause you to slip or the words of the deniers hold you back. Leave them to themselves and place your trust in the One, the Subduer, the All-Knowing.   BH06737

Soon shall the call be raised in every city and thou shalt find the people fearful and trembling from the power of the Cause. Thus was the matter irrevocably decreed in the Tablets.   BH02707

The enemies of the Faith have surrounded the mighty and impregnable fortress. From every direction the idolaters have risen to extinguish the Muhammadan light and Ahmadic character.   BH01022

She seized their properties and shed their blood without any sin or evidence. Thus was the matter decreed concerning those through whom the horizon of divine knowledge was illumined.  BH08075

The Lord of all beings hath been afflicted in the land of Syria amidst the people of darkness by what the hands of those who turned away from the countenance of Beauty have wrought.   BH00802

They have suffered in Thy path what no man before them hath suffered. To this bear witness they who abide around Thy throne, and the dwellers of the earth, and the Concourse on high.  BH01693

From time immemorial unto this day, there has befallen the loved ones of God at the hands of the manifestations of oppression and tyranny that which the pen is powerless to recount.   BH05027

Many of the people of the East said and wrote about me, too, 'all agree that he excels in knowledge, learning, speech and explanation, but, alas! he is the propagator of a new law'.   ABU2598

Be not sad on account of poverty, nor be sorrowful when the people scorn thee. Remember the poverty of Jesus, the persecution of the Jews to His glorious person and the scorn of Him.  AB11307

For thirty years they were under the torture of the people of error. Every day they made their breasts the target of the arrow of cruelty. Every evening they saw the wound of a sword  AB12160

Therefore, it weighs heavily upon the turbaned ones, and they are driven to fury by intense jealousy. The friends should not cry out in dismay at this fury. This is a natural matter.  AB10727

Darkness hath enveloped all regions and calamity hath encompassed all quarters. Thou seest and hearest, O my God, what Thine enemies do and what they speak concerning Thy chosen ones   BH09405

they rose up against Him with such tyranny as caused them who are nigh unto God to lament in their most exalted station. They recite the Qur'an, yet deny Him Who revealed it in truth   BH04928

Know thou that they who opposed God prevented thee from that which thou didst desire in His path, and this was an injustice from their own selves against the Self of the All-Merciful   BH01940

This land is in great turmoil, and this Wronged One is afflicted between two parties. Consider what hath befallen and continueth to befall the seventy souls in the Most Great Prison.   BH01883

This land continues to be in turmoil, as was previously detailed in the Tablets. The manifestation of turmoil is in these days, therefore permission was not granted on this occasion.   BH00873

Turn not unto those who opposed God and turned away from His beauty. Leave them to their vain desires and take what thou hast been given from thy Lord, the Lord of the mighty throne.   BH02865

The text mentions various forms of opposition faced: "the clamor of the divines, nor the might of names, nor the hosts of princes" and refers to being "among the hands of the wicked."  BH02146

They attacked like the Jews and assaulted like the spiteful bear, they struck like the spotted viper and ravaged God's loved ones like the fierce wolf in the dusty northern mountains   AB00396

You know well that I have to bear the brunt of all criticisms and to be ready to escape the pitfalls that the Mahomedan, the Christians, and the Jews are constantly digging before me.  ABU2517

How evil these Iranians are! They still have not calmed down. Despite all these afflictions and calamities that have befallen them, they are still engaged in their original wickedness  ABU0544

You offered your neck to chains in the path of God and committed your feet to heavy fetters. You cast your body into prison and subjected your soul to a hundred thousand afflictions.   AB05793

They cast aside the All-Knowing and took hold of vain imaginings - verily they are a people who deny. They turned away from the ocean and approached the pond - they do not understand.   BH01000

The opponents have been and are those souls who, in the name of truth and in the garb of learning, have debarred and continue to debar people from the living waters of the All-Merciful  BH05376

The recompense for these deeds became manifest on the Day of Reckoning, even as on the Day of Judgment they all assailed the Lord of Names with swords of rejection and spears of hatred  BH02130

I have borne in the path of God what no one in all the worlds hath borne. Were I to recount what I have witnessed for the sake of God, every fair-minded and discerning one would weep.   BH08911

This is a land where the Call of God has been raised over its land and sea, its mountains and hills. Thus have the breezes of grace wafted, yet the people remain behind a manifest veil.  BH06728

Should the evil whisperer come unto you with the scroll of the wicked, leave it behind you and speak forth that whereby the luminary of proof shineth resplendent throughout all creation  BH08396

O Hussein! Were My Most Exalted Pen to recount unto thee that which befell Him in the prison of Akka, thou wouldst lament as one bereft and weep as those who have lost their loved ones.  BH03705

And strange it is that they have not only deprived themselves of God's infinite grace, but worse - they wish to prevent the souls thirsting for the Salsabil of grace from attaining it.   AB04874

there are a hundred thousand different sects in the world, each with a sword in hand and a snare in grasp, and these grateful birds are beneath that sharp blade and caught in this trap.  AB08038

These attacks become the cause of the appearance of clear signs, and this oppression lays the groundwork and becomes the cause of awakening the heedless and the seeking of the seekers.   AB00454

Yet most of the people remain behind a manifest veil. They behold the Most Exalted Horizon yet deny it, and they hear what hath been sent down from the Mother Book yet turn away from it.  BH02560

We commanded trustworthiness, yet they clung to treachery; We enjoined equity, yet they embraced tyranny. Through what they possess they remain heedless and veiled from what is with God.  BH00087

Draw My handmaidens to the remembrance of Me and My Name, lest they be influenced by the croaking of them that have disbelieved and the braying of them that have joined partners with God   BH05305

Thou seest, O my God, how tribulation and adversity have encompassed Thy dwellings and Thy lands... O my God, Thou seest how the idolaters have encompassed those who believe in Thy unity   BH01247

Thus hath the Pen spoken, and the Ancient of Days hath borne witness thereunto, when He was imprisoned in the Most Great Prison by reason of what the hands of the oppressors had wrought.   BH04840

The servants have risen against them without any proof or Book. They have seized them and imprisoned them and committed that which hath caused the earth to tremble and the clouds to wail.  BH09622

It is incumbent, nay obligatory, upon that honored one and the other friends to protect the weak servants from the claws of his hatred, lest they be afflicted as were the previous party.   BH01667

Great is the multitude who will rise up to oppose you, who will oppress you, heap blame upon you, rejoice at your misfortunes, account you people to be shunned, and visit injury upon you.  AB02506

this oppression, transgression, hatred and enmity came from the traditional clergy and was carried out by foolish people...the occurrence of persecution, killing, plundering and bloodshed  AB11690

But the people of doubt increased day by day in their skepticism regarding the circumstances of the Manifestation and the Unseen, until they reached the station of "deaf, dumb and blind."  AB08436

The people of Iran are malicious... Iran is not at ease, and her people are prejudiced. They have inflicted several damaging blows to the body of God's Faith and have slowed its progress.  ABU0858

Hadi Dawlatabadi, despite his lack of knowledge about the essence of the Cause, hath striven and continueth to strive to lead the people astray. Say: Perdition betide thee, O heedless one!  BH04055

O Ali! Blessed art thou and thy father who bore tribulations in God's path and heard the derision of enemies, the turning away of the wretched, and the objections of those who disbelieved   BH00792

Here both internal and external enemies lie in wait and are extremely antagonistic. Especially Professor Browne who is extremely antagonistic, seeking to incite both government and nation.  AB01641

Through the tyranny of heedless hosts, there befell the gems of existence that which caused the Lote-Tree of the utmost boundary to weep and raised the lamentation of the Supreme Paradise.   BH01195

the cawing of the crows, the clamor of the transgressors and the might of the polytheists may not prevent or deprive thee from the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of true divine unity   BH04696

The Pen moveth and the tongue of the Lord of Eternity speaketh in this hour wherein the hosts of those who believed not in God have encompassed Him and were engaged in manifest oppression.   BH01573

The party that hath truly been and continues to be an obstacle to this most great bounty and this most great favor is the Shi'ih party. Their beliefs and vain imaginings have deluded them.   BH00771

Among the people are those who were stirred and turned to God, the Lord of the worlds, and among them are those who clung to what they possessed, turning away from the One, the All-Informed  BH08322

O Lord! Thou seest those who have turned away and what their hands have wrought and their tongues have uttered. They have denied Thee and Thy signs and desired to lead Thy servants astray.   BH06199

there hath befallen them in the path of God that which hath caused the fruits upon the trees and the waves of the seas to lament...Soon shall the oppressor find himself in grievous torment.  BH07564

This servant who has been imprisoned several times, been seized, and finally become rejected by the servants and banished from lands, can no longer bear the transgression of the companions.   BH01936

Thou seest what hath befallen Thy loved ones at the hands of the oppressors among Thy creation, and Thou beholdest their helplessness in the grasp of the tyrannical ones among Thine enemies   BH07691

They have slain God's chosen ones and plundered their possessions and entered their homes with an injustice whereby all things have lamented and the eyes of the Concourse on High have wept.   BH00641

The utterances of the idolaters and those who have turned away...Yet despite this they have objected to this Wronged One, saying "Why was such a one killed, and such a one deprived of life?"  BH06836

You observe that in such a sorrowful state, again in the outskirts of Qum they martyred an oppressed soul with the bullet of tyranny. What hope remains from this people except hopelessness?   AB00947

"The clouds of the idle fancies of the ignorant have made dark and gloomy the world's luminous horizon; while the tyranny of the rulers hath rendered turbid the clear fount of tranquillity."   BH02595

and among them are those who have denied God's proof and His evidence and His greatness and His sovereignty and His might and His bounty. These are among the most lost in My perspicuous Book   BH04159

"Mine enemies have inflicted upon My loved ones such wrongs as have caused the Pen to lament and the Tablet to cry out before the face of God, the Sovereign of all the kingdoms of existence."  BH01269

Thou hast written that they have expelled thee from the church and thy friends are manifesting aversion toward thee. This is the beginning of thy trials. There are greater trials than these.   AB04071

No excuse remains for anyone, unless they speak from the promptings of idle fancy... save such souls as have been prevented from the Straight Path by the drunkenness of the wine of vainglory.   BH08381

being surrounded by the hosts of the wicked who, when We showed them the proof, said "This is a lying sorcerer," and when We sent down unto them the verses, said "These are but fabrications."   BH03513

Beware lest conjectures withhold you from the Dawning-Place of certitude, or the intimations of the opposers cause you to fear - they who have followed their desires and broken God's Covenant   BH03343

All people arose to oppose Him, yet this only increased the loss of the wrongdoers... Again the people of hypocrisy broke God's covenant and arose with all their might to extinguish the light   BH01686

The party of pride is occupied with means and intrigues, wandering confused in the wilderness of doubts. They imagine that through these calumnies they can create a breach in the Cause of God.  AB01416

All the friends of God in their own time became exposed before the world, but that exposure was not shame - it was eternal glory. That ill repute was not disgrace - it was everlasting triumph.  AB00792

that which will protect him from the evil of the deniers and the calumniators and the clamor of the liars... protect them from the evil of every traitor and every deceiver and every hateful one  BH10616

to have mercy, O my God, on those babes whom the people have banished from their homes while were still at their mothers' breasts, for no other reason than the love they have cherished for Thee  BH10829

Glorified be the people of Baha who have turned to God with faces radiant with light, whom the doubts of them that have disbelieved in God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, have not prevented.   BH06322

"therefore do people differ concerning the Cause of God and devils emerge from their places and cause corruption in God's Cause to the extent they are able, and they are among the corrupters."   BH04384

Say: Die in your wrath, O people of hatred! God has raised us to a station which your hands and your spirits can never reach. Return then to your abode in the fire, O company of the deceivers!   BH03675

Blessed is he who was not kept back from turning towards God by the opposition of the divines and rulers, and blessed is the steadfast one whom the winds of hatred and animosity did not disturb.  BH03635

It is clear and evident to all that this Wronged One and the party of God have desired for all bounty, blessing and wealth. Nevertheless, they show such enmity as hath had and hath no likeness.   BH02526

"the horizon of creation hath been darkened by what hath befallen Thy servant whose name beginneth with H at the hands of those who have denied Thy most beauteous names and Thy most great signs"  BH09163

The barking of dogs, and the grunting of swine, and the howling of wolves, and the mewing of cats, and the yelping of foxes, and the hissing of serpents - they who have denied God and His signs   BH08033

When their hearts were attracted by the wonders of Thy verses and they hastened to the Dayspring of Thy oneness, the oppressors prevented them from entering the City wherein Thy call was raised   BH05767

Behold those who have clung to idle fancies and imaginings and turned away from the Sun of Certitude when it shone forth from this praiseworthy horizon. They worship idols, yet perceive it not.   BH04275

There surely will be those who shall oppose and shall rise to condemn and censure thee. Thou must in no wise feel affected or hurt, but rather, should withstand with fixed resolve and constancy.  AB02247

They have denied it. The fragrances of revelation were diffused; they turned away from them. They are ablaze with the fire of hatred and strive to extinguish the light of the Lord of all things.   BH10461

Therefore I hope through the bounty and favor of the Lord that the condition of all may be pleasant and joy and gladness may appear, for the dominion of the calumniators has somewhat diminished.   AB11932

"despite sixty years of the Baha'i community enduring all kinds of persecution and cruelty, so much blood being shed, so much property being plundered and pillaged, so many homes being destroyed"  AB00607

Those who were nurtured in learning rose up against Him Whom God made the Dawning-Place of knowledge and the Dayspring of inspiration. They clung to the sciences, heedless of the One Who is known   BH07716

Yet the people of the earth, both high and low, learned and ignorant, have deprived themselves of the effulgent rays of the Sun of Divine Unity, save whom God hath willed, the Lord of all worlds.   BH05356

Thou seest Thy chosen servants in the hands of the wicked ones, and Thou knowest what hath befallen them at the hands of the oppressors among Thy creation and the transgressors among Thy creatures  BH08241

Say: The deeds of those who have fabricated lies against the remembrance of thy Lord's name in their book before witnesses from among the people are rendered vain, for they were an ignorant folk.   BB00529

"Speaking to Abdul Baha of some opposition to the Cause, He replied thus: The time is coming when great philosophers will stand in opposition to the Cause, but all of this will at last pass away."  ABU2774

One would open their tongue in insult, another would cry out "O woe unto you!", another would say "Woe unto you, then woe unto you!", and another would utter "You follow none but a bewitched man."  AB00831

These servants of Thine have been struck with hardship and adversity and have fallen under the claws of the wicked. Every sinful liar and base aggressor has made them the target of painful arrows.  AB00931

The clamor of the opposers hath been raised, and the machinations of the plotters have become manifest, and the fire of the mischief-makers hath become evident and apparent from beneath the ashes.   BH08571

When the polytheists saw God's power and sovereignty, they said "This is but a lying sorcerer." Such were their words before - We have left them as a reminder for those possessed of understanding.   BH02289

Remember thy Lord throughout all days and be not heedless of Him, for verily He shall suffice thee against those who have disbelieved and who have joined partners with God, the Mighty, the Beloved.  BH11775

after having been imprisoned in the most ruinous of Thy lands and held captive by the hands of the idolaters among Thy creatures. Yet despite the trials that have encompassed me from all directions  BH05073

Out of intense hatred and malice, through evil whisperings and satanic insinuations and polytheistic slanders, they sought to conceal that radiant Light and brilliant Ray from all eyes and hearts.   AB02007

All these seditions and corruptions are caused by those who wish ill toward the government and nation... Do not expect virtuous character from the wicked, nor seek faithfulness from the oppressors.  AB00822

due to the multitude of occupations and troubles, the onslaught of important matters, the abundance of corruption and sedition from people of vain desires, and the emergence of endless difficulties  AB01869

The grief of this Wronged One hath not been from the oppression of oppressors, for whenever and at all times oppression against the Tree of the Cause occurred, it became the cause of its exaltation   BH03152

Now although these honored graves and sacred tombs have been subjected to degradation, this is the foundation of supreme glory and the source of greatest exaltation - this will become evident later.  AB01795

If he was inimical toward us we did not oppose him [at] all. When, however, I observed that he is entirely misrepresenting the Cause by [sharing] foul calumnies in the Egyptian Press I wrote to him   ABU2149

Yet the bats, with the utmost effort and haste, struggle and strive to find some dark hole wherein they might make their dwelling and abode, that perchance their sightless eyes might find some rest.  AB07959

In these days when the clamor of the polytheists has risen from most directions and the idolatrous souls are, with the utmost diligence and effort, engaged in extinguishing the light of divine unity   BH04710

By Thy might, O my Beloved! The matter hath reached such a pass that they have denied Thy power and made a mockery of the Manifestations of Thy Revelation and the Dawning-Places of Thine inspiration.  BH03030

"The Consul General to Persia arrested them, saying, 'You are on your way to Akka. It is forbidden for you to go to Akka. Whosoever goes to Akka, must be killed. So I must turn you back to Persia.'"   ABU0337

We have been repeatedly exiled and banished from cities. You too must inevitably have a drop from this cup and receive a share of this greatest bounty, for you are deserving of this bounty and favor.  AB02104

When the rays of light had encompassed the horizons of all lands, a band of wolves emerged from behind the veil and desired to shed My blood without any proof from God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH07130

Thou shalt find the infidels fleeing from this Youth as mules flee from the lions of eternity, and they shall turn upon their heels, and shall violate the Covenant of God after It hath been revealed.   BH02323

"Thou shalt find the infidels fleeing from this Youth as mules flee from the lions of eternity, and they shall turn upon their heels, and shall violate the Covenant of God after It hath been revealed"  BH02265

Thou seest how the wayward have encompassed Thy chosen ones from among Thy pure ones and have risen against them with an oppression at which the dwellers of Thy kingdom and Thy dominion have lamented   BH08259

servants who broke God's Covenant and Testament, disputed His verses, denied His proof, and rejected His testimony that encompasseth all who are in the heavens and on earth, have clung to such fancies  BH02474

The sweet fragrances of holiness have not been diffused from the gardens of the Most Glorious Kingdom such that the dung beetles from the refuse heaps of ignorance could cause confusion in the Cause.   AB06352

as there is resistance and some ministers are opposing the Cause. It has been established by experience that when the cry of opposition is raised by leaders of religion the Cause of God gains strength  ABU1990

Yet when the brilliant Luminary did shine forth, all became blind and sightless, and were deprived of beholding the light of their Lord. Now ye are the successful ones while the leaders are deprived.   AB05150

In the early years all the divines of Persia engaged in cursing the Goal of all creation. They committed that which no group had ever committed and perpetrated that which no soul had ever perpetrated.   BH02621

"hear His lamentation and cry concerning what hath befallen Him from the hosts of Satan...what hath befallen the Ancient Beauty from those who openly denied the signs of God and wronged and oppressed"   BH11199

Oppression has reached a stage where the tongue is powerless to describe it, and beyond it is every numberer, all-knowing. They have kindled a fire whose flames shall not be extinguished in the world.   BH01367

There hath befallen thee what befell those who drew nigh unto God from those who denied God's proof and testimony and disputed His verses which have encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH01995

His honor Khan arrived in the Holy Land and became informed of the great corruption of the people of hatred. Therefore, be patient for a while until the obstacle is removed and difficulty becomes ease.  AB05267

"the hands of oppression from the sinful people are stretched forth to harm Thy sincere servants, and that the swords of tyranny from the rebellious ones are drawn against the necks of the unitarians"   AB02182

For this reason, this divine Lote-Tree and manifest yet hidden mystery has endured from both friends and foes that which no pen or ink can recount, as thou hast been informed of some of these matters.   BH00677

"This is due to the abundance of sorrows and endless troubles, and the onslaught of the oppressors and the harm and injury of the unfaithful ones who give no opportunity for even a word to be written."  AB07317

When We observed carefully, We discovered that Our enemies are, for the most part, the divines...Yet when the horizon of Manifestation shone forth and the Known One came, the divines denied Him at first  BH01742

The tale of falsehood hath been renewed. The people of rancor and hatred have arisen against the friends of God and have striven, and continue to strive, with utmost diligence to lead the people astray.  BH08169

as in these days certain souls have arisen in utmost opposition, shouldst thou come, it would only bring thee the greatest sorrow, and thy present grief and suffering would be multiplied a thousandfold.  AB02369

The oppressors have committed that which has caused the dwellers of Paradise to lament. They have followed their own desires and cast their God behind their backs. Lo! They are among the perishing ones.   BH02576

Among them were those who hesitated, and those who turned away, and those who pronounced sentence of death against Thee... by the breasts that were pierced by the arrows of the enemies to exalt Thy Word   BH03281

All these corruptions originated from Sadru'l-Bulaha. He was the root of corruption and sedition, who had no rest day or night and strove to render every friend friendless and every companion despondent.  AB08327

Ye were banished and removed from your native land on account of the rebellion of the unjust, and for the sake of God ye have been made homeless by reason of the aggression of the proud and vainglorious.  AB04650

The Shah of Persia and the Sultan of Turkey threw us into prison. They killed twenty thousand of us hoping that this Cause would be annihilated and that these teachings of Baha'u'llah would be forgotten.  ABU1617

Thus have We recounted unto thee what hath befallen Us from those who have cast the Command of God behind their backs and have chosen for themselves that which leadeth them astray from the straight path.   BH03437

It was later understood that these delays were due to certain wisdom, as these regions have not been free from disturbances owing to the rebellion and transgression of those who have risen against Islam.   BH00209

Thou seest the enemies attacking Thy loved ones from every direction, the ravening wolves assailing Thy chosen ones, and the fierce beasts of prey devouring the oppressed among the people of faithfulness.  AB12173

"And the torrent inevitably produces foam - meaning in the days of the Holy Manifestations, in every dispensation doubts must needs arise like foam, and intrigues and evil whisperings must needs appear."   ABU1605

It is difficult for such souls to become intimate friends, for they flee from the company of the true Joseph and cling to a few pieces of silver. They are wolves, not shepherds; demons, not human beings.   AB03924

Yet when the divine Morn arose from the horizon of the world and the Most Great Luminary unveiled its countenance, all were found to be perturbed, wavering, turning away and denying - save for a few souls   BH08166

If there be delay in the sending of Tablets, it hath been and is due to the tyranny of the oppressors and the upheavals in this land, as well as the multitude of petitions that arrive from all directions.   BH00601

Yet when He Who was mentioned appeared and the Promised One came, the people arose in opposition, in such wise that the dwellers of the most exalted Paradise and the inmates of the highest Heaven lamented.  BH01567

Thou beholdest, O my God, how bewildered in their drunkenness are Thy servants who have turned back from Thy beauty and caviled at what hath been sent down from the right hand of the throne of Thy majesty.  BH04311

It behooveth not them that are endued with justice to engage in contention with the loved ones of God and the seekers of the divine sanctuary who, for the love of God, have quaffed the cup of tribulation.   BH07540

Consider! The pharisees called the glorious and smiling Christ Baalzabook; that is the head of the devils. These people are in absolute ignorance and blame or rebuke is their very praise and commendation.   AB04451

In one of the cities between Canada and California, a certain cardinal -- one of the most eminent leaders of Christendom -- denounced us as the enemies of Christ, and forbade the people from meeting with us.  ABU3671

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that a few foxes have crept into their dens of envy, and some jackals raise their howls and cries in the extremity of their rage. Be thou a mighty lion and a courageous tiger.  AB07604

My loved ones have been imprisoned in the land of Ta by reason of what the hands of the oppressors have wrought, they who have cast the Book of God behind their backs and followed every ignorant remote one.  BH07073

Thou seest, O God of Names and Creator of all things, Thy loved ones in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures who have cast behind them Thy Book and taken the book of their own selves in Thy days   BH09318

Those souls who speak for the sake of God and are turned toward Him have been cast into prison due to unwarranted and unproven suspicions, thinking they could extinguish the light of God and quench His fire.  BH02644

the croakers and birds of night and the book of Sijjin and leaves of fire which were mentioned in divine Tablets from Iraq and the Land of Mystery and Akka have appeared and continue to appear in all places   BH06910

The manifestations of tyranny, hatred and wickedness have ever existed in the world, and in all ages they have striven with utmost effort to extinguish the light. But God has banished them through His power   BH09551

The cawing has been raised throughout all regions - this is what We forewarned you of beforehand when the Light was shining from the horizon of Iraq, and in the Land of Mystery, and in this mighty fortress.   BH03119

Him Who speaketh therein, manifest and evident, Whom neither the politics of the world nor the oppression of nations hath deterred, nor have all the peoples of the earth prevented Him from raising His call.   BH00785

Whatever befell them, they did not protest and remained focused on the Luminary of God's Cause which has dawned from the horizon of the Mother Book... the wicked ones in Iran have not ceased their oppression.  BH02921

Thou seest the warriors under the grasp of the transgressors and the unitarians between the fangs of the idolaters... O Lord! Thou seest Thy party among the parties and beneath the claws of a pack of wolves.   BH00989

Observe that after arriving in America this enclosed treatise has been published. You must be awake, not asleep. Take measures regarding this person so that he does not cause severe harm to the Cause of God.   AB05331

for at a time when waves of trials have reached the heavens and oppressors from every direction have unleashed arrows and swords, the Sacred Edifice is troubled and hearts are aflame and souls are attracted.   AB03217

In the past year enemies and ill-wishers of this Wronged One rose up with the utmost corruption and cast every slander and calumny upon this wanderer and prepared petitions which they sent to high officials.   ABU2467

The wolf howleth on My right and on My left, the squealing of swine hath been raised. Calamities have encompassed Me from all directions. Despite all this, I stand before all faces and speak as We spoke before  BH02715

These oppressors do not leave a moment's peace and do not give an instant's opportunity. They themselves strike the axe at the foundation of righteousness and also prevent others from benevolence and service.   AB04037

Although thy wealth is plundered and thy home is pillaged thine enemies too, the Gog and Magog of destruction, have also been dispersed and scattered. They have been injured and slain, humiliated and degraded.  AB02564

they are lying in wait and Iranians and others, both minor and major, are informed of affairs. They approach in the guise of friendship to create mischief...enemies lie in ambush and calumnies are beyond count  AB02969

The breezes of opposition from those who walk upon the shifting sands of heedlessness and negligence have wafted over the meadows of thy bountiful Lord, that what was recorded in the Tablets might be fulfilled.  BH08362

...the vain imaginings of malicious souls shall not prevent thee from the court of divine unity, for such souls have existed and will continue to exist in every place - at times concealed and at times manifest.  BH07831

This is what We foretold you when Zawra was the seat of the throne of your Lord, the All-Merciful, and in the Land of Mystery and in this spot which God hath made the point of circumambulation of the righteous.  BH02642

Now weakness has reached such a point that opponents have attacked from all sides. Each day some harm arrives and some tribulation appears. They have denied this bounty and imagined this justice to be tyranny.   BH01668

I testify that thou didst turn unto Him when every heedless and veiled one turned away... Thou art he whom neither the hosts of princes frightened, nor the doubts of divines, nor the gestures of jurisprudents.   BH00888

O ye beloved of God, be not grieved or saddened by the opposition of the people of the world, the blindness of sightless eyes, the objections of the people of passion, or the hostility of the people of hatred.   AB06519

Regarding Yazd, you had written that praise be to God, in those regions there is generally security, comfort and ease, and the Rawdih-khwans have been silenced and make no protests in mosques and from pulpits.   AB11648

Yet the enemies lie in wait for them and wish to scatter their assembly throughout the land, and have risen in opposition until the fire of love subsides and the lamp of Thy knowledge is extinguished in hearts   AB00979

"Behold then what the wrongdoers have done to My shirt and My garments in the Land of Sad. By God! All things have wailed, every eye hath shed tears, and every person of insight and discernment hath cried out."   BH01842

Tribulation and adversity have encompassed Me, and there hath befallen Me at the hands of the calumniators that which hath caused the tribes of earth and heaven to lament, and every knowing and perceiving soul.   BH00361

When God's touchstone appeared and the Word of God was made manifest, they were found to be more veiled than all other peoples. They occupied themselves with worthless and unprofitable words in opposition to God  BH08103

The [Iranian] authorities thought that once they exiled the Blessed Beauty, the matter would be concluded and [the Faith] would be eradicated and erased, without any trace, and this Light would be extinguished.   ABU1748

Whenever the Daysprings of God's Cause would shine forth from the horizon of His Will, the people would arise in rejection and denial, and would strive day and night to extinguish the light of His manifestation.   BH01858

Although in these days the heedless servants have, like clouds and veils, concealed the light of the Cause, ere long the finger of divine will shall rend asunder the veil and the light shall encompass the world.   BH05634

Though the people of hatred lie in ambush, yet the friends are in perfect peace and composure. Though they shoot the arrow of tyranny, praise be to God the faithful friends stand firm and offer the cup of bounty.  AB03716

We make mention of you at a time when sorrows have encompassed Us through that which the hands of the deniers of this blessed and manifest Light have wrought. They have imprisoned My Name and seized My loved ones   BH07170

Behold this Prisoner as a target, at whom arrows fly continuously and successively from all directions. Yet through divine grace He hath thus far remained protected, and afterwards the matter resteth in His hands.  BH00751

Yet the opposers of the Cause have shut their eyes and remained deprived of all things. Would that they might understand what they have forsaken and to what they have cleaved! Leave them to their vain imaginings.   BH06840

How very unjust the people are! From the day of the appearance of his holiness, Christ, until now he has not been mentioned in the synagogues of the Jews. Notwithstanding this, the people are not pleased with us.   ABU1177

Throughout Iran, traitors to the government and ignorant rabble-rousers among the people incite the base elements to cut the divine friends - the faithful and obedient subjects - into pieces and set them on fire.   AB00729

We desired their life and preservation and a station whose mention transcendeth every pen and tongue, yet they pronounced judgment against Us with such tyranny as hath caused the denizens of the Kingdom to cry out   BH02160

This is a remembrance from the Wronged One, Who is encompassed by sorrows from all directions through that which the hands of those who are heedless of the remembrance of God, the Lord of all worlds, have wrought.   BH03593

"The leaves of the Lote-Tree have yellowed from the blasts of rejection's winds, yet ye hasten in the wilderness of error. The pillars of justice have shaken from your oppression, yet ye slumber behind your veils."  BH00875

And if thou wert to look with the eye of thy Lord, thou wouldst surely behold those who have denied God in these days in the form of dogs and swine. Shun these people, then hold fast to the protection of thy Lord.   BH02369

Beware lest the doubts of the divines hold thee back, or the might of princes frighten thee. Cast aside vain imaginings beneath thy feet, turning to the horizon from which has shone forth the Day-Star of certitude   BH06150

Nevertheless, there hath been visited upon them that which hath not been visited upon murderers, thieves, traitors and liars. These earthly temples have desired to extinguish the divine light and quench its flame.   BH03800

Some, upon hearing the call, turned immediately to the most exalted horizon, sanctified from all that is unworthy of God's days, while others remained afflicted with the chains of idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH01930

The corrupt ones turned the Caucasus into an abode of sedition. There was neither coming nor going, no courier in transit. With all the calamities that had befallen, this situation was added - and how it continues!  AB11849

They have been afflicted by the ignorant ones. Thy gazelles in the wilderness of unity and faithfulness have fallen under the fangs of dogs and wolves, and Thy sheep have been caught in the claws of hungry beasts.   AB01941

Haji Muhammad Karim Khan of Kirman wrote a book of refutation every year, as did other ignorant ones known as learned. And the author of Nasikhu't-Tawarikh wrote concerning the Bab what no atheist hath ever written.  BH00082

People will not leave you alone. They will insult you for my sake. You will be blamed. How many trials you will bear. Even your relations and near ones will desert you - will shun you. All these are for love of me.   ABU0698

If ye deny what hath appeared from the Dayspring of this Countenance, by what proof can ye establish your faith in the Manifestations of the Cause who appeared from the horizon of holiness with manifest sovereignty?   BH02471

Today steadfastness is beloved. They have taken the Cause of God as children's play. Again green and white turbans have appeared, and like the former sect they are occupied in constructing houses of vain imaginings.   BH00541

O my God! Thou seest the Afnans of Thy Lote-Tree amidst the enemies of Thy Self and the wolves of Thy earth, who desire naught in the kingdom but to extinguish the light of Thy Cause and quench the fire of Thy love.   BH00309

In these days this Wronged One hath been afflicted between the fangs of the serpent and the fire of greed and avarice of those who claim to love. In the great city there occurred that which caused the Pen to lament.   BH05964

This person harbors religious hatred and has turned everyone against you, for he imagines that if you are dismissed from this position, he will gain influence and cause others to waver and promote the Azali religion.  AB10434

We have come for the reformation of the world, yet the peoples have risen in opposition in such wise that they have shed blood and plundered what belonged to My loved ones without any clear proof or perspicuous Book.   BH05048

From every direction have tribulations and hardships encompassed the people of unity. Weakness is seen where there should be strength, abasement where there should be glory, and impotence where there should be power.   BH00381

These blood clots and embryos who hypocritically claim to follow the Ja'fari school and count themselves among the most zealous Shi'ites, while secretly murmuring as the Babi party and claiming superiority over others  AB00900

The strong gales of adversity caused by the enemies of the Faith have assaulted the torches of God's love from all sides, yet the birds of the hearts of the sincere ones are now soaring into the heights of His bounty.  AB08126

Know thou that We had previously sent down verses unto thee and dispatched them to thee, but they who were heedless intervened between thee and them, and committed that which they were forbidden in a preserved Tablet.   BH03147

who wast with Me in prison in days when the fire of hatred blazed in the hearts of the idolaters who rejected the truth with their own inventions, violated His covenant and testament, disbelieved in His signs and proof  BH02678

Soon shall the people of tyranny and rebellion confess their own loss and your gain. Were they to become aware even to the extent of a needle's eye, all would cry out "I turn unto Thee, O Thou the Desire of the world!"  BH02500

this Wronged One Who hath been slain by the sword of hatred and cast by the idolators into this pit...for the idolators have gathered there and whisper unto men at all times that which Satan hath cast into their hearts  BH04968

Among the people are those who have turned to the cawing of the crow, turning away from that which the All-Merciful has revealed in the Book. O people! Fear God and do not oppose Him through Whom the proof has appeared  BH08974

They have imprisoned and plundered and taken captive the friends of God with an injustice at which the rock hath cried out, the Divine Lote-Tree hath called aloud, and the Faithful Spirit hath struck his face in grief.   BH08078

the deniers and the opposers have firmly girded the loins of ignorance to lead the people astray. Soon will there arrive in that place those who croak, who have surpassed Satan himself in turning away and in opposition   BH07388

Would ye slay him who calleth you unto everlasting life? Would ye deal unjustly with him who desireth justice amongst you? Would ye drive out him who hath come only to draw you nigh unto God, the Sovereign of all names?  BH11836

You were not disturbed by the clamor, tumult and uproar of the people of hatred. This is among those things that are inseparably linked - surely the love-smitten lovers must become captives to the cruelty of oppressors   AB03238

Although the people of Qum now mock and ridicule you, in the end they themselves shall become objects of ridicule, while the friends of God shall attain eternal glory. And though they surrounded the house and stoned it   AB12149

"those who speak according to their desires and claim what God hath not permitted them in His guarded Book. They are those who profess faith in God in the morning, yet in the evening deny the Lord of the seen and unseen"  BH03417

neither the hosts of the world nor the opposition of the nations frightened them... whom neither the swords of the world deterred from the Most Great Name, nor the oppression of the divines from the Straight Path of God   BH04305

It beseemeth each one of the friends of the Ancient Beauty to withstand the assault of the multitudes like unto a mighty rampart and like an impregnable fortress, face the animosity and the attacks of the armies of hate.  AB08666

Through dust ye have been withheld from the Lord of Lords, and through clay ye have been heedless of the Lord of the Day of Judgment. Say: The dust is your own selves and the clay your vain imaginings, did ye but know it.  BH00016

With all these divine affairs and occupations with the manifestations of the Lord of Oneness, how can there be time to give news of the ancient friends who are outcasts in different lands and rejected among the servants?   BH04651

The deniers say that the people of Baha kill people. Say: No, by God! By whose command was the Dayyan martyred, and who removed Abu'l-Qasim from the world? If you were to count their evil deeds, you could not number them.  BH10115

The successive calamities befalling the people of Yazd, especially that oppressive, ignorant group, are not surprising, for those unjust ones committed such tyranny that this much retribution for their deeds is warranted.  AB00522

And if they hear taunts, insults and curses, let them overlook them for the sake of improving the people. It does not matter - it has always been thus: "Whenever their people passed by them, they made a mockery of them."   AB01176

Formerly the Cause was progressing in India at a great speed, but one or two persons became the cause of a temporary set-back. then all of a sudden someone with malicious intent comes around and extinguishes these lights   ABU2044

In like manner, the country house and mansion of Baha'u'llah in Mazindaran were seized and destroyed by the oppressors. Yet, His Mansion in the Kingdom was adorned and beautified and an everlasting edifice was raised up.   AB04701

They became homeless and afflicted and distressed. At every moment they drank the cup of tribulation from the hand of destiny's cupbearer, and at every breath they were struck by the arrows of cruelty from their enemies.   AB02403

Now that some measure of assurance hath appeared, the opponents, that is, those who have turned away from the Cause, have arisen in greater hostility than the former peoples and are occupied with the same vain imaginings.   BH00293

Though the dark cloud of oppression hath prevented the Sun of Justice from shedding its radiance, yet the divine power prevaileth over all and standeth above all. Be not grieved by the fire of the souls of the polytheists.  BH01958

The Shi'ih sect arose in opposition. Thou hast heard and witnessed the deeds of that heedless party. Now Hadi of Dawlat-Abad hath raised the standard of falsehood and is occupied with forming a party like the previous one.  BH02845

Despite all this, the [loathsome] bats strive with all their being to obscure the effulgence of this Sun and the foul-smelling beetles labour to obliterate the sacred fragrances of the meadows of the All Glorious Kingdom.   AB02543

In nights and days they were occupied with the remembrance of Truth, but when He appeared from the horizon of creation, all became engaged in rejection and protest, save those souls whom the hand of God's power did protect   BH06915

Beware lest ye be frightened by the might of the divines through whose command the rulers have risen against you and perpetrated that which hath caused the Spirit to lament in the luminous Spot and the near ones to cry out.  BH05068

The people of error, He saith, have become a barrier between God and His creatures. The transgressions of the aggressors and the oppression of the tyrannical have held back the servants from the Lord of the Day of Judgment.  BH08271

How excellent are the tribulations that have befallen the Wronged One in the path of God, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting. In truth, tribulation in the path of the Peerless Beloved has been and ever will be beloved.  BH01511

The wolves have encompassed the beloved ones. By reason of this hath the Spirit lamented in His exalted station. The fire of tyranny hath been kindled to such degree that the tongues of all pens are powerless to recount it.  BH03767

The ranks have been formed, swords have been drawn, and thousands have attacked these oppressed ones in every region like predatory wolves and fierce beasts with hostile claws - tearing flesh, breaking bones, shedding blood   AB01219

when the Day came and the Cause was made manifest, the divines rose up in opposition, whereat the denizens of the realm of might cried out and every Messenger who came with the truth from God, the Lord of existence, lamented   BH08531

The Jalalu?d-Dawlih has done what has caused the eyes of the denizens of the Supreme Concourse to shed tears of blood. Having despaired of such subversive imaginings, he has now arisen against the friends and harms them thus.  BHU0066

"Grieve not, O House of God, if the veil of thy sanctity be rent asunder by the infidels. God hath, in the world of creation, adorned thee with the jewel of His remembrance. Such an ornament no man can, at any time, profane."  BH01536

In these days the pretenders lie in ambush and the oppressive divines are full of rancor and rage. One must move with the utmost wisdom, for they are seeking pretexts and thinking of harassment in every quarter and dwelling.   AB02277

in every age and era when those Suns of the horizons of inner meanings rose and appeared by God's command, most people arose in denial and attempted to cut down the divine Trees and Lotuses. This has been His way in past ages.  BH03914

Say: O company of oppressors! Ye have wrought that which has caused the Concourse on High to wail, the denizens of Paradise to lament, and the sighs of the Supreme Paradise and the tears of the angels and the Spirit to descend  BH01742

Verily the wolf hath seized My sheep, the oppressor hath slain My she-camel, and the serpent hath swallowed its prey. Thus was the matter decreed and thus did all things proclaim that which caused the mountains to take flight.  BH01395

And thou hast written that we are consuming our hearts' blood and imagining that we have found ease by forcefully reinterpreting religion... From the fragrance of thy words naught can be perceived save rejection and objection.  BH00004

However, during [Tolstoy's] journey to Istanbul, Aqa Khan and Shaykh Ahmad caused him to change his mind. These two related so many lies, falsehoods and accusations that he changed his mind and lost all interest in the Faith.   ABU0824

In fact, even members of the Commission of Inquiry, who every hour ordered a more severe persecution and spread a fresh calumny and who had joined our enemies and adversaries at 'Akka with the aim of destroying and effacing us  ABU2432

The light shining from the horizon of the heaven of My bounty be upon thee and upon My loved ones and friends who were not held back by the derision of the polytheists, the doubts of the opponents, and the cawing of the ravens.  BH04441

Whatever action the ministers of the Sultan took against Us, after having become acquainted with its contents, cannot be regarded as unjustifiable. The acts they committed before its perusal, however, can have no justification.  BHU0054

There hath befallen Him in the Cause of God that which hath befallen no one else, as attested by honored servants. Say: I have been imprisoned four times, culminating in this imprisonment, as ye have heard and continue to hear.  BH02637

Say: O thou concourse of disbelievers! Think ye that the Cause of God is degraded by My imprisonment, or can deflect its course owing to My abasement? Wretched is what ye hast imagined in your hearts and in all that ye thought.  BH04695

Despite this, the unfaithful ones desire to turn this light into darkness, this rose garden into ashes, this Most Glorious Paradise into a heap of dust, and this sacred cycle into the most corrupted of all cycles in the world.   AB04689

"Yet the one afflicted with a cold is deprived, the blind one remains in thick veils, and the deaf one in grievous torment... Every bat will flee from the life-bestowing sun and every dung beetle will shun the holy fragrances."  AB03106

But on the other hand, the deniers, who arose in opposition, became occupied in vain pursuits and, night and day, thought only of fame and easy life. Their hearts were not pure and their souls were waning in hopes and desires.   ABU1798

In these days the clouds of oppression have prevented the rays of the Sun of Justice from shining forth and appearing, inasmuch as most of the lands of the believers in divine unity have fallen under the control of the deniers.   BH08009

the workers of iniquity and wickedness have been seized with the greatest terror--they who cast the Book of God behind their backs and followed their own desires. The servant beareth witness that they are among the perished ones.  BH00929

They who have denied God and His verses - their souls have made evil seem fair to them and Satan hath adorned their deeds in their eyes, and they were on that day far removed from the shore of grace upon the path of wrongdoing.   BH02052

Every manner and kind of oppression hath been inflicted upon the Daysprings of Light and Dawning-places of Revelation, both in the past and present, yet that which hath befallen this Wronged One is without parallel or precedent.  BH10129

As to those things published in journals against thee: Thou shouldst not be grieved nor sorry therefor, because thousands of journals have written traducing Abdul-Baha, have given false and base accusations and awful calumnies.   AB01053

the harm inflicted by heedless souls who wander in the wilderness of immorality and who speak according to their desires is greater than the harm of the idolaters... the cawing of the ravens will be raised in every city and land   BH04830


However, in view of the weakness of some, forbearance is necessary, for if ones like you were to object, it would cause the fire of hatred to be kindled. I truly say that patience and overlooking are necessary in certain matters.   BH00531

The manner of Qurratu'l-Ayn's martyrdom was that they told her that the wife of the Prime Minister wished to meet her in the garden. When she went with them, a black servant strangled her with a kerchief and threw her in the well.  ABU3477

Once the Blessed Perfection said that the people of Mazandaran told him: 'What was the matter with our beautiful religion, that thou hast invented this strange faith of the Brotherhood of man? How can we love those whom we hate?'   ABU1089

The opposition continually keeps the Holy Land in such turmoil and disorder that most times I must occupy myself with setting right what they have corrupted. If there is but one day of negligence or oversight, severe harm results.  AB04887

Leave the mention of those who have disbelieved and warred against God, then stand firm in the Cause at a time when the leaves of faith fall from the trees of men, and every ignorant one is disturbed, and every denier fleeth away.   BH01623

These three persons tried their utmost to turn all the people against the Cause of God, so that they might all oppose it, and so make war against God. The spirits like frogs signify their words which were spread throughout Persia.   ABU0360

Say: O people! Purify your tongues from mention of these base ones and sanctify your hearts from remembrance of these transgressors who have taken their passions as a god besides God and disbelieved in Him in Whom they had believed.  BH01902

O my Lord! Thou seest them among those who have denied Thee and Thy signs, and who have unjustly decreed the shedding of their blood - a decree at which Thy chosen ones and the dwellers of the pavilion of Thy grandeur have lamented.  BH09560

Thy letter was received, thy account was read of the injuries perpetrated by the unbelievers upon the friends, and it is now known how those who are deprived of knowledge have attacked and assaulted the confidants of His mysteries.   AB04331

oppressors extended their hands of tyranny, sparing no effort in causing harm and cruelty... They have plunged into seas of hardship and calamity and fallen under the claws of fierce beasts and into the clutches of ravenous wolves.   AB12025

Fear not the enmity of that self-worshipping soul and be not troubled by his schemes. They are jackals, not lions - foxes, not raging elephants. Your helper is the Sovereign of the ethereal realm and your aid is the manifest light.   AB02721

You see what the unfaithful ones did and what cruelty they showed. There was no harm they did not inflict and no blow they did not strike, and with the sword of cruelty they cut the body of the Wronged One to pieces at every moment.  AB00335

As you have heard, in some lands differences appeared among the friends, and likewise in some cities actions contrary to wisdom were manifest, such that the clamor of the polytheists and hypocrites was raised in certain known places   BH03257

Finally they issued the death warrant for His pure blood. There occurred that which caused the Spirit of Truth to lament and the dwellers of the highest paradise to weep - a weeping that caused all things to don the garment of grief.  BH02358

They hasten unto darkness as though it were light unto them. Know ye that they are among the perishing ones. They cast the Truth behind their backs, hastening unto falsehood. Thus have their souls beguiled them in this wondrous Day.   BH08912

Most rejected it, cast the counsel of God behind their backs, clinging to the idle fancies and vain imaginings they possessed...most of the servants denied Thee, and made me turn toward Thee when the people of the lands turned away.   BH05654

They that have turned away from this Countenance - these are deprived of God's grace and mercy, and are recorded as being among the people of error by the Pen of Glory in the Tablet. Shun them, and turn with thy whole being unto Him   BH02757

And now in some lands the barking of dogs is raised, and this servant is astonished how people remain veiled from the Supreme Horizon and are deprived of the truth by the words of those who cannot distinguish between right and left.   BH00966

Thou beholdest how Thy beloved ones are treated by those who are negligent of Thy Mention and are opposing Thy Proof. Verily they have attacked them like unto the attack of the ferocious wolves upon the sheep grazing in the pastures.  AB02851

However, the divines of Iran have forbidden the people from turning towards it, and have issued the decree for the shedding of the pure blood of the Lord of mankind. They have committed that which hath caused the Mother Book to weep.   BH06527

His Name and His loved ones have been imprisoned in the land of Ta through that which the hands of the wicked have wrought - they who have followed their own desires and turned away from what God, the Lord of all worlds, hath desired.  BH02070

With force and by resorting to fanaticism and stubbornness they want to oppose the glorious text of the Divine Covenant and the proofs and testimonies of the Mother Book. Alas, Alas! Erelong, they will find themselves in evident loss.  AB12086

Would that at the time of meeting I could have informed some of the loved ones about the true nature of the Cause, that they might have understood what favors God had bestowed upon my brother, and to what extent he arose in opposition.  BH11243

They have been made targets for the darts and spears of the curses, accusations and reviling that the rebellious and the wicked hurled at them, and have been persecuted and ill-treated by their opponents among the people of the world.   AB00535

The foolish imagine that some weakness has appeared in this mighty palace, or that some deficiency can be introduced into this exalted structure through vain imaginings. How evil is that which they think and say, yet they perceive not.  AB02967

I would read for instance the following verse: "How thoughtless are the people! Whenever a prophet is sent to them they either ridicule him or persecute him." And then I would read the verse, "Verily, our host is victorious over them."  ABU1242

Whatsoever hath befallen the friends of God in His path hath come from the fire of the souls of this rebellious and tyrannical band. Woe unto them for what they have wrought! Soon shall they behold their stations in the nethermost hell.  BH06110

The wicked have made the great city - and by this We mean in this instance Alexandria - a target for their cannons, whereat eyes have shed tears, hearts have been troubled, the sacred valley hath lamented, and the Hijaz hath cried out.   BH00787

The Truth hath appeared and revealed what He desired, despite the divines of the earth and its doctors of law who turned away from God and pronounced judgment against Him with such tyranny as caused the dwellers of the Kingdom to lament  BH04578

Verily the wolf howls in the land of Ya, and therein do the near ones lament for what hath befallen the chosen ones of God and His trusted ones. By the life of God! The wolves of the world have torn apart and beheaded the true Josephs.   BH09679

O Afnan! Upon thee be My glory! The wolf has seized My sheep, the oppressor has slain My she-camel, the serpent has opened wide its jaws and swallowed its Lord. The cause of that wronged One's martyrdom was His resistance to corruption.  BH01149

"Can the mosquito of violation withstand the eagle of the Testament? No, by the Orb of Effulgence! Or can the fly of impotence and the spider of superstition repel the Birds of the Kingdom, soaring high in the space of the Gift of God?"  ABU2079

Just as this Revelation and its tokens of affirmation are the most mighty of manifestations, likewise the letters of negation in these days are mightier than all past and future ages, and are more firm and steadfast in their opposition.   BH06474

You turned away from meeting Me, though the dwellers of Paradise and the inmates of the holy retreats long for it. Soon you shall weep and lament and shall find no escape. Wait until God brings His punishment upon you from His presence.   BH03791

This deed was the result of the decree of the ignorant ones - those souls who, though having attained the most exalted station in the name of truth, wrought that which hath caused the Supreme Pen to lament and wail for successive years.   BH03338

This most great bounty the leaders of nations have counted as sin and error, and have visited upon us that which the pen is powerless to recount. We shall be patient in God as we have been patient, and shall thank Him in all conditions.   BH02385

God willing, through the grace of God mayest thou attain unto such a station wherein the words of the idolaters and the signs of the deniers and the clamor of the mischief-makers shall not prevent thee from the Dayspring of God's Cause.   BH09833

"The populace revolted against the Baha'is to such an extent, that even the Governor was made incapable of checking them. He finally said that nothing could be done, and that the Baha'is should quit the city in order to save themselves."  ABU0279

The eye-disease of vain desire hath prevented the people from beholding, and they cannot distinguish between the wolf and Joseph. They have regarded the essence of justice as the substance of tyranny, and light they have deemed darkness.   BH06486

The fire of tyranny hath been kindled in the land of Sad through that which the hands of them that disbelieved in God, the Exalted, the Great, have wrought. The serpent did bite the kindred of the Apostle and plundered their possessions.   BH07068

The glory shining from the horizon of the heaven of My mercy be upon thee and upon them and upon those whom neither the doubts of the wayward nor the cawing of the ravens have prevented from drawing nigh unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH02158

Surely in a place like Hamadan, when the enemies of truth observe that the celestial gatherings consist of four hundred people, there is no doubt that they will become agitated and will not tolerate it and will rise up to create mischief   AB01925

these souls possess nothing but a cloak like Pharaoh's dome and prayer beads like the ropes of the blameworthy people's sorcerers. Like a nightmare they have fallen upon this poor, despairing nation and become an ill-omened heavy burden.   AB02365

Consider ye! What calumny, slander, cruelty and oppression were brought down upon the Apostles by the Israelites for the sake of faith and assurance. They extended the hands of pillage, they persecuted and tortured those sanctified souls.  AB11283

With utmost power and might they are occupied with extinguishing the light and quenching the fire of the Divine Lote-Tree. However, God hath prevented them through the hosts of the seen and the unseen, and seized them through His Command.   BH01441

O Lord! I beseech Thee by Thy imprisonment which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise and the dwellers of the kingdom of names to lament, to assist Thy loved ones to celebrate Thy praise and remembrance, to arise to serve Thy Cause   BH00311

I beseech Thee to make me among those whom the ranks of the oppressors have not prevented from turning to the lights of Thy justice, and whom the veils of the people of error have not hindered from drawing nigh unto the court of Thy glory.  BH03184

Servants who know not a single letter of the Book have opposed Us, and they perceive not. When We send down the verses they dispute them, and when We manifest the clear proofs they disbelieve in God, the Lord of what was and what shall be.  BH07729

O Lord! Behold Thou Thy lovers in Thy lands, who have trembled at the onslaught of Thine enemies...the estrangement of the learned amongst Thy creatures who pretend to knowledge without any clear proof from Thee, or testimony on Thy part.   BH05559

O Lord! Thou knowest and seest what hath befallen Thy chosen ones at the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures. Subdue them, O my God, through Thy Name whereby Thou hast subdued the tyrants of Thy earth and the Pharaohs in Thy lands.  BH00024

On a certain day he was passing through the bazar with Aqa Muhammad Taqiy-i-Kashani, and the farrashes followed him and discovered where he lived. The next day, police and farrashes came looking for him and took him to the chief of police.  AB00002

Take thou the chalice of certitude in the name of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, then drink thereof time and again in defiance of such as dwell within the realm of creation who have denied the proof when it appeared with manifest sovereignty.   BH05272

In them the cry of God is raised concerning that which the fingers of hatred from every detested polytheist have wrought against Him. Say: O people! Sever not the arm of God with the swords of rancor, nor His head with the blade of hatred.   BH00734

Thou seest how Thy righteous servants have fallen into the hands of the wicked doers, who have disbelieved in Thy name, the Unconstrained, and denied Thy majesty, and Thine unrestrained authority, and Thy strength, and Thy sovereign might.   BH08849

Say: O concourse of divines! By God, through you have the sighs of the Prophets ascended and the tears of the sincere ones been shed. Cast away what ye possess, then hearken unto that which the Speaker of Sinai uttereth in this Revelation.   BH00613

There hath befallen Thy loved ones at the hands of the enemies of Thy Self that which the tongue is ashamed to recount and the pen to record. O Lord! Thou seest them beneath the talons of the idolaters and in the clutches of the oppressors.  BH08499

Among the people are those who heard and turned towards it, and among them are those who turned away and were numbered with the idolaters...who were not prevented by the doubts of the divines nor by the might of the powerful from this Cause  BH07971

You and any other friend who may be found must not associate or converse with such souls. Silence is most preferable and beloved. The enemies, due to their hidden enmity and hatred, may perchance utter something and become a cause of grief.  BH10152

We beseech God to protect them from the schemes of those who have denied God's proof and His evidence, God's power and His sovereignty, and who wander through homes and marketplaces seeking to lead people astray from the straight path of God  BH05944

Today all the believers must, with the utmost humility and supplication, beseech assistance from the Lord of the Worlds, for all find themselves confronting the assaults of the polytheists. Each day they seize one pillar and destroy another   BH01169

We beseech God to aid you in that which will exalt His Cause and to number you among those whom neither human affairs have prevented from recognizing the Lord of Destiny, nor the might of the oppressors from God, the True King, the Manifest.  BH01575

Then while the stalks are yet green and unripe, a number of people came up and start to cut them with their sickles...They answer back: 'What do we care with the labors of the divine Farmer? We are in a hurry. We need grass for our animals.'  ABU0286

By His power He seized the Liar - that is, the Truthful One of the Land of Ta - and no one became aware of it, and He seized the second one (meaning Haji Mulla Ali Mujtahid-i-Kuni), and likewise before these two, the Wolf and the Spotted One.  BH11247

Most of the men of the world, whether kings or subjects, are deprived and forbidden from this exalted station and lofty summit... And regret be unto those servants who are forbidden from the Dayspring of lights and the Dawning-place of signs.  BH06886

From the beginning of days until now He has been afflicted in the hands of enemies - at times imprisoned, at times transferred like a captive from land to land. But tribulations in the path of the Goal of all worlds have been and are beloved.   BH06556

Yet when He opened His lips to mention the Lord of humanity and the Sovereign of destiny, the wolves of the earth emerged from all directions and perpetrated that which caused the people of the City of Justice and fairness to weep and lament.   BH00880

Verily Thou art the Almighty Whom neither the whisperings of the polytheists can frustrate nor the swords of the oppressors prevent. Thy Cause hath appeared, despite their opposition, through Thy power and might and greatness and sovereignty.   BH06251

Though they witnessed how the former people, who considered themselves the most excellent of all mankind, were judged for their deeds on the Day of Reckoning, they are again busy in this Dispensation forming a party like unto the previous one.  BH08144

Mirza Hasan Mujtahid in Tabriz ordered the execution of all the friends, and one of the friends of God was killed by the fatwa of that cruel tyrant. If this had not happened, those ignorant ones would have killed all the friends in Azerbaijan.  AB00665

These have endured every hardship and suffering, and were patient through adversity and tribulation, and bore the gloating of enemies and fell under the claws and talons of fierce wolves among the opponents and savage beasts among the enemies   AB00436

"Tell me what is the voice that is calling loud in Kerman (Persia)? Is it the voice of the darvishes (tramps) or the moaning of shaykhis (a Mohammedan cult)? For the sake of the elevation of the call of God all these voices shall be silenced."  ABU2674

Since that date consider how conditions have changed, and how every one of those who oppressed this party of exiles and endeavoured with might and main to suppress the spread of this light has become lost in the abyss of despair and oblivion.   ABU2520

introduce such themes that would please the divines in Iran, gladden the hearts of the oppressors, and arouse the intense hostility of the people of this region, that perchance in Syria too, as in Yazd, an assault would be made on these exiles  AB12280

They have fallen into grave danger from aimed arrows, drawn bows, brandished spears and unsheathed swords. O Lord! They are oppressed in the hands of enemies and are captives in the clutches of ravenous wolves and fierce dogs among the wicked.  AB04621

'Abdu'l-Baha warns about "hypocrites who say 'My Lord' but their intention is to weaken the faith of the believers" and mentions that "Some people have thought that if the Covenant and Testament is weakened, it will be a good thing for them."   ABU0628

The Shaykhu'l-Islam of Tiflis has, in his own imagination, written an elegant refutation of this Cause and presented clear proofs. His refutatory treatise is being sent exactly as is. It is very flimsy and its expressions and words are common.   AB06478

Although some commotion arose in all directions from the calumnies of the calumniators... Although you and the friends suffered injury from the plots of the corrupt ones, yet these injuries were very slight and easy compared to other injuries.   AB05739

The idolaters have appeared with a new scheme, and vain imaginings have gained fresh currency, and for suspicions a lofty station hath been assigned. Again, like unto the Shi'ih sect, they wander in the wilderness of idle fancies and delusions.   BH09213

Let not the buzzing of the gnat frighten you, nor the power of the oppressors weaken you... By the Sun of Truth, the clamor of the deniers and the turning away of the opposers is, in the sight of God, more contemptible than the buzzing of a fly   BH09181

Praise be to God that we have many enemies! The priests and the Ulemas, the Rabbis and the Mobeds are attacking us right and left but these attacks make us stronger and more powerful. Ah me! We have many enemies, bitter, dangerous and vengeful!   ABU2039

When Mr. Denham said he would like to ask why the Cause of God grows more strong through persecutions and martyrdoms, which would have a tendency ordinarily to check it, the Master's face lighted up, His eyes sparkled, His words blazed forth...   ABU0304

Look not upon the people and their veils, for their vain desires have withheld them - verily they are in grievous error. They have cast guidance behind their backs - verily they are among the most lost in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH04699

At every moment they strike at Me with the swords of hatred, then cry out within themselves that they might cast doubt into the hearts of the seekers. Thus did the servants who denied God scheme aforetime, and these idolaters continue to scheme.   BH00402

O 'Ali, O thou who gazest upon My face! The servant who is present hath laid before Me thy letter at a time when sorrows have encompassed Me from all directions by reason of what hath befallen My loved ones at the hands of the aggressive forces.   BH05225

Stand thou firm in such wise that the tempests of opposition, which blow continually from the direction of them that have disbelieved in God openly while clinging to His verses to prove their cause, and who slay His own Self, shall not move thee   BH02736

The polytheists cling to oppression, knowing and believing it to be the means of extinguishing the Light. Yet they are heedless of the fact that the Hand of Divine Power will transform it into oil and thereby increase the brightness of the Lamp.   BH08654

whom neither the cawing of every cawer, nor the might of every oppressor, nor the injustice of every transgressor, nor the braying of any learned one who hath followed his idle fancies and turned away from God, the Lord of all worlds, can deter.   BH10027

Today it is incumbent upon all to beseech God, exalted be His glory, that perchance He may grant strength to the followers of His manifest Religion and protect them from the evil of the deniers and the turning away of those who have turned aside.  BH07466

Thou seest Thy chosen ones in tribulations beyond compare. The servants have risen against them without any proof or Book. They have seized them and imprisoned them and committed that which hath caused the earth to tremble and the clouds to wail.  BH09622

If the enemies, such as Haji Mirza Aga Sy and other people, have not placed obstacles in the way of the progress of this Cause, it would have by this time renovated Persia and infused into its body real progress and true civilization and culture.  ABU2136

Concerning the travel of the handmaiden of God Mrs. Getsinger with several others to the East, a letter was previously written to her about making preparations, but they should not hurry now since Iran is in turmoil. Let it become peaceful first.  AB12534

They make mention of God by night and by day, yet when He appeared they pronounced judgment against Him with manifest injustice. By them have the Concourse on High lamented and the Most Exalted Word cried out, yet most of the people are heedless.   BH03130

All the Prophets of God were scorned and persecuted. Consider Moses. The people called Him a murderer. They said, "You killed a man and fled from punishment and retribution. Is it possible after your former deeds that you could become a Prophet?"   ABU0038

He imagines that the dust of this deceit and fraud will conceal the radiant sun and extinguish the kindled fire of the Lord. Alas! Alas! Soon he shall see that these dark clouds have vanished and the Sun of Truth is shining with utmost brilliance.  AB11703

In these days the Holy Land is in turmoil. A group came from the great city and made rebellious and secret investigations and left. The matter is still in consultation and has not yielded results. What is certain is that the intention is not good.  AB02244

As for the account of the martyrdoms, truly it is an incident without parallel in history. The cruel oppressors tore an entire family to pieces in five minutes, even beheading a four-month-old child - a bloodthirsty wolf would not do such a thing.  AB05678

There befell the Wronged One in the previous year that which caused the Pen to weep and the Tablet to lament. A tyrannical person sat upon the seat of authority and committed that which caused the rocks to cry out and the Concourse on High to wail.  BH02068

The friends in Shiraz must act with the utmost wisdom, for the banner of God's Cause has been raised throughout all regions and the friends are attracted by the Most Great Glad-Tidings. Therefore, the jealousy of the turbaned ones has been aroused.  AB07938

"The delay in reply was due to the severity of trials and the interference of every malicious person, for due to the intensity of attacks, there is absolutely no opportunity to engage in mentioning the divine loved ones or in writing and speaking."  AB07314

Be like a mighty lion so that the fox-like creatures who consider themselves to be peacocks of the highest heaven and who, having hidden under the packsaddle of fear and dread, instill doubts, may find no opportunity to settle and may take flight.   AB04445

Praise be to God, the government seeks the utmost justice, but the mischief-making leaders imagine that persecuting the friends of God will bring them honor. Therefore, they disturb the hearts of the common people so that they might create turmoil.  AB03240

They seized two souls from among the firm and steadfast ones. Glory be to God! They seized the wicked Ahmad-i-Kirmani who confessed to his error and to writing the seized document, yet this did not lead to the manifestation of justice and fairness.   BH06795

Grieve not over what the hands of those who are stirred by the winds of desire have wrought, and who have been kept back from the precincts of My Most Glorious Name. Verily, they have turned away from the Truth and have taken Satan as their helper.   BH05914

O Husayn! The All-Knowing hath turned toward thee and remembereth thee with that which shall strengthen thee to remain steadfast in His Clear Announcement. Beware lest the might of those who have disbelieved in the Lord of the worlds frighten thee.   BH00728

The worthless ones of the earth have desired to conceal the rays of the Sun of Truth and extinguish the fire of the Divine Lote-Tree. Their hands are chained and they are accursed for what they have intended, even as those before them were accursed.  BH10529

"As for the slanderous books, although they may spread and temporarily cause an uproar, they will be forgotten in a short time. 'As for the foam, it passeth away as scum upon the banks, while that which is of use to mankind remaineth in the earth.'"  AB12241

"neither the opposition of the divines nor the objections of the learned nor the power of rulers would deter thee. Choose for thyself what We have chosen for thee and regard not those who have wronged save as an ant that flieth for an hour or less."   BH01568

"Follow not those who have denied God and His signs, and who, when the verses of their Lord are recited unto them, bow their heads and turn upon their heels, mocking God and His Manifestations, remaining veiled behind the veils of their own selves."   BH01777

The veils of those who have denied the signs of thy Lord have come between thee and it. God willing, He may rend them asunder through His sovereignty and honor thee with that which hath been sent down from the presence of the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH09628

And remember when thou didst enter Iraq and God through thee broke the might of the aggressors. Blessed is thy mother when she entered the house of her Lord, whereby the hearts of the female polytheists and male polytheists were thrown into commotion.  BH04471

Blessed are ye, O my Afnan, for having heard and turned towards and recognized and remained steadfast in this Cause, whereby the limbs of the learned were made to quake and the pillars of the divines were shaken and every lofty mountain was scattered.  BH04269

Thou seest me among Thy creatures who have rebelled and transgressed against Thee. Every time I invite them unto the ocean of Thy knowledge, their repudiation of Thy Cause increaseth and their rejection of the Dawning-Place of Thy Will waxeth greater.  BH09621

All religions have risen against Him, and behind them all governments, yet He hath been set ablaze with the fire of God's love in such wise that it shall not be quenched in Him though all the seas created by the command 'Be' were to be poured upon it.  BH02235

neither the oppression of the tyrants nor the rejection of the transgressors who have ascended the pulpits in Thy name and uttered concerning Thee that which caused the dwellers of the pavilion of Thy majesty and the tabernacle of Thy glory to lament   BH00998

After the business of the Land of Kaf, the company of the oppressors were wont to repeat this utterance: "Husayn beyond his limit stray'd, * so slain was, by his grandsire's blade." Fie upon them, and upon those that have followed in their footsteps!   BH02301

The world hath been illumined by the Luminary of the Most Great Name, yet the people remain heedless and astray. The locusts of hatred have spread abroad; thus hath the Most Exalted Pen informed you when the Light was shining from the horizon of Iraq.  BH00026

Despite this, a few foolish ones spread doubts, claiming that the Cause of God hath been obliterated, the fame of Truth forgotten, and the call of the Kingdom of Glory consigned to oblivion. How wretched are those hearers whose ears have become deaf!   AB07121

When the light of the Cause shed its radiance upon the horizons of the world, certain souls emerged from behind the veil with swords of hatred, intending to strike at the Sun of Truth. Thus did their souls beguile them. By My life! They comprehend not.  BH03478

The children of the earth have desired to extinguish the divine light. Say: By God! The hands of the Caesars of the earth have failed to accomplish this - how much less these who play with the clay of idle fancies! They are assuredly among the losers.   BH05355

The consequence of those deeds was that on the Day of Resurrection they cursed the Lord of all beings and martyred Him. And now in mosques and from pulpits they utter that which causeth the eye of God to weep and the hearts of His trusted ones to burn.  BH11619

On the day of tumult and uproar when a group, without any proof or evidence, attacked the dwelling of one firm in the Covenant... The foolish lie in wait to find opportunity, to stretch forth the hand of aggression and engage in oppression and enmity.   AB00454

I replied, "In Germany, I received his letter. He wrote about the opposition of the Jews of Hamadan, who are in concert with Muslims and Christians against the Baha'is, not accepting them in businesses or allowing them in the public baths or schools."   ABU0546

O Lord! They are captives in the hands of strangers who direct at them the arrows of harm with all haughtiness and aim their spears at them and give free rein against them, not fearing Thy might nor dreading Thy wrath - these thorny weeds and brambles.  AB02305

That neither the tempests of those who have disbelieved and associated partners with God, nor the storms of the deniers may move him... But the people hear not My words and have denied this resplendent and wondrous Beauty by veiling themselves from it.   BH02782

O Ahmad! The hosts of tyranny have encompassed the kindred of the Apostle, whereat the Concourse on High have lamented, as have those who have held fast to My Strong Cord. By God! The Ark of the Pure One hath been tossed between the waves of dissension.  BH00237

Fear not any trouble, persecution or calamity which may befall you, for it is said that when the flag of truth appears it will be cursed by the people of the east and the west; just as it was in the past, so it will be now without the least difference.   ABU0115

Having regard to the need for wisdom, such a measure is not at present permissible, for the people of enmity and rancour lie in ambush, whilst the malevolent lurk in hidden corners. Upon the slightest pretext they would arise to desecrate the sepulchre.  AB06102

And yet, despite this universal brightness and illumination the blind call out: "Where is this manifest light?" The souls who wander homeless cry: "Where is this impregnable stronghold?" Those who have gone astray bewail: "Where is this straight path?"   AB01961

In Yazd, where the friends were only occupied with prayers and invocation to His sacred threshold, the opposition was a hundredfold, nay rather a thousandfold... how the perversity of these ignorant clergymen known to be knowledgeable hath destroyed it   AB00611

Therefore, there is no doubt but that you will become afflicted with trial, calamity and oppression in the path of the Beauty of ABHA. These trials are the essence of bestowal and pure bounty and the proofs of your acceptance in the Threshold of Oneness.  AB01661

Among these, in recent days they have reported that the Primal Point wrote a letter stating that someone would appear in the year nine claiming to be the Promised One, and that he would be a liar. Now observe to what degree their wickedness hath reached.   BH00371

Yet when the Sun of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of Will, all turned away and rose up in opposition. Would that they had been content with such actions! Rather, they arose to spread calumnies and issued verdicts for the shedding of pure blood.   BH03084

Even greater affliction is that the veiled ones among Thy servants stretch forth their ears to eavesdrop and snatch what they can, objecting to Thy poor and humble servant at the gate of Thy oneness, raising the standard of denial and the banner of pride   AB00716

And forgive his father who was afflicted with the persecution of enemies and the oppression of ignorant tyrants, and who was attacked by every sinful transgressor and base slanderer, while he remained content with Thy decree and patient under Thy trials.   AB03606

The governments of the east arose with great determination to exterminate this cause. They held councils and said, "We must uproot the tree of this community and abolish the foundation of this palace of universal peace which these people desire to found"   ABU0058

One day he writeth unto his like, with whom it beseemeth not the loved ones of God to converse - may my spirit be a sacrifice unto thee - and another day he sendeth his representative to the chief of the city to lodge a complaint against the Beauty of God   BH01802

Hearts have been inflamed with hatred of Thee, and every soul hath risen up against Thy loved ones. The matter hath grown so grave that the people show no mercy to young or old, and whenever they hear anyone make mention of Thee, they rise up against him.   BH08249

for the manifestations of Satan have appeared with the utmost craftiness - at times preventing people from their Source in the name of the inner meaning, and at times holding back weak souls from the path of divine oneness in the name of the outer meaning   BH06739

They conspired to undermine God's Cause when the Ancient Beauty dwelt in the house behind closed doors. Thou knowest how We protected them under Our wings for successive years and bore with patience what befell Us through their tyranny by night and by day   BH03327

certain nameless and shameless people, devoid of intelligence and culture, like predatory whales are lying in wait for you, and they neither rest nor seek justice, but rather extend the hand of tyranny and perpetrate every manner of cruelty and oppression   AB12373

When those stubborn people became powerless against the shining proof of the Ever-Living, Self-Subsisting One, they therefore resorted to vices and like wolves attacked the divine sheep, considering this savagery a gift and this bloodthirstiness nobility.   AB02425

The world hath been encompassed by the dark dust of oppression, and they have arisen to perpetrate a tyranny that hath had and hath no like or equal. Those who have come for the life of the peoples of the world have been condemned to death by their decree.   BH09437

for the embodiments of idle fancies have been and continue to be engaged in preventing the loved ones of God. This is why We have forewarned all aforetime. Clamor will be raised and the book of the netherworld and the tablets of fire will be spread abroad.   BH03406

O thou who gazeth toward the Most Exalted Horizon! The deniers have wished to extinguish God's light through their oppression and their turning away. Say: Fie upon you! His Cause shall be made manifest as He pleaseth, despite you, O company of polytheists!   BH02694

Thou seest, O my God, how oppression hath encompassed Thy lands and realms, such that no trace of justice can be found, and all have followed the evil ones. The matter hath nearly reached such a state that Thy name and signs would be erased from the earth.   BH00295

The wolves have encompassed Us from every side. The command is in God's hands, the Lord of the past and future. Neither the arrows of the enemies nor the swords of those who have disbelieved in God, the Lord of all existence, can withhold the glory of Baha.   BH02627

But when the fragrance of that Day wafted and the Ancient Beauty was established upon the throne of His Cause, all remained veiled, nay, turned away. Their heedlessness reached such a state that they pronounced the death sentence upon that Essence of being.   BH07158

In any case, in whatever manner and condition the Source of the Command has risen from the horizon of the world, the people have occupied themselves with rejection and opposition, and have not been content with God's good-pleasure, save whom thy Lord willed.  BH03732

They have lost indeed who denied God's manifestation and His sovereignty. Woe unto them for what they have earned in their vain life. God shall soon seize them with His wrath as He seized their like before. He is verily the Seizer, the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH03621

Who summons you while under the talons of hatred...Blessed is the speaker whom the roaring of the divines did not deter, and blessed is the one who turned toward God, whom neither the opposition of the clergy nor the might of rulers held back from the Truth.  BH03577

Today the manifestations of the whisperer are occupied with the promptings of self, and through a hundred thousand wiles they prevent the hapless people who have no knowledge of the Ocean of divine wisdom and the Sun of insight from attaining unto the truth.  BH02938

Today whatever the adherents of this Revelation do is attributed to the Tree itself, for people are unaware and imagine that perhaps they are commanded to corruption from the direction of the All-Merciful. In any case, this corruption hath caused great harm.  BH04610

"You have done all you could to shed our blood, and you imagine you can uproot the Blessed Tree. Never, never! This Blessed Tree is firmly established with roots that no axe can cut down, even if all the kings of the world should arise with all their might."  AB00416

Although the suffering, tribulation, injury, cruelty, persecution, and injustice inflicted by the enemies is relentless, nevertheless, praise be unto God, the friends there have shown forth steadfastness, fortitude, and long-suffering, nay even thankfulness.  AB04124

A group, at the instigation of their leader, have risen up to harm the people of God. Each day they cling to some new falsehood, having in all circumstances arisen to undermine the Cause of God, and they have uttered that which no oppressor hath ever uttered.  BH05618

The helpless servants have been prevented from the Truth by those possessed of ulterior motives...Today oppression is the most beauteous adornment for the temple of the loved ones, and likewise it is the supreme cause for the turning of the servants unto God.  BH05617

Each day the opposers of the Threshold attribute some theft and refer it to the poor, helpless inhabitants of Akka. Through tricks and schemes they seek to stain His sanctified hem, in order to erase the traces of truth and establish the traces of falsehood.   BH03166

Oppression and hatred have reached such a state that description and interpretation fall short of mentioning it. Forbearance hath become the cause of severity, and kindness hath led to wrath. They deny every righteous deed and make every easy thing difficult.  BH03502

We have aided you even as We began you, and We read not in the Book of God save your denial of Our signs from the presence of the Remembrance, repeatedly. What aileth you that ye remember not within yourselves a remembrance from God, the Truth, even a little?  BB00002

Behold the people - they see the lights of the Sun shining from the horizon of grandeur and majesty, and the seas of verses and proofs surging between earth and heaven, yet they have denied this bounty and taken for themselves the calf as lord instead of God.   BH02243

Should all who are on earth arise to extinguish this Light that shineth from the horizon of Sinai, and should they assist one another and grasp at every means, they shall find themselves in evident loss, and the Cause will remain God's, the Lord of all worlds.  BH00679

When God frustrated what they intended, they then raised an outcry within themselves, perchance thereby to cast rancor into the hearts of the sanctified ones. Then they fabricated against Me all that befitteth their own selves and that their hands have earned   BH03088

the wrongdoers, in pride and vainglory, have denied God's favor and His proof, and have pronounced judgment against those for whom the dwellers of the Kingdom lament. They shed blood and wrongfully consume the wealth of the people while imagining they do good.  BH07814

In Shiraz some foolish and base individuals have spoken against you, but they were immediately disappointed and lost. This commotion and raving will cause Chihrihnama to reveal its face and this unique journal will gain great importance now and in the future.   AB01524

As for the ill-wishers in Lahijan, nay even the mightiest powers in the contingent world cannot resist the Cause of the Lord of Creation, let alone these helpless ones. They trouble themselves and lose their dignity, and in the end will fall into evident loss.  AB09916

That illustrious person was truly silent and mute, no longer concerned with religious denominations. He is wise, but the religious authorities are objecting and protesting, deliberately spreading lies and slander. They speak and fabricate while knowing better.   AB00596

You wrote about the abuse, cursing, taunting and condemnation from the lowest elements of society. This is a badge of honor and evidence of the steadfastness and firmness of the loved ones of God. If the ignorant masses do not curse, it is a sign of deficiency.  AB01200

This ignorant oppressor speaks the same worthless words as before and is occupied with organizing a party similar to the Shi'ih party. It is not known what he has understood and what he has intended and what he has comprehended of the fruits of the Blessed Tree.  BH01840

By manifestations of tyranny is meant, in the first instance, those divines who are honored in the name of truth yet have turned away from it. The cawing of heedless divines hath been the cause of opposition against the people of truth in all ages and centuries.  BH00546

This was truly a severe incident, and the strangers imagined that through this attack they would uproot and destroy, whereas through such tyrannical movements they only make themselves the disgrace of the world and cause the eternal glory of the divine friends.   AB06125

In every city, both in Iran and in these Ottoman domains, numerous spies have been appointed, and these spies speak whatever the ruler and oppressor desire. There is absolutely no truth in their words. The dust of falsehood has concealed the face of truthfulness.  BH02184

The wolves have surrounded the dawning-places of divine gifts and favors, and have committed that which has caused My heart, My pen, My outer being and My inner being to weep. The oppressor has denied God's proof, His evidence, His greatness and His sovereignty.   BH01329

Consider likewise the former ages: whenever a Manifestation appeared, Our misguided servants denied Him. Some turned away, some disbelieved, and some waged war until they unjustly slew the Dawning-Places of God's revelation from among the Prophets and Messengers.  BH06572

The heedless have surrounded them and are advancing from every height. Finally, through their efforts some of the friends were imprisoned, and the secret police came to the door of the house and placed us under surveillance, watching most strictly day and night.   AB00051

In Istanbul there were several base individuals who greatly persecuted Aqa Siyyid Ahmad. Since Aqa Siyyid Ahmad was innocent, they perpetrated the utmost corruption against him in all ways through slander, calumny and inciting the wicked, ignorant and oppressors   AB00873

Woe unto the deniers, and misery to the heedless, and abasement to those who have gone astray, who denied the signs of God and rejected the evidences of God and associated partners with the Beauty of God and disputed the proof of God - these are in manifest error  AB04180

From every quarter have appeared manifestations of rancor and sources of hatred, even though until now they have not attained their purpose and remain deprived of the Kawthar of utterance which is the cause of eternal life and the source of everlasting existence.   BH02816

These are they whom neither that which is in the hands of men, nor that which their lying tongues utter, can deter. They are the lights of unity in the lands and the stars of detachment among the servants. Soon will their station be made manifest to all on earth.   BH01130

among them are those who turned away and those who denied, yet they neither understand nor perceive. By God's life! They know not that He Who spoke before the faces of all the world and preserved not Himself for less than a moment - from Him they have turned away   BH04888

We complain of those divines who have turned away from Him Whom they invoke - they are indeed among the liars. They have disputed the verses of God, denied His proof, and warred against His Own Self, the One Who rules over all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH05791

Those who have been seized by the wine of passion have turned away from God, the Lord of all beings, and denied Him Whom they had been invoking in the nights and days. Every sect hath followed a name among names and thereby opposed God, the Source of Inspiration.   BH06662

Rather, he is constantly the target of arrows and a prisoner to the oppression of tyrants. In the region of Khurasan, time and again, from stranger and kin alike, every malicious person has risen to harm him, yet they found in him neither lassitude nor negligence.  AB11346

How, then, can such a man be fearful of the combination of the kings to injure him in Thy Cause? No, no, I swear by Thyself, O Thou Who art the King of kings! Such is my love for Thee that I can fear no one, though the powers of all the worlds be arrayed against me  BH02462

In Namiq, every corrupt transgressor has stretched forth the hand of aggression, and that place has become a fortress for evil-doers. Finding the government preoccupied, they have seized the opportunity and like wolves have galloped freely in the field of savagery.  AB01948

The heedless oppressor hath struck a mighty blow with arrows of calumnies against the temple of trustworthiness and religion, that there might be made manifest unto all what they possessed of the whisperings of the manifestations of idle fancies and vain imaginings.  BH03708

About thirty or forty years ago, in the province of ... , the Muslims assaulted the Jewish colony and began a wholesale slaughter, and only those Jews who, narrowly escaping, could get to the mosque to confess were saved. The rest were subjected to wholesale murder.  ABU2270

Though enmity may arise from every direction, its occurrence is neither strange nor surprising. But what is most strange and remote indeed is that despite non-resistance and the utmost kindliness, there persists, contrarily, continuing hostility from the claimants.   AB00220

Consider how many divines, learned ones, princes, rich and poor were awaiting the Day of God, lamenting and bewailing night and day, yet when the Most Great Luminary appeared from the horizon of the will of the Ancient King, all remained veiled save whom God willed.   BH03202

Through the heedlessness of the negligent and the wickedness of the aggressors, the place of the Wronged One has become the prison of Akka. How far is the land of Ta from Akka! Divine love hath attracted and continueth to attract, and He preferreth exile to homeland.  BH00452

Let not the intimations of the heedless grieve you, nor the might of the ascetics who visit the House and endure hardships, thinking themselves to be among the doers of good. Yet when the Lord of the House appeared, they denied Him - they are indeed among the losers.   BH02449

Soon shall they find themselves in the lowest depths. The tyrants and Pharaohs mentioned in every instance are, according to the explanation of the All-Merciful, the divines of the age who in every era and century have been the cause of people's hindrance and veiling.  BH00439

The Cause of God appears weak due to the prevalence of tyranny, and now lies under the claws of enemies. Beseech God to grant deliverance, preserve His Faith, and cause the light of the Sun of Justice to overcome the darkness of oppression and illuminate the horizons.  BH00263

Reflect a little upon the afflictions and tribulations of this Prisoner, Who has spent His entire life in the hands of His enemies, and every day has been afflicted with a fresh trial in the path of God's love, until the Cause of God was exalted amongst His servants.   BH00718

The savage beasts from the isles of tyranny and ignorance have torn the divine sheep. A fire of oppression hath been kindled in the land of Ya that the eye of creation hath never seen its like. The oppressor hath committed that which hath caused all things to lament.   BH04440

Through the opposition of such souls, the people of Iran remained veiled from the recognition of the Purpose of all worlds and occupied themselves with cursing and denouncing. The unfair people are striving with the swords of hatred and enmity to extinguish the light.  BH11746

"The winds of malice have arisen, and from the Lote Tree of the Cause have fallen leaves for whom the Beloved (Muhammad) hath lamented, the Friend (Abraham) hath cried out, and Gabriel hath announced: 'The torment hath been made ready for you, O ye people of malice!'"  BH04356

Certainly some of the clergy will arise in enmity and opposition, and will desire to cause harm and injury and cast doubts, for the spread of the Cause of God will make their market dull like the Pharisees, and they will become despised and disgraced among the people.  AB04047

"In Shiraz they did ran a cord through his nose and paraded him through the streets and Bazaars. He followed the spiritual destiny of the Cause and at last he was besieged by the royal army with the rest of the Babis in the famous fortress of Tabarassi in Mazanderan."  ABU1369

How many nights, O my God, did he stay awake while the stars shone, immersed in waves of grief as oppressive people rose against him, aimed at him arrows of suspicion, and leveled against him spears of cruel tyranny - his only crime being belief in Thee and Thy verses  AB00982

By the Sun of inner meanings! Such wrong hath been wrought against the Beauty of God as hath not been witnessed from the beginning of creation until now, such that the leaves of the Tree of Eternity have withered and the branches of the Ultimate Tree have been broken.   BH03803

Although from Our first arrival in this land and entry into the Most Great Prison, this Servant has not uttered a word except what God has ordained, and we have ever spoken what is in the Holy Books, nevertheless you saw what they perpetrated and heard what they said.   BH01642

You mentioned a new sedition, but no new matter has arisen or become manifest. From the first day we attained to the knowledge of God, we have fixed our gaze upon this holy and eternal Manifestation, counting all lesser divine manifestations as non-existent before Him.  BH00004

We have heard of your encounter with Ha of the abyss. By My life, she is a deaf rock that neither drinks nor grows... She is among the most ignorant of the ignorant, knowing nothing of books except their colors, and nothing of scrolls except their decorative patterns.   BH01863

Alas, poor souls, the knowledge they have is not based on truth, the foundation of their belief is not the teaching of Baha'u'llah! There is, assuredly, a certain amount of truth in what they have been told, but for the most part their information has been inaccurate.   ABU1175

Is it not evident that these servants are manifestly in the hands of enemies?... Have you not heard that the nightingales of the divine rose-garden have fallen prey to Satan's talons, and the spiritual songsters are being barred from the holy and spiritual rose-garden?   BH01622

And when the veils of glory were rent asunder by the hand of power and the world was illumined by the lights of His countenance, all turned away except whom God willed, and some who claimed faith and certitude were deprived of the Lord of Lords by the croak of a raven.   BH07007

Say: O people! Fear God, and follow not those who have denied God's testimony and His proof, and have committed that which hath caused every discerning soul and every informed sage to weep. Let not the utterances of those who have denied the Day of Judgment grieve thee.  BH04813

the officers, at the instigation of the formal clergy, attacked the oppressed ones like vipers and serpents, and committed such cruelties that they caused anguish and distress to the hearts of the Concourse on High and aroused grief and lamentation in the Abha Kingdom.   AB01319

How foolish are the people of the East to have incarcerated for wellnigh fifty years the like of this glorious Personage! But for His chains and prison, Baha'u'llah by this time would have gained absolute ascendancy over the minds and thoughts of the peoples of Europe.   AB02805

When We entered the Most Great Prison... We were in the hands of the heedless... Among the people were those who turned away, following every dubious learned one who cast the verses of God behind their backs and clung to the suppositions and idle fancies they possessed.   BH03654

And regarding what was written about the Siyyid, upon him be what is upon him - it is evident to all: for every light there is darkness. God will soon seize him with a mighty force from His presence and prevent him from what he intended and make him a lesson to observers  BH02774

God hath heard the lamentations of His loved ones who were wronged though they wronged not, and were seized though they seized not, in most lands including Zawra and Hadba and Fayha and Egypt and the Land of Mystery and from the Great City and Alexandria and Mansuriyyih.  BH07744

So the best thing I can desire of you is to stand firm in the faith, even if you hear of the most great troubles and sorrows-even if you were to hear that I had been killed or crucified, as Christ was 1900 years ago, let not your faith be in any wise troubled or shaken.   ABU1351

The horizon of utterance has shone forth and the All-Merciful has come with clear proof, yet the people have arisen in great opposition. They have denied God and His sovereignty and committed that which has caused every rock to cry out and every informed being to lament.   BH05807

The clamor is raised high and the atheists lie in wait - should they find opportunity they would cast doubt. They have objected to the Dayspring of divine verses and the Source of heavenly proofs, which has ever been thus, while considering themselves possessed of faith.   BH04833

Look not upon the power of the enemies and the veiling of the people today. Though outwardly they appear strong, in truth they are the weakest of creatures. Soon shall they all turn with great remorse and supreme regret toward their Lord, the Most High, the All-Glorious.   BH02077

Lest the people of guidance object to you, and perhaps the ark of fire will sail upon the sea of piety - Glorified be my Lord, the Most High! And if anyone objects to you, do not grieve but return unto God, for unto Him is the return - Glorified be my Lord, the Most High!  BH11879

Reflect within thyself how thy recompense should be for Our having remembered thee while We were imprisoned in the hands of the oppressors. Confine matters to the remembrance of thy Forgiving Lord, then speak of what hath befallen Him at the hands of these transgressors.   BH01718

"While we were in the barrack an important meeting of the Pashas was held in Turkey. They all agreed upon the fact that soon there will be left no trace from us, that the young plant of the Baha'i Cause will be completely uprooted and its fragrant flowers soon withered."   ABU0237

When the Promised One appeared, the divines and mystics of the earth turned away from Him, save whom thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Choosing, did will. They make mention of God with their tongues while pronouncing judgment against Him without any clear proof or evidence.   BH09691

The cause of the world's turning away hath been the divines of the age. They themselves say that when the Qa'im uttereth a word, the chiefs of the earth, who are the most exalted of creation, shall turn away from it. Yet they themselves have arisen with great presumption.   BH07596

The people of tyranny have stretched forth the hand of oppression and committed injustice and aggression. They have raised an outcry and clamor that they might cut off the life-giving breeze from the All-Glorious Paradise and conceal the radiant lights of the Sun of Truth.  AB02085

Consider what these people brought upon the friends - what blood they spilled, what foundations they destroyed, how many souls they martyred, how many women they took captive, how many nursing infants they wounded with sharp daggers, how many mutilated bodies they burned.   AB01381

Night and day they are occupied with communicating fabricated accusations to governments, attributing corruption, sedition and enmity against the government to 'Abdu'l-Baha, claiming that He strives and labors against those in authority and never fails to betray the state.  AB00367

If there was any laxity or shortcoming in responding before, this is due to the faithless ones who, through their intense oppression, give no time or opportunity and keep me constantly occupied day and night with dispelling corruption and extinguishing the fire of enmity.   AB02779

For nearly two years these regions and their surroundings have not been free from disturbance, and they have seized some people's letters due to certain suspicions, for these people have secretly caused corruption in the sublime realms in various ways and continue to do so.  BH01950

Let not the multitude of enemies grieve you. God shall soon render them as dust, and thou shalt hear their clamor as no more than the buzzing of flies. He, verily, is cognizant of all things. Can anything withstand His Cause, or can the tyranny of the oppressors defeat it?   BH00414

Another matter that must be considered is that copies of the Tablets sent, as well as the letter specifically dispatched to the maternal uncle, should not go to Iran, for the oppressors of the world secretly harass the oppressed. They know and recognize the divines of Iran.  BH11727

I beseech Thee by the lights of the Sun of Thy Revelation and by that which Thou hast sent down from the heaven of Thy bounty, to preserve Thy chosen ones from the machinations of Thine enemies, who have clung to the cords of deception and held fast to the hem of falsehood.  BH06917

Opposition but makes the Cause grow stronger. It is like the earth - the more it is plowed, the more fruitful it becomes. You must expect great opposition. You will be persecuted for my Names Sake, and when stones are thrown at you in the street, then it will come to pass.   ABU1017

Among these is one among the people of dissension, upon whom be God's curse - when he speaks he lies, when he makes a promise he breaks it, and when trusted he betrays. These are the attributes of the hypocrites, and a hundred thousand times worse are found in that vile one.  BH00015

We beseech God, exalted be He, to aid you to assist His Cause and to reinforce you with the hosts of wisdom and utterance, whereby no earthly might shall weaken you nor the clamor of the nations who have disbelieved in the Witness and the Witnessed shall render you powerless  BH02279

The infidels have arisen in tyranny on every hand: Where is the compelling power of Thine ordaining pen, O Conqueror of the worlds? The door leading to the Divine Presence is locked through the tyranny of Thy foes: Where is the key of Thy bestowal, O Unlocker of the worlds?   BH00687

They utter that which no idolater has ever uttered, and each day some ignorant one speaks a word. Verily, many worshippers of the calf may appear in these lands, even as We previously announced the cawing of the crows, which has appeared and continues to appear in every city.  BH00285

for the cawing of the crows and the fire of the souls of the polytheists in that land are ablaze and rising up. At all times they have been and are engaged in craftiness and deception, that perchance they might prevent those who have turned towards God from the Greatest Scene   BH05616

Were the oppressors to hearken to but one line thereof, they would, by their own hands, bring about their destruction. Would that the veil might be lifted from before their eyes, that they might recognize what they have wrought in the days of God, the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH02687

The calumnies of those who have followed their selfish desires have not prevented Us, nor hath the oppression of the wrongdoers who outwardly show love but inwardly support Mine enemies and cast upon them the doubts of those who have denied the Day of Judgment, frightened Us.   BH02379

All the enemies of His Holiness the Intended One, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, have aimed the arrows of cruelty and spears of harm at the breast of this wanderer, and with all their might they strive for uprooting and destruction and schemes of obliteration.  AB00809

When the Nagezeen found out that I expect to buy this land they went to the owner and filled his ears with wild stories of gold and silver. They told him that Abbas Effendi is obliged to buy this land from you, therefore you may raise the price and ask him any amount you like.  ABU0271

The Zoroastrian friends are of the people of Paradise, and in Yazd and its surroundings they have received their share and portion of calamities, trials and tests. They have endured injuries, heard reproaches, suffered persecution and encountered a thousand kinds of hardships.  AB09533

If your relatives have turned away from you, praise be to God, you are the manifestation of the favors of the Lord. And if they reproach and blame you, you are the manifestation of the praise of the Supreme Concourse and accepted at the threshold of His Holiness the Most Great.  AB09459

So they signified to the governor of Fars, Husayn Khan, If thou desirest the extinction of this fire, or seekest a firm stopper for this rent and disruption, an' immediate cure and decisive remedy is to kill the Bab. And the Bab has assembled a great host and mediates a rising.  AB00003

This was the practice of the fault-finding slanderers among the rejected ones in previous ages - they would aim arrows of suspicion and direct the poisoned spears of criticism at every breast that was expanded through knowledge of God and set ablaze with the fire of God's love.   AB02159

Let not the intimations of those who have disbelieved in God sadden thee. The breaths of chastisement have seized them from every direction and today they burn in the fire of their own selves. God will soon return them to their abode - evil indeed is the abode of the wrongdoers.   BH02800

Blinded were the eyes of those who prevented the servants from entering the precincts of their Lord's mercy... And whenever he desired to attain the presence, the eyes of those who denied God were blinded and prevented His loved ones from turning to His shining and radiant Face.   BH01784

The oppressed One of the horizons is surrounded by the people of discord, who with utmost effort strive to extinguish the divine light and quench the fire of the divine Lote-Tree. What benefit did their fathers and ancestors who previously girded themselves for these deeds obtain?  BH00866

Sometimes when opposition was at its worst, the government used to search for them, throw them into the rivers. Whoever was suspected of being a Bahai was immediately killed. They would cut his throat, cut his ear, cut his nose; they would put iron in the fire and burn his flesh.   ABU1339

Once there was an official who in order to intimidate me to bribe him came one morning and said: 'I shall write inflammatory letters and throw them into the window into your house; then shall [I] send the police to search and seize these documents and thus you will be convicted.'   ABU2389

Darkness hath encompassed all regions, and that which was inscribed in the Books of God, the Omnipotent, the Mighty, the All-Choosing, hath come to pass. There hath befallen Us, at the hands of the contentious rabble who cannot distinguish between a roar and the braying of a donkey  BH10624

The bird that soareth in the atmosphere of the love of God cannot be snared by the birds of the idle fancies of those who have turned away. Such souls abide beneath the canopy of the mercy of their Lord. Nothing can move them, nor can the hints of the idolaters cause them to slip.   BH06635

"Would that the rabble had not undertaken this heart-rending oppression!" For it produced the opposite effect - it was thought it would cause extinction, but this blood surged forth and produced attraction and warmth, becoming the cause of intensifying the fire of the love of God.   AB01565

O ye friends of God! Though the wolves and fierce beasts of the field lie in wait for you, through they are ready to pounce upon the gazelles of the field of divine unity and carry out that which is their natural instinct, yet ye should place your whole reliance in the True Friend   AB00911

Glory be to God! The people of the West, despite their remoteness, have awakened, while the Babis of Iran are still captive to the sleep of heedlessness. Those raised the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha!" while these Iranians and their leaders cried out "Where is refuge, where is escape?"  AB00137

Consider the Land of Ya, how a few years ago the rebellious ones had completely blocked the path for the people of recognition, and had so darkened the horizon of that land with the gloom of tyranny that every lamp was extinguished and every heart was burning with intense anguish.   AB01949

I found the Jews very crestfallen today, because on slight excuses the government has exiled eight of their prominent leaders. The new rigorous laws of the naturalization wear heavily on them. This has been made also the reason for the banishment and imprisonment of their leaders.   ABU0953

Thou seest and knowest that the oppressors have wronged Thy loved ones who have turned toward the Dayspring of Thy Revelation, the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration and the Source of Thy Cause, and have driven them, together with their children and their women, from their homeland   BH10682

For some time this pen has not been outwardly engaged in mentioning that kind friend, and this has been due to the numerous attacks of the enemies and the atrocities and transgressions of the people of wickedness and the oppression of the party of pride and the people of remissness.  AB08013

Due to the severe upheavals of the world which have overturned East and West, the friends were compelled to leave their familiar homeland with utmost difficulty and migrate to the regions of Tabriz, Ganja and Baku. And it is known what tribulations and afflictions they have endured.  AB02386

Such of Thy servants as dwell in Thy land and have transgressed against Thee have assailed them, and banished them from Thy cities, and made them captives, and delivered them into the hands of workers of iniquity among Thy people and the perverse amidst the wicked doers in Thy realm.  BH01693

Strange that he has never been, nor is he now, aware of the foundation of the Cause. It is not known by what wings he flies or to what he clings. They who denied the meeting with God and His signs are indeed among the greatest losers in the Book of our Lord, the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH00028

As for the opposition and denial of the arrogant ones - this causes no harm to the Cause of the Lord. Rather, it is the cause of fame and the means of spreading. Eventually the deniers too will become believers and the arrogant ones will arise with utmost submissiveness and humility   AB02366

Nasiri'd-Din Shah, king of Iran, and 'Abdu'l-Hamid, Ottoman sultan, resisted the call of the Kingdom with all their power and utmost despotism, yet the call of the Kingdom grew louder day by day while those two bloodthirsty, tyrannical monarchs were left frustrated and disappointed.   AB00536

One of their misgivings is that the true One has always been oppressed and wronged. What has this to do with the matter? Yes, initially the Cause of God has always been denied but with utmost divine aid and assistance the Lord has ever been the protector and savior of the righteous.   ABU1597

So great is their waywardness that when meeting Thy loved ones, they shake their heads in derision of Thy Cause and say: "Where is your Lord Whom ye mention in the daytime and in the night season? Where is He to be found Whom ye call your Sovereign, to Whom ye summon all men to turn?"  BH02871

They transgressed and deviated and oppressed and dealt unjustly and objected and mocked and cast aside, then wailed and cried out and lamented and appealed and complained and wept and protested and spoke and fabricated and accused and called out in woe and poured forth like a torrent.  AB12172

Thou seest, O my God, the onslaught of the enemies and the assault of the people of hatred. They have attacked Thy wronged servants and pounced like savage wolves upon Thy slaves. They have lined up in thousands upon thousands, drawn their swords, and filled with hatred Thy loved ones  AB04234

Among the people are those who have turned towards Him and those who have turned away, those who have hesitated and those who have hastened, those who have responded and those who have chosen silence for themselves, and those who have taken vain imaginings as their god instead of God.   BH05261

They stated that they had designed the plan in this way because they feared going to Shiraz any earlier might provoke the foes and enemies to act and prevent all from attaining Our presence. It was even asserted that, despite such caution, the enemies caused disturbances along the way.  BH11877

His Imperial Majesty - may God, glorified and exalted be He - extended his protection for the sake of God, and this protection has caused an increase in the rancor and hatred of the ignorant ones of the earth. From every direction they are occupied with deception, trickery and schemes.  BH05904

hosts of bats with their pomp and circumstance attacked from all directions, hoping to veil that manifest Light from the eyes of those near unto God... When they proved powerless to resist with proofs, they plotted the Ancient Beauty's journey and employed a hundred thousand deceptions  AB00427

You see the oppression of the ignorant ones, the aggression of the rebellious ones, the assault of the sinful ones, and the deviation of the learned ones. They attack like fierce wolves and bark like despicable dogs and harm like savage beasts Your scattered sheep throughout the lands   AB02030

neither the clamor of the princes, nor the barking of the divines, nor the clamoring of the wayward could deter. He hath arisen before all faces with a power that hath shaken the pillars of tyranny when the Wondrous One appeared before the people with God's mighty and irrefutable Book.   BH00429

Hast thou ever heard of kings gathering together to destroy a single soul? ... Were all who are in the heavens and on earth to gather together to destroy and eliminate Me... The clamor of those on earth who have turned away is to Me but as the buzzing of flies or the braying of donkeys   BH09469

By God, O My brother, there hath come upon Me from the malevolent ones arrow after arrow, spear after spear, lance after lance, and sword after sword, whereat the eye of Ali in the Supreme Companion weepeth for Me, and then the eyes of the Messengers in a most holy and exalted station.   BH02082

Each day the cry of the oppressed is raised from every direction, and at every moment the fire of the wicked is ablaze. Yet the fire of the malice of the evil-doers hath had no effect upon the righteous, nor hath the cruelty of the impious kept them back from drawing nigh unto the Truth  BH00270

You mentioned the death and passing of certain wolves who appear as shepherds. Those souls who oppose the truth and deny the verses and reject the Lord and are blind to seeing the lights and deaf to hearing the mysteries - you will observe them all as dust, rather beneath layers of dust  AB03631

Whatsoever was manifested by the loved ones in that land during the days when the fire of hatred was ablaze...being wronged wafteth therefrom...Being wronged is like the first ornament for the temple of man, and like a crown for the head of all who dwell within the realm of possibility.   BH04110

Were their oppressors to be asked: "Wherefore have ye oppressed them and held them in bondage in Baghdad and elsewhere? What injustice have they committed? Whom have they betrayed? Whose blood have they spilled, and whose property have they plundered?" they would know not what to answer.  BH07689

The members of the Investigation Commission made secret inquiries from strangers and relatives, but they did not ask anyone impartial. All their investigations were through the assistance of the honored brother and they completed their mission according to his instructions and departed.   AB00693

Yet when the light of the Most Great Luminary shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the Ancient Lord's will, they committed such acts as no oppressor had ever committed since the beginning of creation. They issued death sentences against One Whom they had remembered day and night.  BH05028

The Tongue of My Grandeur in the Most Great Prison doth once again in this moment testify that thou didst bear hardships in the path of thy Lord, and there befell you from the oppressors that which caused the hearts of those near unto God to tremble and the livers of the sincere to melt.   BH01522

The ignorant and oppressive group arose and sought conflict and strife, arraying the field of oppression with the hosts and armies of rebellion. "Whenever they kindle the fire of war, God extinguishes it." They held nothing back within their power and perpetrated every injury and cruelty.  AB00435

Among these missionaries was a woman who always exhibited great displeasure whenever she saw me. One day I chanced to meet her in a merchant's shop when a certain Jewish Bahai happened to be there. I said to her, "You are very much displeased with me, but do you know how much I love you?"  ABU0454

The Supreme Pen hath revealed wondrous and exalted verses equivalent to all the previous Books, and hath likewise made manifest clear proofs. Nevertheless, an unjust people turned away and pronounced sentence of death upon Him. When sovereign might prevented this, they cast Him into prison.  BH07794

The Wronged One hath stood before all faces and summoned all unto God, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Among the people are those who have turned away, and those who have denied, and those who have unjustly pronounced His death-sentence, whereat every discerning soul hath lamented.   BH08390

All that hath befallen you and all that ye have heard from the deniers and opposers in the path of Truth hath been recorded and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen...for the misguided lie in wait in their ambush, ready to prevent God's loved ones from Him and deprive them of the water of life  BH02106

They have committed what none before them committed, even violating God's sanctity among His servants - yet they have only harmed themselves, though they perceive it not. Thus have We taken from them the spirit of understanding and left them in barren wastes, wherein they wander distracted.  BH02102

Thou seest, O My Lord, one of the Leaves grown out of the Tree of Thy Oneness and the mighty stock of Thy Singleness, surrounded by unbelievers, men and women alike...Protect her then from the stones of the suspicions of other women and from the darts of the vain imaginations of the sinful.  BH04427

However, the reports that arrived each contradicted the other regarding some of the oppressions inflicted, and from the Most Exalted Pen there flowed and was revealed that which corresponded to what they had mentioned, the signs and fruits of which have appeared and shall appear every day.   BH01422

The heedless ones desire to veil the effulgences of the lights of the divine Sun of Manifestation. Far, far from it! Say: O ye ignorant ones! What profit did the former people gain from their calumnies and lies, what bounty did they obtain, and what did they achieve on the Day of Judgment?   BH00540

Would they be content to see that which would waste the Cause of God in all else after it hath been exalted to such heights that all in the kingdom of names acknowledged its power, all in the realm of might confessed its sovereignty, the very essence of divinity was moved by its appearance   BH00455

Today the world's gaze is extended to the lives of the Baha'is: when they find a believer committing an evil deed, they may imagine such to be the deed of all the Baha'is or permitted by the Founder of the Cause. Thus they may judge the whole community by the misdeeds of one of its members.  ABU2799

They attacked Thy servant with fierce assault, drew a sharp sword against Thy bondsman, aimed arrows at me, pierced me with spears, tore my flesh with their teeth, cried out in woe, raised lamentations, wailed like captives, and complained to every friend and foe, slandering this weak one.   AB01493

"Despite this, the earthworms think they can demolish this mighty edifice and conceal the brilliant rays of this manifest Light. They wish to turn others away from the song of the nightingale of faithfulness and make them intimate companions of the crow and raven of the furnace of cruelty."  AB00990

The Sheikh ul-Islam of the Caucasus, having observed in these days that the Word of God has been exalted in those regions and the fragrance of the All-Merciful has been diffused, has become inflamed with the fire of jealousy and, in opposition to the truth, has concocted certain statements   AB11858

Dost thou not witness, O Pen, what a clamour the hypocrites have raised throughout the land, and what a tumult the wicked and ungodly have provoked? And this notwithstanding that thou didst reveal but an infinitesimal glimmer of the mysteries of thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious.   BH01010

Most of mankind have strayed far from truth, and the mortal world hath so deluded them that they have deemed the Reformer of the world to be a corrupter. They have turned away from light and cleaved unto darkness. They have accepted not a single word from the mine and dawning-place of truth.  BH11626

The heretical mujtahid named Hassan deemed the killing of the friends praiseworthy and issued a fatwa. Thus, due to the evil influence of that miscreant, government officials fell into inflicting this torment; otherwise, that hypocrite would have killed and plundered all the divine friends.   AB00071

O Lord! Take the reins of their pride in the grasp of Thy power, and the bridles of their rebellion in the right hand of Thy will. Aid the oppressed with Thy hosts, then protect them from the evil of Thine enemies who have denied Thee and Thy signs, and who have risen to frustrate Thy Cause.   BH00405

If they publicly declare that racial, religious and national bias must cease and that the Standard of Peace must be upheld, they will be greatly persecuted because the old religion is full of prejudice. Should they attempt to fast and pray according to the new Laws, they will not be allowed.   ABU1623

the pen of oppression of every unjust one galloped in the field of rejection against the One of Hidden Favors... Although in the eyes of those with insight, the contents of those pages are nonsense and their meanings are children's games, yet to the ignorant, words of unbelief are like faith   AB11669

Soon the corrupting ones will become known and be disgraced before all. Praise be to God that before the royal throne and in the presence of the Prime Minister it has become known and clear that the transgressors and corruptors are strangers, not those familiar with this oppressed community.   AB11829

The ignorant ones of that land who are known as divines arose in clamor. The dust of their suppositions and imaginings surrounded that holy and blessed city. Glory be to God! Until when will they turn away and object and say what they do not understand and speak of what they do not comprehend?  BH00129

Yet the people remain in manifest remoteness. They behold the sun, yet deny it - nay, they are of the wrongdoers. They have wronged their own selves in the days of God and wronged those who hastened unto the Most Great Ocean when they discovered the fragrance of God, the Mighty, the All-Wise.   BH10482

That blessed village was always engaged in defense against the ignorant people and never had peace. Since they were incapable and helpless in presenting proofs, they would resort to weak weapons which are characteristic of the incapable and helpless - they would attack with arrows and swords.   AB01740

Such hath been the state that the fragrances of discord and dissension from those who profess loyalty have risen to such a degree that the atmosphere of the horizons hath become such that the Ancient Beauty hath determined to veil the effulgence of His peerless Beauty behind the veils of glory   BH03020

There hath befallen Us at the hands of the oppressors that which hath caused the dwellers of the Most Exalted Paradise to lament and the Faithful Spirit to cry out. The people have perpetrated that which hath rent asunder the vitals of existence and caused the tears of the sincere ones to flow.  BH07927

Some have imagined that through the shedding of blood and the persecutions visited upon the friends the wounds inflicted upon hearts would be healed. Far, far from the truth! Rather, from every drop a new creation is brought forth, and from every affliction countless bounties are made manifest.  BH01085

My God, my God! They have drawn their swords and gathered in thousands and attacked Thy sincere servants in every land, border and frontier. They have killed the men, plundered the properties, orphaned the children, taken the women captive, burned the dwellings and made them into a barren plain  AB04907

Ye have been forced to leave your homes by reason of what hath befallen you. Verily your Lord, the All-Merciful, is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Nothing whatsoever escapeth His knowledge, to this every discerning mystic doth testify. What aileth Me that I behold the wolf pursuing My sheep?  BH11605

There hath befallen Us in the path of God that which befell certain of My loved ones in that place. The dwellers of Paradise have lamented at what hath befallen you at the hands of those who have changed God's blessing into ingratitude and caused their people to dwell in the abode of perdition.   BH04104

The Wronged One does not complain of tribulations, nor of what hath befallen the friends in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds. Know thou that the Son of the Wolf hath devoured sheep from among the flock, and the Oppressor hath hamstrung the She-Camel of God before the faces of all peoples.  BH11758

Regarding Safi 'Ali Shah, since some of the divine friends in Tehran had written that his followers had obtained this refutation and were boasting about it in gatherings and assemblies and mocking the Cause, and they insisted that an answer be written, Mirza Husayn Shirazi wrote something brief.  AB00523

I have witnessed in the prison that which I love not to witness and have heard that which I love not to hear. To this testifieth He with Whom are the treasuries of wisdom and utterance. That hath befallen Me at which all things have lamented, yet the people are wrapped in heedlessness and veils.   BH00286

"The despotic king of Persia with the legions of his 'ulama arose against Him and inflicted the severest persecution upon Him. They imprisoned Baha'u'llah and killed His followers. The oppression intensified to such a degree that all those who dared obey Baha'u'llah would lose life and property."  ABU0521

Truly you have endured many hardships and experienced the ultimate in oppression and injustice, and heard the taunts and reproaches of enemies, and were always in danger in chains and fetters. But this is the most great and glorious bounty - that you bore tribulations and afflictions in His path.  AB01425

By God the Truth, I know not how to recount what befell Me on the day he sought to kill Me, and on the day he complained of Me, and on the day he sent his wife before the rulers where she complained of this Youth, that they might decree for him that which would satisfy the belly of the greedy one   BH03251

After the spread of this matter, such an uproar arose in this land that cannot be described. The children of the household were in distress for some time. The situation reached such a point that they completely blocked the water channel leading to the household, lest poison be placed in the water.  BH04610

According to what is known, the opponents in Yazd intend by whatever means to stir up sedition and create corruption. Even Siyyid 'Ali and his supporters aim to create circumstances such that even the kind Governor would be unable to maintain protection - meaning there would be a general uprising.  AB03456

Despite all that love, conduct and forbearance - when they took two points(?) of the sacred writings entrusted to me, I did not bring it up to them, hoping they would become aware and return them. In the face of all these difficulties and injuries, I stood alone and raised the banner of the Cause   ABU1260

Fierce wolves and wretched dogs and savage beasts have attacked Thy loved ones in Thy kingdom. They have shed blood, severed limbs, burned bodies, plundered possessions, set fire to homes, and violated - nay, utterly destroyed - even infants, suckling babes, and sheltered women in their chambers.   AB01460

He regarded these oppressed ones as mere beasts, and due to his hatred and enmity, affairs became difficult from every direction. However, by God's grace and favor, his tyranny returned upon himself, and he departed this land humiliated and defeated. Yet some traces of his evil deeds still remain.   BH01173

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of glory and detachment that from the beginning of creation until now such tyranny hath not been inflicted upon anyone...And then the first token of love shown to this Wronged One was that they arose to slay Me and exerted their utmost to cut down the divine Tree.   BH02200

The harm inflicted upon this Wronged One hath outwardly exceeded human capacity; nevertheless, it did not prevent God from His purpose nor hinder the exaltation of His Word. Your honor is aware of the calumnies of the calumniators, the oppression of the oppressors, and the lies of the barking ones.  BH00712

When he became known as a standard-bearer of this revelation, the fanatical clergy arose against him and incited the mob to persecute him. Mir Alam Khan also followed the crowd and manifested the greatest opposition. The affairs reached to such a height that they finally banished him from the town.  ABU0074

Nevertheless, they have imprisoned His Holiness Ismu'llah Mahdi - upon him be the Most Glorious Glory - without any proof or evidence. He is among those souls who sought only pure good for all from the Truth, exalted be His glory, and not even a mustard seed's worth of harm came from him to anyone.   BH00403

that wronged one fell under the hands of an unjust and ignorant people, and on account of the severity of the blows and injuries he sustained, he drained the honeyed cup of martyrdom... They believe that shedding the blood of the loved ones is the path to God and that these dear ones deserve to die.   AB01479

Although in the beginning of the Cause they were abased and wandering, and bereft of all worldly powers and affairs - each day a group would become scattered and distressed in plains and deserts from the assault of enemies, and a band would become homeless from the oppression of the people of hatred   ABU1169

The oppressors have slain the descendants of the Apostle, yet make mention of Him at morn and eventide. The kingdom of earth and heaven is bewildered at their deeds. Erelong shall the blasts of chastisement seize them from every direction. He shall seize them even as He seized those who preceded them.  BH00117

In truth, in such severe days and in the face of opposition from obstinate adversaries, the steadfastness you have shown is worthy of praise from the Concourse on High. But you must observe the utmost wisdom, for the oppressors lie in wait and the thoughtless are filled with intense hatred and malice.  AB11794

Those who desired to extinguish the light of God are among the most lost in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds. Say: O heedless ones! Where are your fathers and your ancestors? Where are earth's tyrants and its pharaohs? Where are the caesars of the kingdom with their ornaments and their palaces?   BH00820

Grieve not for what hath befallen thee from those who have denied God's favor, His grace, His bounty and His gift. They are engaged in a great scheme to harm the Wronged One. Glory be to God! They are so consumed by the fire of greed, transgression, covetousness and passion that it is beyond reckoning.  BH00299

O Afnan! The deniers have appeared with calumnies unprecedented, and despite their greed, avarice, vain desire, and betrayal of people's wealth, they still claim truthfulness. They have joined the lying Sheikh Muhammad. That heedless one has imagined those two liars to be people of faith and devotion.   BH01093

The world hath been created for the service of the Cause. Whosoever hath turned thereunto hath attained to that which is intended. 'The intention of the believer is better than his deed' applieth to this station, inasmuch as he hath intended to turn toward the prison and engage in service to the Cause.  BH00096

The pagan priests, and the Jewish and Christian divines, have committed the very things which the divines of the age, in this Dispensation, have committed, and are still committing. Nay, these have displayed a more grievous cruelty and a fiercer malice. Every atom beareth witness unto that which I say.   BH01957

By God, at every moment I was struck by the arrows of discord from the hypocrites, and at every instant was struck by the swords of hatred, and none knew of this save God your Lord and a few numbered souls. Then they cast Me into the well of darkness in this prison while they rejoiced within themselves.  BH02152

Despotism ruined Persia. Despotism withered away the genius of Persia. Despotism extorted the incomes of the people unjustly. Despotism made the inhabitants of Persia poor and destitute. Despotism hastened into the arena of martyrdom 20.000 Baha'is. Despotism played a havoc upon the resources of Persia.  ABU0390

The Holy Land is disturbed due to harmful publications in Egyptian newspapers and some other newspapers, and the writing of numerous books against the Cause of God, and great calumnies from false persons...the storm of calumnies and opposition and attacks from all directions is continuous and successive  AB02055

"The doubts of Iran's divines have debarred the world from the Goal of all existence. They cling to vain imaginings while considering themselves people of certitude. After more than twelve hundred years, the fruit of their deeds was what you heard - they all issued verdicts to shed the most pure blood."   BH01621

He who arose before Our presence to write, and for the protection of the Blessed Tree from the swords of hatred and malice We mentioned him according to the measure decreed, stood up in hypocrisy and intended to cut down the Tree. The idolaters have taken him as their lord. Fie upon them and their deeds!  BH04904

Today the cawing and croaking of the polytheists who call themselves by the name of truth is raised up. We previously made mention of these matters and informed all. The treacherous appears in the name of trustworthy, the false one in the name of the truthful, and the denier in the guise of the believer.  BH09435

Know then, O Rida, that when the idolators witnessed how the Cause had been uplifted, the fire of jealousy and hatred was kindled in their breasts and they sought to scheme against their Lord's Cause, that they might instill hatred of the Youth in the hearts of the believers. Thus was the matter ordained.  BH08159

From one direction comes the onslaught of external enemies, from another the cruelty and enmity of the unfaithful ones...especially enduring the oppression of the unfaithful ones who through all manner of intrigues and temptations, through hidden individuals, cast doubts and every day destroy some pillar.  AB01570

He asked if it was possible for anyone to attain His presence. They said yes, but with great difficulty. Then he thought for about half an hour and raised his head saying, "I and those like me claim to be manifestations of truth, but it must be said truthfully that Baha'u'llah is the true Manifestation."   ABU2237

You have surely seen the treatises of doubts from the people of languor, and now Jamal Parvabal is also continuously publishing meaningless papers and making false accusations against this servant that even the mindless understand such base expressions are fitting for those lying mouths, not this servant.  AB01649

The Most Exalted Pen has ever been moved to make mention of you. Beseech ye God that there may appear from you that which befitteth His days. Today the mightiest sword in the world hath been and remaineth the fear of God. O My loved ones! Aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, through deeds and goodly character.  BH00470

The people of Iran have throughout ages and centuries been occupied with the remembrance and praise of the Truth, yet on the Day of His Manifestation they did what no other people have done. From their pulpits they curse and revile the Truth, exalted be His glory, while speaking in praise of His servants.   BH00353

The friends in the land of Iran are captive to oppressors and afflicted at the hands of every ignorant one...Night and day they think only of how, like a nightmare, they can become a heavy burden upon souls, and like a pestilence, utterly destroy and eliminate the people of the nation from every direction.  AB03994

Unquestionably all the people, especially the leaders of religions and the missionaries shall loosen the tongue of ridicule and contumely about you and they will become the enemies of your souls on account of your love for His Holiness Baha'u'llah and will strive to heap upon you ever kind of persecution.   AB03300

The Persian Bahais have endured excessive hardships. Their ordeals cannot be described. They have been imprisoned, some of them not once but many times. They have been bastinadoed. They have been persecuted. Their possessions have been confiscated. Many of them have been obliged to pay exorbitant tributes.  ABU1245

By this means did the idolaters desire to turn faces away from turning toward the countenance of Thy oneness, and to prevent the servants from beholding the horizon of Thy unity, that they might thereby extinguish the lamp of Thy oneness amongst Thy creation and quench the fire of Thy love in Thy dominion.   BH03360

When the Hand of Power raised the standards of wisdom and utterance, and the Morn of Manifestation unfurled the banner of divine knowledge, the people rose in opposition. Among them were those who denied Me, those who calumniated My Person, and those who pronounced the verdict for the shedding of My blood.   BH00633

He raised a clamor throughout all regions and caused the foundations of the people of discord to quake. Now a few deprived ones have cooked up a vain fancy that they might remove this life-giving intoxication from the minds of those inebriated at the feast of the Covenant. Alas! Alas! How deluded they are!   AB06299

The sheep of God are surrounded by wolves, having had and having no guardian or protector save God. Your honor must act with the utmost wisdom and hold fast to that which is needful in this day. First, in towns and cities where the fire of sedition is ablaze, it is not permissible to turn in that direction.   BH00743

The faithless hunters have aimed at the Most Exalted Station, and the oppressors of the earth with swords of hatred have intended harm against the Temple of Eternity. They desired to extinguish the light of God through their calumnies, but the Wronged One stands unveiled and uncovered before the multitudes.   BH00494

In the Land of Ya there occurred that which caused the denizens of the Kingdom to raise their cries and lamentations. Glory be to God! What heedlessness hath encompassed them and what doubt hath appeared, that they have regarded supreme loss as profit and have imagined the most grievous illness to be healing.  BH00858

The world is opposed to this Cause to such an extent that it striveth with utmost diligence to extinguish its light. However, God hath, through the scratching of the Pen and to their dismay, assisted His Cause and exalted it. Neither the forces of the world nor its hosts can resist this power and ascendancy.   BH00321

The heedlessness of people hath reached such a state that they cannot distinguish shadow from light, and now they turn away from and complain about that which they themselves were seeking with utmost desire in days and nights gone by. Fie upon them, upon their fidelity, their station, and their remembrances!   BH00352

"Say: O people of the Book! do ye not disavow us only because we believe in God, and in what He hath sent down to us." Evil plotters are enemies of [the noble ones] For such is God's method carried into effect of old, and such will it remain in the future, and no change can ye find in God's method of dealing.  AB03033

As much as I caught them, punished them, banished them and killed them, their flag was raised higher. There is no doubt that this flag (Christian), will be raised in the future, and our flag will come down. Therefore it is better that we remedy the past before our flag is defeated and we come under that flag.  ABU0609

During these successive years, in every land they have repeatedly martyred ones from this oppressed community, yet they did not retaliate and left it to God. The martyrdom of this oppressed one which occurred in these days is a true testimony to the oppression of this community and the tyranny of the enemies.   BH00754

Where are they who drew their swords and arose in tyranny in such wise as caused the dwellers of the cities of justice and equity to lament? Throughout ages and centuries, the transgressors and oppressors have perpetrated that which caused every person of insight to weep and every possessor of a heart to wail.  BH00699

Concerning what you wrote about the severity in the prison-city, that which was destined has come to pass, and praise be to God, in these days the fragrance of security has wafted, and the corruption, enmity and wickedness of those impure souls has become evident and manifest to most of the people of the city.  BH01265

And the amazing thing is this, that the most effective means whereby this light of truth is safeguarded and protected is the onslaught of the enemies, grievous ordeals and manifold hardships. The globe of this lamp is the tempestuous winds and the safety of this ship lieth in the violence of tumultuous waves.   AB04278

Despite complete sincerity and goodwill and love for all humanity and obedience to and loyalty toward the sovereign and government, we have become the target of calumnies from my brother who, with his associates, submitted to the Ottoman court a severe document filled with every kind of accusation and slander.  AB00406

The burden of meaningless words from the learned hath deprived the ears of the servants from hearkening to the melody of God and prevented them from hearing the songs of the Nightingale of eternity. The thick veils of conjecture have left eyes bereft of beholding the light of His countenance on this divine Day.  BH00341

They have endured every hardship and tribulation, remained patient under the taunts of enemies, and shown fortitude when faced with the reproaches of the foolish...yet despite this they are surrounded by the people of hatred who launch fierce attacks against them and constantly increase in rancor and animosity.  AB00789

The wolves of the earth have surrounded the divine sheep from every direction. They have hamstrung the divine She-Camel and have stretched forth the hand of transgression against the Crimson Ark. And finding this Wronged One without helper or assistant, they have from every quarter set their designs against Him.  BH00143

But, as the people of the West are still children in the Cause and have not perfect knowledge of its reality and validity, the nakazeen thought it to be an easy prey and availed themselves of this opportunity for laying doubts and suspicions, speaking false words, divulging seditious calumnies among the people.   AB02012

Today the court is in the hands of wolves and demons, meaning the oppressive and hostile clergy who, like savage beasts and venomous snakes, attack the living-hearted friends, the gazelles of the All-Merciful's wilderness. Behold the severed heads, behold the torn hearts, behold the birds of souls taken flight.   AB07505

However, in barren soil the seeds of counsel yielded no fruit and produced no growth. In place of trustworthiness appeared treachery, and in place of contentment, rebellion. We beseech Him, exalted be He, to assist those who have turned away to turn towards Him, and those who have calumniated to speak the truth.   BH01221

Consider the divines and what they have committed in My days. We created them and strengthened them to exalt My Cause, yet they pronounced judgment against My Self and against those whose sanctity was attested by the Concourse on High...In their vain imaginings they intended to extinguish the light of God's Cause  BH01681

In these days in India, especially around Delhi, Punjab and Lahore, the opponents, particularly the Qadianis, have engaged in publishing fabrications and have authored treatises attributing every calumny to this Cause, printing and distributing papers containing the doubts of the Covenant-breakers and falsehoods   AB03380

Certain souls in the past, while outwardly in accord yet inwardly in discord, closed the door of divine mercy and opened the gates of idle fancies and vain imaginings to the faces of helpless servants. They adorned themselves with the garment of knowledge yet were accounted among the ignorant in the sight of God.   BH07550

"The Abu-Jahl of this age hath pronounced judgment against Muhammad the Apostle of God, and the Samiri against Him Who conversed with God, and the Jews against the Spirit, the Glorious, the Resplendent. And the people of the Furqan have risen against the Revealer of the Bayan, and the viper hath risen against God"  BH03745

According to what has been heard, certain powers such as England and others made insinuations to the Imperial Court and strove with utmost effort until the Imperial decree for confinement in the fortress was issued. It is not known how the Protestants achieved this aim of theirs, as there were no grounds for this.  AB00191

The oppressors have made God's Cause the object of their derision, their sport and their play. They are occupied with their own desires, turning away from the dawning-places of the lights of the Day-Star of certitude. Thus have their souls deluded them with vain imaginings, and today they are numbered with the dead.   BH00575

The spirits of such vile and impure ones are known by their evil-commanding nature, while Satan himself is characterized by the self-accusing spirit in the second degree. In truth, the fire of his self was derived from that fire - such as he are first, and Satan is second. May God protect us and you from their evil.   BH00307

Lost indeed are they who denied the days of God and turned away from the Truth, following every remote polytheist. Particularly have these faithless people followed Hadi Dowlat-Abadi and Baqir Isfahani, who dwells in the land of Ta, though these two heedless ones are unaware of and veiled from the root of the Cause.   BH00300

Do they imagine they can extinguish the fire kindled by the hand of Power and Might? Do they suppose they can put out the light which God hath caused to shine forth from the Supreme Horizon? Nay, by His very Self, the True One! They are impotent, they are the losers, they are the deniers, they are the transgressors.   BH01147

My purpose is this: That his honor Mirza Abul Fazl has written a treatise answering the criticisms of a London preacher. It is published in Chicago; each one of you should have a copy of that book, and read, memorize and ponder over it. Then when anybody advances any accusations or criticisms, you will be well armed.  ABU1952

"In the time of Moses, Pharaoh said, 'We will kill Moses, for he wishes to change our religion, and will be the cause of great damage to our land. Therefore, let us kill him soon, in order to protect our religion'. Now the people of Germany will say the same to you, that you have gone there to change their religion."  ABU1706

The wrongdoers martyred His Honor Aqa Siyyid Yahya with the worst torment, and in Sangsar they severely persecuted the Baha'is, and in Azerbaijan, Mirza Hasan, the faithless mujtahid who opposed the nationalists, issued a fatwa for the killing of all the friends. They also martyred two others with the worst torment.   AB01388

Until now we have been greatly oppressed. Suppose you have a bird in this room with all the doors and windows closed - the bird cannot fly. The Bahai cause has been like that bird, but now is the time of our freedom. The restrictions are removed. Now we must make an effort and the cause will make wonderful progress.   ABU2499

If those that have erred grievously were aware of the hidden mysteries of martyrdom, they would in no wise commit such deeds. However, God hath caused them to be tongue-tied and bereft of sight, with their minds and power of perception reduced to naught, in such wise that they deem a priceless benefit a grievous loss.  BH06788

No sooner had some measure of tranquility been established in the land than certain ignorant ones in every city laid claim to divinity. Thus from the year when the Most Great Light dawned above the horizon of Iraq until now, numerous souls have cast aside piety and raised the standards of rebellion and transgression.   BH00374

They measure that Cause which has had no likeness, equal or similitude by the stories of the first and the last ones, and in their own estimation consider themselves cautious in religion, unaware that all the Concourse on High and dwellers of the pavilions of the Most Exalted Paradise seek to be free from such souls.   BH08425

Although the darkness of the vain imaginings of the divines of the earth--those souls who are heedless of the Truth--hath encompassed the world, and the tyranny and oppression of rulers hath shaken the very foundations of all lands, and the deeds of the idolaters and transgressors have deprived hearts of their freshness  BH01291

Owing to the false reports forwarded to the Sublime Porte, many cablegrams were sent by Abdul Hamid to the Governor of Haifa to stop progress or watch its construction. Many spies were daily busy around this building, and the slightest move on the part of any of the laborers was reported to the military headquarters.   ABU2782

Today, whosoever has attained recognition and stands firm in the Cause - even if wisdom requires their physical absence - verily the reward of attaining His presence shall flow from the Most Exalted Pen concerning them. Whatever hardships they have borne in the path of Truth have not been, and shall never be, in vain.   BH00252

The oppressors have seized him and cast him into prison. Know ye that they are in manifest loss. The heedlessness of these ignorant ones hath reached such a pass that they reflect not upon the former and latter generations. They follow their vain desires and imagine themselves to be among those possessed of knowledge.   BH01393

The enemies of the Faith have been and still remain in ambush, and like unto the Shi'ih divines have arisen to lead the people astray. They have appeared with such guile and craftiness as hath never before been seen or heard. In these days some of the falsifiers have turned towards those regions and continue to do so.   BH06168

For some time now, the unacceptable deeds of the people of earth have materialized - sometimes in the form of cannons, sometimes as swords, sometimes appearing as fire in different lands. Most of the people in these lands are agitated, fearful and distressed. Tribulations have encompassed the earth from all directions.  BH03000

casting the wicked into the dark pit and the abyss of hatred and the flames of malice, on account of what their hands have wrought and how they have been remiss in their duty to God and distorted the Book of God and altered the Tablets of God and erased the Words of God. Lo! They are in grievous torment and humiliation  AB12348

But alas, certain souls became like thorny barriers in the path of seekers, and like useless weeds grew in the furnace of error and passion, depriving themselves and others of eternal grace. The good land brings forth its vegetation by permission of its Lord, while that which is corrupt brings forth nothing but thorns.  AB02633

O 'Ali-Akbar! The realm of divine knowledge hath been encompassed, and the cities of remembrance and recognition forbidden. The lamp of justice hath been beset by the winds of oppression, and the countenance of equity lieth in ambush, threatened by the wolves of tyranny. The polytheists have surrounded the monotheists.   BH01046

Praise be to Thee for having revealed unto Thy chosen ones that which was hidden from Thy servants and Thy creatures, and for having made known to them those who warred against Thy Self, disputed Thy proof, contended against Thy sovereignty, denied Thy signs, joined partners with Thy Being, and rejected Thy Revelation.   BH06192

The people of the Qur'an have risen against Us, and tormented Us with such a torment that the Holy Spirit lamented, and the thunder roared out, and the clouds wept over Us. Among the faithless is he who hath imagined that calamities can deter Baha from fulfilling that which God, the Creator of all things, hath purposed.  BH00347

They hear the call from the precincts of the Prison, yet they perceive not. When asked by what proof they have believed in God, they say "By the Qur'an," yet when We reveal unto them that which is greater than it, they disbelieve in the Witness and the Witnessed. Thus have their souls deluded them, and they know it not.   BH00849

O Muhammad! The monotheists of the world are encompassed by the hands of the polytheists. Cities and lands have been lost. We ask of God, and continue to ask, that He may grant strength and bestow power, that perchance the former glory may return, and that He may protect the monotheists and likewise the cities and lands.  BH01471

Nevertheless, without permission, a certain person arrived with one of the handmaidens. We banished him at that time. He returned and dwelt for a period in the surrounding areas, and for some time now hath entered this city. Each day he disputeth with one of the friends of God, engaging in conflict, cursing and reviling.   BH01630

Through their public teaching of the Baha'i Cause they became famous and the ignorant mob arose in their persecutions. Realizing how impossible it was to live in such fanatical communities both of them journeyed to Teheran and here also their open way of spreading the teachings made them odious in the sight of the public.  ABU0232

We counsel all to steadfastness, for the clamorous ones have been and are lying in wait for the monotheists and the sincere ones. Say: Should anyone come to you with the book of the netherworld and its pages, cast them behind you, then know that he is the clamorous one promised in the Books of God, the Mighty, the Loving.   BH04119

They have clung to perversion. Most are attached to vain imaginings and devoted to idle fancies. Hadi Dawlatabadi, like the deluded souls of the past, has occupied the helpless servants with those same vain imaginings. By the life of God! Neither are the eyes of such people worthy to behold, nor their ears worthy to hear.   BH03040

Know thou that in all the Tablets We promised the servants this Most Great Revelation. But when its appointed time drew nigh and He manifested Himself with all the signs and tokens, with power, majesty and sovereignty, most of the servants denied Him and turned away from Him, and were recorded in the Tablets as idolaters.   BH03029

Your honor knows well how much effort and endeavor we expended over limited years to remove corruption, conflict, disputation and the like, yet this mighty matter was in no way acceptable to Iran, for the country's leaders are preoccupied and have not pondered, even for a moment, upon the matters at hand, nor do they now.   BH00650

These are they who cast the Word of God behind their backs and contended with His loved ones and warred against His chosen ones, and were among those immersed in the ocean of heedlessness. Upon them shall be the vengeance of God, and He will torment them in a casket of fire and cause them to enter into the depths of hell.   BH03981

During this period, despite the daily threat of death for all - as Nasiri'd-Din Shah was constantly sending telegrams and the Iranian ambassador was constantly scheming, and after him Mirza Husayn Khan; and the ulama in Karbala declared holy war - despite that no night held hope of seeing morning, yet these were good days.  ABU0576

The Dove, beneath the talons of the enemies, calleth out at the highest pitch in such wise that the hosts of heedlessness cannot frighten It, nor can what hath befallen It from the wrongdoers prevent It. Reflect thou upon It and what hath befallen It from the people of hatred, and what It uttereth in the heaven of creation   BH00582

The winds of hatred have encompassed the Ark of Ba??a, by reason of that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought. How numerous the oppressors before thee who have arisen to quench the light of God, and how many the impious who murdered and pillaged until the hearts and souls of men groaned by reason of their cruelty!  BH00336

"For their property was pillaged; they were persecuted and abused; and in the end they were martyred. In Yazd on one day two hundred were killed and all their property was pillaged. Even the women and children were martyred. Some of them would even give sweets to their executioners so that their tongues might be sweetened."  ABU0950

The divine pavilion of Love is sent by these heedless ones into the infernal camp of hatred. The Canopy of Peace is forwarded to the battlefield of slaughter. The tabernacle of the oneness of the world of humanity is despatched to the scene of bloody hostilities. The tent of the Lord of Peace is offered to the lord of war.   ABU1791

For some time 'Abdu'l-Baha was forbidden to go out and deprived of attaining the Holy Threshold, and from every direction there was intense pressure and attacks from hostile people increasing day by day, until the situation became so constricted that the Most Great Prison came to lamentation and crying, wailing and moaning.  AB02370

Nevertheless, they have turned away from justice and forsaken equity, and with the utmost tyranny and oppression have cast His loved ones into prison. They have risen up to humiliate Him Who hath desired glory for all, and in their vain imaginings have determined to shake the edifice of God's Cause and obliterate its traces.  BH04615

You had written about the transgressions of the wretched Taqi, that like a wicked mule he is obstinate, unruly, stubborn and skittish, and his successive kicks strike at the souls of the free-minded. These scorpion-natured, snake-charactered, serpent-behaving souls - even the government and people are afflicted by their evil.  AB02882

For thirty years or more We have dwelt in the realms of the sublime State - may God preserve it from the evil of creation - and not so much as a mustard seed of any matter contrary to the Law of God hath appeared from these servants. Nevertheless, according to the people of Iran, they sent Us in utmost abasement to this land.   BH00589

When Christ appeared, all the powers tried to uproot His Cause. The governor as well as the people. Twelve times they were massacred. Most of the Christians were killed. Notwithstanding this, it continued to spread. Many people were killed, many houses were destroyed, people were imprisoned, but in spite of all this it spread.  ABU0636

Today in the arena of oppression none precedeth him. Reflect upon the grace and bounty of the Wronged One, and upon the wickedness of the people from the beginning of the Cause until now. We protected certain souls in such wise that none save God is aware thereof. The rejection of corruption led to the martyrdom of the Beloved.  BH00270

Afflictions have encompassed Me which none can reckon save God, the Knower of the unseen and the seen. The polytheists have gathered against Me from every direction with tyranny, to this do honored servants bear witness. Every harm hath been ordained for My person and every affliction for My Beauty, yet people do not understand.   BH00566

For forty years this community has been subjected to the lash of oppressors, to such an extent that even children have been slain. How many sons have been beheaded before their fathers' eyes! Homes and possessions have been plundered and pillaged. Yet not one from this community has uttered a word of protest or risen in defense.   BH00279

Yet ye have done unto His Self what neither the people of the Furqan did unto My Self, nor the concourse of the Jews unto the Spirit. Alas, alas, for the anguish of My heart and the lamentation of My soul for what hath befallen My Beloved at the hands of the idolaters! Fie upon you and upon your fidelity, O company of oppressors!  BH00297

Although ye have been exiled and removed from your native land, persecuted at the hands of the ungodly, deprived of your possessions by pillagers and plunderers, forced to witness your habitations laid to waste by oppressors, made targets for the darts of injustice from every direction, and taunted and tormented from every side.   AB01668

At such an hour do I have you in mind and heart. When I imagine the weight of chains upon thy frail neck floods of tears come to mine eyes. When I imagine the stocks that fetter thy feet my sorrow swells within me. And when I think of that dark and stygian gloom in which thou hast been bound a cry of anguish rises from my heart.   AB02192

We testify that they have wrought corruption in the land after its reformation, and rejected the blessing of tranquility after it had been established and spread through the justice of the Sovereign of the Kingdom and its Authority. They have slain him who believed in God, aided His Cause, and spoke His praise by night and by day.  BH11728

But the enemies have become a barrier, preventing the letters from the Word, and the Word from the Book, and the fruit from the Tree, and continue to do so. They are weak, unworthy of beholding, and deprived, unfit for attainment to the presence, for they have prevented all from the Most Great Ocean as a recompense for their deeds.  BH03947

In the days when the foundations of all were disturbed and shaken through the power of oppression... Then souls who were fearful, agitated and concealed behind a veil came forth with the sword of rejection and made for the truth. The curse of God be upon the wrong-doing people! Now they strive and struggle to lead the weak astray.   BH04012

The Covenant-breakers took it from us and wouldn't even leave me a room where I could change my sweat-soaked shirt in summer...Then they incited Abdul-Ghani Baydun against me who claimed right of pre-emption...So he destroyed the guesthouse wall and I rebuilt it. He destroyed it again and I rebuilt it. He destroyed it a third time.  ABU1263

This land has not yet attained tranquility, nor will it soon... Be not grieved by the clamor of the people and the words of those who have no knowledge even of their own fathers... Do people imagine they can extinguish what God hath kindled with the hands of power and might? Nay, by His chosen Self! But the people do not understand.  BH01773

The Prime Minister Mirza 'Ali-Asghar Khan had embraced the Faith, but when it became public, he withdrew. The reason is: when the friends see that someone prominent has become a Baha'i, they spread the news, which causes complications for the new convert and results in the authorities, the 'ulama and the people arising against him.   ABU0855

They attack us like ferocious lions of the wilderness, killing men, assaulting children and dishonoring maidens, looting possessions, destroying homes, burning bodies, casting stones day and night, exhuming the dead from their graves, severing their limbs and feeding them to the all consuming fire to become ashes blown to the wind.   AB00573

In this time when the rebellious are in tumult and oppressors are striving in every land - they have stretched forth the hand of aggression and raised the banner of tyranny and enmity, attacking the oppressed in every region...In Isfahan they raised an uproar, in Rasht they caused a tremor, in Qazvin they arose in manifest oppression  AB01573

And the servants who claim to believe in God, the Mighty, the Most High, the Great, have committed what neither Nimrod, nor Pharaoh, nor the First and Second committed, for they did not openly war with God, nor did they calumniate Him, and though they were oppressors, they did not seek to cause confusion among God's assured servants.   BH00710

Such calumnies have reached Us as have caused the Spirit to lament and every trustworthy and truthful one to cry out. I do not complain of My grief and sorrow. I am patient in tribulation and render thanks unto God, the Lord of this wondrous Day. I have borne afflictions in His path and witnessed that which none other hath witnessed.   BH00561

"perhaps, God willing, it will affect hearts and the helpless will remain protected and preserved from the cruelty and oppression of the oppressors. And if that land and region becomes restrictive for you, and the attacks of fierce wolves and predatory beasts continue one after another, and rest and comfort are lost, move to Ishqabad"  AB00711

These calumnies have occurred repeatedly, and finally it became clear that the divine friends are innocent and free from such satanic whisperings, and remain steadfast in their loyalty to government and nation. The purpose of such documents and fabrications is to deny the clear signs and shed the pure blood of the people of salvation.   AB00371

for years they have tried through various schemes to create a breach in public opinion but saw no fruit except disappointment and despair...Consider what painful events occurred in the Christian era, yet the divine lamp grew brighter. "They desire to extinguish God's light with their mouths but God refuses except to perfect His light."  AB12151

Finding themselves overcome, they hold to the means of the weak ones, and engaged themselves in rending asunder (the lambs of God) like wolves. This is the condition of the weak and baffled. Finding himself devoid of proof, weak in argument and destitute of true power, he resorts to the animal qualities and sheds the blood of the pure.  AB06810

The heedless people have regarded the Dawning-Place of the world's reformation as a source of corruption. So intoxicated are they with the wine of self that neither the blast of the trumpet, nor the sound of the bugle, nor the enduring proofs, nor the manifest shining evidences, nor the revealed verses have brought them to their senses.  BH01019

Consider the lack of understanding of these souls - they themselves say that when the Qa'im appears, He will speak a word that will cause the nobles of the earth to flee. Yet they have not reflected in the least what that word might be that would transform acceptance into rejection. Fie upon them and upon what their hands have wrought!   BH00298

"Beware lest the thorns of the enemies prevent thee from the mention of thy Lord, the Most Glorious. By God! Their glory is abasement and their wealth is poverty, but they understand not. Their portion in this world is as the portion of animals, and their pleasure is as the pleasure of serpents. Woe unto them for what they have wrought!"  BH11392

I beseech Thee by those whom the idolaters have made captive in Thy path to send down from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will purify the people of Thy dominion. By Thy Self! Then will they all lament for what they have wrought against the Manifestation of Thine Essence, and the Source of Thy power, and the Treasury of Thy mysteries   BH07125

a group of the frozen and dead have imagined they can prevent the Most Great Sea from its advancing waves, or deprive the Most Glorious Orb of its dawn-time rays, or deny the horizons of nations from the continuous outpourings of this daybreak. Vain indeed are their deeds. These fragments of clay intend Through envy to cover up Your sun   AB07585

Despite all this, those who are lukewarm in spirit shout: where is the light? Those souls who like the dead have buried themselves in the pits of doubt and suspicion cry: where is this radiance? And those benighted ones confined in their own gloom bewail their perdition. May God punish them and cast them out in the Great Day of Reunion!   AB03160

The insinuations of the opposers and the doubts of the transgressors did not prevent them from the Lord of the Day of Judgment. Despite being surrounded by enemies from all directions, the oppression of tyrants, and the waves of armies of wickedness and vice, they were not deprived of hearing the Call raised from the Most Exalted Horizon.  BH00131

The Supreme Pen has in scriptures and tablets informed all of the appearance of the cawers, the heedless ones, and the atheists. Now from certain directions the cawing is raised...Pay no attention to the fly and its buzzing, nor to the crow and its cawing. Soon they shall return to their abode as returned those who wronged in those days.   BH02618

the Commission of Investigation made most thorough inquiries and investigations, but what the enemies - who are the harmful and deceitful companions of Mirza Muhammad Ali - said was according to his instructions... Consider that for thirty-six years we have been confined in this prison, withdrawn in a corner occupied with our own affairs   AB00755

Concerning the corruption of the mischief-makers about which you wrote, that they have seized the opportunity and spare no effort to harm the divine sheep - for fifty years they have been engaged in this work. What fruit have they seen? What benefit have they gained except manifest loss? And verily Our hosts shall be triumphant over them.  AB10896

He has no share from the chalice of mercy, and no portion from the cup of justice and equity. Not for a moment has he seen this servant, nor gathered in any assembly, nor sought companionship for an hour. Yet he has taken up the pen of oppression, writing with the blood of the oppressed, and has spoken certain meaningless words to a group.  BH00746

O Haydar-'Ali! At every moment when signs of the exaltation of the Cause appeared somewhat, the unfair ones of the world emerged from behind the veils and did that which ye have heard and seen. Where is fairness and where is justice? Were it not for the Glory (Baha), who could stand before the faces, and who could speak amidst the parties?  BH11577

What fault had the Primal Point in the sight of the Ancient Beauty? What did the Seal of the Prophets do? Why did the Spirit ascend to the fourth heaven? Likewise the chosen ones and companions of those Daysprings of God's Cause. You have many companions, but the Hand of God's Power, exalted be His glory, is occupied with taking and giving.  BH11701

"I know not, O my God, for what reason they have risen up to oppress me, and by what proof they have turned aside from Him Who is the Day-Spring of Thy signs... They have so grievously wronged me that the Lote-Tree of Thy Revelation moaneth, and the inmates of the Tabernacle of Thy majesty and the dwellers of the cities of Thy names lament."  BH01974

Whenever upheaval appeared, he departed to another city, while this Wronged One stood firm before all faces. When by divine power the effulgences of the Luminary of the Merciful's utterance shone upon every city, the deniers emerged from behind the veil and committed that which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise to weep and lament.   BH01963

Abdu'l-Baha said that immediately after the Ascension of Jesus Christ, people began to write books against Him, and very soon historians began to say that no such person as Jesus Christ had ever lived. That it was all an invention of St. Peter and other disciples! We must remember this, for soon many books would be written against our Faith.  ABU0378

How many nations, how many religions, how many individuals whose aim is to stop the progress of the Cause, to bring it down from its station of sublimity, to retard its influence and to cast it headlong into the abyss of degradation! Alas! They are not aware that the Cause of God shall overcome all these hindrances and control these forces.   ABU1465

For a time they spread rumors that Mirza Abu'l-Qasim the Custodian had stolen funds and gone to 'Akka. And some time before, when his eminence Afnan H, upon him be My glory and loving-kindness, turned towards this land, after sending a telegram they reported that the aforementioned person had stolen ninety liras and some papers and departed.   BH03041

Therefore ponder what God hath shown thee in thy vision, then preserve it in the treasuries of thy heart and relate it not to those who have turned away and waxed proud, whose sole concern in this world is but to amass counted coins. When We impart unto them any mention, they turn away their faces - such is the measure of their understanding.  BH00777

For nearly thirty years, God, exalted be His glory, has forbidden all from engaging in corruption, contention and conflict. How many afflictions have befallen His loved ones, yet none has protested. Nevertheless, they have not yet desisted and are constantly engaged in oppression. The source of this oppression has been and will be the clergy.  BH00044

All the peoples and factions of the world are attacking with all their might, assaulting with all their power and force, striving day and night to destroy and obliterate the people of God. The blameworthy and vacillating people too, through various internal and external means, are engaged in destroying the Cause of God and harming holy souls.  AB08736

For twelve hundred years they considered themselves the best of all sects, the saved community and favored nation, yet when God's test appeared they proved more wicked than all other sects and more rebellious than all other peoples, for they hanged the Essence of Being and the Worshipped Beauty and martyred Him with the most grievous torment.   BH02097

However, the ignorant have presumed to suppress this illumination and think in its stead to spread the darkness that emanates from their selfish desires and passions. Praised be to God! Can darkness ever obliterate the light or is it not light that overcomes the darkness? What vain imaginings are these! What foolish thoughts of ignorant minds!  AB09470

And among them is he who prideth himself on his connection to one of the Letters of the Furqan, and by this hath waxed proud before his Lord, the All-Merciful, and opposed God in such wise as neither Nimrod opposed the Friend nor Pharaoh the Interlocutor. Thus hath Satan made his deeds appear fair unto him and rendered him among the idolaters.   BH01036

Observe how despite such tyranny that hath encompassed the world, they count themselves among the people of truth. They martyred His sons without any guilt. It is not known whether the properties were infidel or their owner. If by the assumption of those idolatrous souls the owner was an infidel, for what reason did they plunder the properties?  BH01226

A year ago, on this day, there were great hardships and confusion in Akka. But those times were better, for those hardships had good results for the Cause. While last year this feast day could not be celebrated here on account of troubles, it was still better, for the oppositions which made it impossible, helped the spread of the Cause of God.   ABU0558

In Sangsar the oppressors severely persecuted the spiritual friends and perpetrated a complete assault. Worst of all, in Tabriz the faithless mujtahid Mirza Hasan explicitly and clearly issued a fatva for the murder of all Baha'is. Two people were immediately cut to pieces, and if the friends had not dispersed, all would have been put to death.  AB09669

Verily this mine of contentment, this wellspring of fidelity, this fountain of purity was afflicted with severest cruelty from the people of hatred and rancour. O Lord! Reza suffered intense hardship and grievous persecution at the hands of the stubborn ones, falling repeatedly into the claws of ravening wolves and the grasp of ferocious beasts  AB00484

Mirza Taqi, Governor of Amol, with 700 riflemen, surrounded the room of Jamali Mobarak. They looted everything that was there. They brought Jamali Mobarak to the town where the Mullahs were gathered in the Mosque. They brought Jamali Mobarak and His companions there, and after questions and answers, the Mullahs passed sentence of death on him.   ABU0489

Regarding the books thou hast mentioned which have been written by certain Muslims about the Cause of Baha'u'llah, know that it is written in the Qur'an that some scholars learned in the Torah and the Gospel wrote refutations against the Prophet of God (Muhammad) and claimed their rejection to be based on biblical evidence and therefore of God.  AB02091

Thus did the Tongue of Grandeur speak: O Ibn Abhar! We have mentioned them before with verses from which the fragrance of God's loving-kindness, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, was diffused. We beseech God to preserve them through His grace, to aid them with the hosts of the seen and unseen, and to assist them in attracting hearts and souls.  BH11130

But after I leave, some people may arise in opposition, heaping persecutions upon you in their bitterness, and in the newspapers there may be articles published against the Cause. Rest ye in the assurance of firmness. Be well poised and serene, remembering that this is only as the harmless twittering of sparrows and that it will soon pass away.   ABU0554

Notwithstanding that the government of Persia and the government of Turkey -- Abdul Hamid the Sultan arose against the Cause so severely, they strove so violently, they exercised tyranny and oppression, thinking of extinguishing the lamp of God, but this lamp day by day grew in radiance, its power became greater, its illumination became greater   ABU0236

But the opponents still raised armies and came after Him to kill all the men and take the women captive... But the opponents would return and wage war against the Messenger again, for they were bloodthirsty. There was constant warfare between them, and they took pride in killing people, plundering property, and taking women and children captive.  ABU2230

but when He came with the truth, the people denied God, the Lord of the mighty throne. Among the people was one whom We had counseled to be steadfast, but when the cry was raised he turned away and followed the Calf without any clear proof or enlightening Book. Thus do We recount unto thee what hath befallen Us at the hands of the heedless ones.   BH09929

Many are the atheists, numberless are the barking ones, traitors exist, and thieves are manifest. We beseech God to preserve thee and His loved ones from the evil of these people. They have denied the signs of God, and His sovereignty, and His greatness, and His power, and they were among the most lost in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH09174

At this time, such a matter would greatly disturb and agitate minds, and the slanderers would open their tongues and convey a hundred thousand calumnies to the government. Although now the purpose of this Spiritual Assembly is the administration of spiritual affairs, the accusers will not say this - they will spread a hundred thousand calumnies.   AB02819

But what benefit is there in this, for it has become the hunting ground of wolves and the arena of the fierce beasts of the horizons, and for the friends it is the cause of endless trials and tribulations. The pure-hearted believers who were gathered in that land like stars have been scattered and dispersed, and have become homeless and destitute.  AB09247

This is the Day wherein the hearts of men are sorely troubled and the foundations of all lands are shaken by the might of those who have denied God's truth and His proof. This is a Day wherein the religion of God lamenteth and every wise command crieth out. The heedless have cast the Cause of God behind their backs, clinging to their vain desires.   BH00671

When the morn of Revelation unfurled its standard and the Speaker of Sinai came forth, the divines arose in opposition. Among them were those who pronounced Him an infidel, those who turned away, those who objected, and those who unjustly pronounced against Him, whereby the veil of sanctity was rent asunder and the eyes of the righteous shed tears.  BH00138

The cities and habitations of the people of divine unity are surrounded, while the polytheists encompass them. Every day a tree is uprooted by devastating winds and a lamp is extinguished. This most grievous malady hath seized the realm of the people of unity, yet despite this they neither have sought nor seek to remove this darkest of afflictions.   BH00673

They extended the hand of aggression and showed the power of their arms. Those oppressed ones, like the gazelles of Khoten, had no crime except that they possessed musk-bearing navels. They were cut, bitten and torn, and not content with this, their properties were plundered and pillaged, and even children and secluded women were killed and burned.   AB06215

In Sangsar the cruel ones severely persecuted the spiritual friends and showed complete aggression. Worst of all, in Tabriz the faithless mujtahid Mirza Hasan explicitly and clearly issued a fatva ordering the execution of all Baha'is. Two persons were immediately cut to pieces, and if the friends had not dispersed, all would have been put to death.  AB09669

Although what hath come to pass hath outwardly been most bitter and unpalatable, yet inwardly, since it hath occurred in the path of God, it is most sweet. Erelong shall the opposers be seen in manifest loss and remorse, and those who have turned toward God shall be observed in the utmost glory and dignity. This is irrevocably decreed with thy Lord.   BH05364

They called the honored Dayyan "the father of evil" and martyred him, and they called the honored Khalil "the father of calamities" and perpetrated that which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise to weep, and likewise with other souls. Were God to will it, We would mention what they committed in the days of God through tyranny and oppression.   BH02015

First they targeted these exiles, and night and day in gatherings and assemblies they arose to criticize and reproach us and made many eloquent calumnies. They even composed papers in our name themselves and gave them to everyone, and in government circles every day they stirred up some sedition against us and laid the foundation of some corruption.   AB00382

The obstinate Jews were in eager anticipation of the ascension of the Word of God (Christ), and the idolatrous tribes of the Hijaz were dancing with joy at the setting of the Sun of Yathrib (Muhammad). They imagined that the breezes from the gardens of divine unity would cease and the brilliant rays from the Sun of Truth would become dark and veiled.   AB01186

Yet alas, the children knew not its worth, and the ignorant counted it not as significant. They darkened that pure and subtle horizon with the dense clouds of doubts, and obscured that luminous face of the full moon with the blemishes of selfish desires and passions. Far and near they broke the influence of the Cause of God and gained nothing thereby.  AB08902

A number of ignorant ones have become leaders of the people and are counted among the learned, and these souls, in order to preserve their positions, strive with utmost effort to prevent the people, especially if they find a pretext. Soon shall they witness the loss of their own souls and shall become aware of what they have wrought in the days of God   BH02882

Although in all regions the sound of clamor and tumult has reached to the heavens, and the turbaned ones have arisen with utmost hatred and enmity - one crying out "O Religion!", another raising the cry of "O Faith!", another saying "O Misery!", and another shouting "O Regret!" - and the masses like cattle follow every crier and every misguided one...   AB01716

This Shrine was built despite the efforts of [Sultan] 'Abdu'l-Hamid, his viziers and ministers! Where is Nasiri'd-Din Shah to raise his head from the grave and see what we have done! He wanted to destroy the Cause with his sword. He had told [Haji Muhammad-]Karim Khan [Kirmani], "Your book is a waste. My sword will uproot the Babis and not your book."   ABU1173

Abdul Hamid, the Sultan of Turkey, was the greatest despotic monarch of Turkey. He dealt with us very unjustly. He was so cruel that in the middle of the night he did away with people who displeased him. He tied very heavy stones to the feet of his victims and cast them into the sea. For forty-five years God protected us from the tyranny of such a man!   ABU0097

They were not receptive to counsel but turned to shameful deeds, committed atrocities, drew the swords of vice, and attacked you with bullets that pierced hearts and vitals, not fearing the vengeance of the Mighty, the Compelling. They violated and murdered and perpetrated that which caused the hearts of the pure ones in the Supreme Concourse to lament   AB02178

in Tehran and Shiraz some of the opponents and corrupt ones, when they wished to promote their personal interests and transgress against the Baha'is, read the Kitab-i-Aqdas from their pulpits and said these revolutions and events were foretold in this Book and the Baha'is have caused these seditions and disturbances in order to fulfill these prophecies   ABU1542

The disorder in outward affairs, the opposition and indifference of the heedless divines, and remoteness from the Most Holy Court - each of these hath been raised before thee like standards and banners from the right and the left and before thy face. Yet the hand of divine favor shall set all things aright, and the light of grace shall shed its radiance.  BH00310

On the one hand, the waves of calamity and persecution rise to high heaven and on the other the enemies of the Cause rain down their arrows of hatred continuously. The smouldering evils of rebellion and the burning fires of tyranny blaze up on every side. In addition, the mischief-makers conspire among themselves with plots and counter-plots unceasingly.   AB01013

For forty years, despite all afflictions, trials and sorrows, they have labored to reform morals and moderate conduct. Justice demands acknowledgment that from the time of their arrival in Iraq until now, though they became the object of wrath and chastisement and fell victim to persecution and punishment, they committed no wrong and uttered no complaint.  AB00033

When the adherents of the former despotic government of Persia found that this unity and harmony was being accomplished among the followers of Baha'o'llah, they arose in bigotry and persecution against them. The clergy especially perceived that their vocation and means of livelihood were threatened. They persecuted the Bahais with bitterness and ferocity.  ABU0026

"But now we must maintain calm and quietude and pacify the agitation of the followers of religions. Therefore utmost wisdom must be observed. For example, no one should learn of your gatherings, and meetings should be in complete secrecy, and from each person take a firm pledge not to mention anything to anyone, for they will surely plant spies among you."  AB00795

Consider that from the day the divines in Iraq rose up in opposition, most were seen to be abased and cast down, and some returned to their abode in hellfire. What more can this evanescent servant say? In truth it is a pity - nay a hundred pities - that mention of such souls should flow from the pen in such days as these. Shame upon them and their loyalty!   BH00969

When the light of His Cause dawned from the dayspring of divine will, the idolaters sought through rejection and denial to extinguish it. Thus did they turn from the land of ?a to the land of Zawra, and this denial became a herald for the light. And from Zawra to the land of mystery did He journey, through that which the hands of the oppressors had wrought.  BH00509

Look, therefore, at the one who said There is no God but God, for he was the first whom We tested with There is no God but I, and We distinguished the truthful from others. For he who spoke those words before only spoke what God had revealed in the Qur'an, and the authority of the Qur'an was only established through the inability of all on earth to match it.  BB00506

You are aware that in Iran the envious ones and the traditional clergy joined forces and united, rising up to perpetrate cruelty and calumny against these oppressed ones. They resorted to every intrigue and whispered suggestion until they caused the government to suspect that the Baha'is were, God forbid, traitors and rebels against the sovereign authority.   AB00084

Where is the flutter of flies compared to the wing-beats of eagles in this lofty heaven, and where is the flight of weak birds compared to the soaring falcons in this mighty height? Soon the rays of the sun of the kingdom of unity will so illuminate the horizons of the new cycle that it will cast the dark bats into the narrow and dark depths of the ash-heap.   AB00542

Souls who have so clearly betrayed the property of the servants and who speak calumnies still claim truthfulness, sincerity and righteousness. The leader of that people is Shaykh Muhammad, than whom there exists none more wicked in the world. The cause of these matters and the unity of those souls has been and is the wrongful consumption of people's property.   BH01016

Were it not for the afflictions in God's path, how could the assured be distinguished from the doubtful, the steadfast from the wavering, and the truthful from the false? It is these trials and tribulations that make the faces of the righteous bright and radiant in the Abha Kingdom, and render the countenance of the wicked dark and gloomy in the lowest depths.  AB05315

It behooveth you to be the first assistant to the Word of God, the first servant of the Cause of God and the first one to withstand the spreaders (of false rumors) who say that which they know not, who calumniate God, well knowing that they are calumniators and that they, themselves, have contrived the thing for their own sakes, and evil is that which they do.  AB01281

Teaching in this land is in no wise permitted, for a certain faithless and evil-whispering soul hath spread numerous calumnies amongst the people. He hath even claimed that agents have been sent to various parts for the express purpose of teaching, whereas such an intention hath never been entertained, nor do individuals exist to be dispatched in such a manner.  BH01932

What they mentioned in their reply consisted of things they had heard from the companions and related, for whoever arrives becomes aware of those souls' misdeeds before meeting this servant. However, these matters need not cause distress. The falsehood of those souls is clear and evident to your honor. They have committed that which hath no likeness or parallel.  BH01209

But, of a certainty, the hand of the selfish clerical leaders is at work. Outwardly, they desire a national parliament and raise a hue and cry. But secretly, they are endeavoring to spread turmoil, to instigate, and to oppose the good intentions of the State. Most secretly of all, they have no desire whatsoever to see the establishment of a national parliament.   AB00508

this Cause, whereby the limbs of them that denied God's right and His sovereignty did quake, and who disputed His signs, and turned away from His luminous countenance... We make mention of God's loved ones in that land, whom the circumstances of the tyrannous ones did not frighten, and whom the power of those who disbelieved in the Day of Judgment did not weaken   BH02772

Instead of gratitude, they began to complain; in place of faithfulness appeared faithlessness, and in place of justice, tyranny became manifest. Those who from the beginning of the Cause were heedless and veiled laid claim to knowledge and insight, and with the utmost cunning and deceit, strove to mislead those who had accepted and become unified with the Truth.   BH00190

And when he had become known far and wide by this new name, the clergy, envious and malevolent, arose, and informed against him, sending their calumnies on to Tihran, so that Na?iri'd-Din Shah rose up in wrath. Terrified of the Shah, the Amir attacked Nabil with all his might. Soon the whole city was in an uproar, and the populace, lashed to fury, turned upon him.  AB00002

Today the forces of the leaders of religions have all united to scatter the gathering of the All-Merciful and to divide and destroy the foundation established by the people of God. The material, cultural and political forces of the world are attacking from every direction, for this Cause is mighty, mighty indeed, and its greatness is clear and evident to all eyes.  AB00348

But in these days when the cawing of the polytheists has been raised and the braying of the calumniators has ascended... When he found himself disappointed in what he had intended, he opened his tongue of calumny that he might cast doubt in hearts that were not firm, and he wrote words about which any soul with the least discernment would testify to their falsity.   BH01868

O Nasr! By the life of God, this Wronged One, though in the dragon's mouth, calleth all unto the horizon of the All-Merciful. The corrupt ones of the Threshold are occupied with spreading false and slanderous reports. Glory be to God! Every person of insight is astonished that one whose treachery is evident as the sun still claimeth religiosity and trustworthiness.  BH00767

O Lord! Thou seest Thy friends in adversity who have been visited in Thy path with such tribulations as have caused every just one to weep and every discerning eye to shed tears. We testify that those foreigners who have violated Thy Covenant and Testament have oppressed them and committed that which hath caused the hearts of Thy loved ones in Thy dominion to melt.  BH11863

Buildings have been destroyed, edifices razed to the ground, the exalted abased and the wealthy become desolate. Fathers were killed, sons were orphaned and mothers shed tears of blood at the funerals of their children. Cries of lament were raised in all lands, the skies are constantly filled with howling and wailing and every territory was as the inferno of hell.   AB00805

With a hundred thousand deceits and schemes they have sought and continue to seek to harm the Lord of all causes. However, in His hand is the kingdom of all things; He will cause to flow whatsoever He willeth, and the word "God will perfect His light though the unbelievers are averse" hath been and shall remain fulfilled, despite them and those who cleave to idols.   BH01372

Then God is witness to what has befallen Me from one for whom I exerted mighty efforts night and day for his protection, education and training. When I became assured of his character, he arose to kill Me... Afterward he spread abroad what he had done and made accusations against this servant such as no one has ever made against another, sending these to all regions  BH02139

Nevertheless, the ungodly declared your oppression lawful and fierce beasts set out to destroy you. One like unto the loathsome Yazid was thirsty for the blood of the birds of the rose garden of unity; and another like unto the vile Walid was intent upon slaughtering the flock of God. They did whatever they desired, and they reached out with the hand of aggression.   AB00773

But what use is it? If explanation is given, they cry out that insult has been offered and disparagement has occurred. They make it a means of confusing minds and causing disturbance of thoughts. This letter produces the opposite effect and these counsels are counted as vices. The sick flees from the physician's cure and the ill shows aversion to the great antidote.   AB01292

As for the people of Yazd, briefly: Jinab Mushiru'l-Mamalik fell into destruction - they bled him dry, meaning his properties were plundered and pillaged, his dependents fell under the lash of wrath, and he himself fell into utmost abasement and destitution. Beyond this, other events also occurred where all the oppressors were caught in the punishment of their deeds.   AB02687

The bonds have been tightened around you, and leg has been bound to leg. The oppressors have attacked with utmost hatred and hypocrisy. But fear not, for they are a people accustomed to inflicting harm, who have abandoned faithfulness and persisted in cruelty. Indeed, they are but fierce wolves and worthless dogs who drink blood and devour the flesh of the loved ones.  AB04149

I find no place for myself in Thy earth whereon to set my foot or wherein to abide, for Thy servants hate me and banish me, and every day they conspire to slay me and say concerning me what they please and judge me as they desire, such that I have become bewildered in my affair and find neither refuge to flee to, nor place to settle in, nor sanctuary wherein to dwell.   BH01160

Consider how a group of meaningless turbaned ones and senseless headgear-wearers in the land of Kaf raised the banner of opposition and spread calumnies in all directions. However, after the matter was presented before His Majesty the Sultan, he delivered the oppressed from the evil of the oppressors, protected them, and of his own accord released the prisoners of ?a.   BH00521

As for the matter of molestation and persecution, Zaim-ud-Dawlih himself surely knows it has no basis - let him be the judge, for he came to Akka and observed our conduct, behavior, deeds and actions, and became acquainted with our speech and character, witnessing the utmost love, respect and kindness. Glory be to God! How could this matter become confused despite this?  AB11634

The smoke of vain imaginings and the dust of idle fancies have prevented the world from beholding. The True One, exalted be His glory, hath come for meeting, presence, and the bestowal of grace, but the divines and theologians of Persia became a barrier, preventing eyes from beholding and ears from hearing. This prevention from Persia hath influenced these lands as well.  BH01240

Consider the former generations. Witness how every time the Day Star of Divine bounty hath shed the light of His Revelation upon the world, the people of His Day have arisen against Him, and repudiated His truth. They who were regarded as the leaders of men have invariably striven to hinder their followers from turning unto Him Who is the Ocean of God's limitless bounty.  BH02046

We came to Europe and found that some people from Iran, meaning a few unimportant individuals who care nothing for religion or the order of the human world, oppose us. They even speak ill of us to Christians, although if we have not been the cause of Iran's glory and prosperity, we have not caused its ruin either, and we have not interfered in any way in these upheavals.  ABU0209

For some time in this land, the deniers and the objectors have been speaking unseemly words. Though there was delay in sending, yet nothing - neither adversity, nor tribulation, nor the opposition of the opposers, nor the denial of the transgressors, nor the authority of the oppressors - hath prevented or will prevent God, exalted be His glory, from manifesting His Cause.  BH00522

Since Mirza Hasan the mujtahid issued a fatwa calling for the killing of all the friends and one of the friends was torn to pieces, and they announced that all Baha'is must be killed...If this had not happened, all the divine friends in Azerbaijan would have been killed...the esteemed Aqa Siyyid Yahya was also martyred in Sirjan and the government did not seek retribution  AB12134

Concerning the affliction of the [divine] party in that land, the sun lamented and the lamp wept, the earth was troubled and the heaven grieved and the cloud was sorrowful. Yet the [ignorant] servants remained heedless of all. Soon shall they witness the requital of their deeds. Where is the wolf, and where is the serpent, and where is the one who lied in the land of Sad?   BH08180

Know thou of a certainty that the tribulation of the people hath returned as in the early days of Islam, and trials have appeared in that land just as they appeared in Medina concerning the question of succession. All have departed from God's pure command save a few. Thank God thy Lord that thou art among them and remainest steadfast in these words upon the straight path.   BB00203

In the thick of those calamities, when the enemy attacked, they stoned our house and it had filled up with stones. We had nobody to help us... Immediately he called out, 'This one is a Babi!' and the boys ran after me... When I left the place, the boys came after me again, shouting and throwing stones, following me until I got close to the store of Aqa Muhammad ?anduqdar.   ABU1312

Your burden is great. Bear it as this most tender, most delicate, most compassionate, gracious, wondrous and luminous Heart hath borne above it. For you must, with wisdom, as hath been enjoined in all the Tablets, purify the people from their personal imaginings and their unseemly behavior through penetrating counsels and divine wisdom, and draw them to the most holy court.   BH00244

Notwithstanding this, between eminent doctors and illustrious scholars and those learned persons who were followers of the Bab opposition, discussion, and strife did so increase that in some provinces they desired [to resort to] mutual imprecation; and for the governors of the provinces, too, a means of acquiring gain was produced, so that great tumult and disturbance arose.  AB00003

A person animated by religious enmity subjects us to harsh treatments and persecutions. By doing this he thinks he is serving his religion, that our sufferings will be the passport leading him to eternal felicity. To such people we are most thankful, because though misguided in their zeal, they consider it their religious and not personal bounden duty to harm and vilify us.   ABU0368

Yet that oppressor and his followers perpetrated day after day such deeds as caused the very essence of reality to weep. They incited Ahmad-i-Kirmani, and that unjust one recorded in writing that which was the greatest cause of harm to this Wronged One. Likewise they prompted Ibn-i-Rajab-'Ali to reject and revile this Wronged One in ways that astounded the Concourse on High.   BH05581

Glory be to God! Until now they have not comprehended the Day of God. They have devised calumnies born of their vain imaginings and have arisen to lead the servants astray. The heaven beareth witness and the sun is a testimony that this Wronged One hath arisen before the faces of all the world, wholly detached from all else, in such wise that no fair-minded person can deny it.  BH00520

Under no circumstances should you be at ease with anyone. There have been and are investigators among the people; one cannot be at ease with any soul, for they conduct their investigations with the utmost friendship and unity. Since that beloved one has the affairs of the people in hand, they must be most vigilant. The polytheistic souls will surely give information to others.   BH00917

The chief of this land has risen to cause harm and has repeatedly and continuously complained to his superiors that caravans of Babis arrive every day, along with other fabrications, until finally an official was appointed and came to this land solely to investigate and search. The emigrants were present at the first appearance of these events and they relate the circumstances.  BH05929

Instead of all offering assistance, they do the opposite, rising in opposition, striving to extinguish the flame and publishing doubtful papers. O how grievous for the servants! While we are in the thick of battle with all the nations of the world and in the midst of warfare and struggle, suddenly these cruel friends strive to disperse the ranks and divide the army of salvation.  AB05966

Those who in the days of hardship remained hidden behind veils like unto women have now, like unto serpents, risen up against the Lord of Names. They have turned away from that Station which hath been sent down from the heaven of His Will - a Station that equalleth all the books of the past and the future - and are striving with their vain imaginings to lead the servants astray.   BH07429

And when the world of possibility was illumined with the lights of the utterance of the All-Merciful, and the crimson standard was, through the grace of the Most Exalted Word, hoisted in the highest station, the veiled, concealed and fearful souls emerged from behind their veils and with a hundred thousand tricks and deceptions set about to lead astray the illumined and assured souls  BH02072

O Lord! Thou seest how Thine enemies have encompassed the white path, and each day they gather and plot. The matter hath reached such a pass that the wicked have gained ascendancy over the free. Thou hearest, O my God, the sighing of those near unto Thee and the crying of the sincere ones beneath the claws of the transgressors among Thy servants and the idolaters among Thy creatures.  BH11486

The people at the beginning persecuted and reviled the believers in God and said of them: "These are the people of aberration." Then, when their light appeared, their stars shone and their lamps illuminated, the people returned into love and affinity; they prayed to them, offered words of glory night and day (in their name) and remembered them in eulogy, reverence, honor and majesty.  AB00875

However, in these days certain oppressors, enkindled with the fire of greed, passion and desire, have raised up the standard of hypocrisy in the Great City and have clung to tyranny and rebellion. Therefore the lights of the Sun of permission have been concealed behind the clouds until such time as God shall lift them away through a power from Him and a sovereignty from His presence.   BH02156

If you wish news of this land, although all regions are disturbed and shaken, as has been detailed in the blessed Surih of Ra'is and elsewhere, yet this land is outwardly tranquil at present. Although it has been said that the land of prison has not yet become tranquil, and within its mystery lies concealed a disturbance - its knowledge is with God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH01321

God has raised up souls who are loving, faithful and truthful - they have arisen with determination and raised the banner of protection. Glory be to God! Those ones are predatory, bloodthirsty and cruel, while these are soaring, caring and faithful. Those ones have devilish nature, demonic character and are treacherous, while these have angelic nature, worship God and are beneficent.   AB00701

Consider the times of the appearance of the Manifestations of the All-Merciful in the past: although all appeared with clear verses and firm, impregnable proof, nevertheless in each Manifestation most people, through satanic whisperings, remained deprived of recognition of the Manifestation of the All-Merciful and were, in these transient days, forbidden from eternal, everlasting life.  BH01852

Now what hath befallen that spiritual friend is even greater than that... The oppression of this community reached such a point that in one city, on the word of a single attendant, twenty people were martyred. In any case, persecuting the oppressed is easy and unimpeded, but if at any time or moment the sun of justice should shine forth, the deeds of all will become clear and evident.   BH00860

World upon world of praise and realm upon realm of glorification befit and beseem the revelation of the Most Great Name, Whom neither the opposition of the divines, nor the clamor of the learned, nor the objections of the mighty, nor the power of princes, nor the vain imaginings of the people of creation could deter from His purpose or prevent from the execution of His decree and Will.  BH11256

Therefore you must proceed to punish those who martyred one of the Bahais, Seyid Yah Yah, in the city of Sirjan. He was a most learned man. They martyred him simply because he was a Bahai. Therefore you must avenge the murder. In another city, Sangsar, the natives arose against those persons. Also another person, Mullah Hassan, in the city of Tabriz, gave a command to kill the Bahais.   ABU0841

The reason some souls were prevented from entering the Divine Law was the reprehensible deeds of certain believers, for in the early days of the Cause some were engaged in actions contrary to His good-pleasure while imagining God was pleased with them. Thus some souls, upon witnessing such actions, hesitated in accepting the Self-Sufficient Lord's Cause while others arose in opposition   BH01997

For a thousand years and more there was dispute and contention among Islamic scholars about whether God or another is the originator of words. Now, despite the appearance of Truth in what has been revealed from Him, they have objected and continue to object, as did Karim-i-Kermani and likewise the scholars of the age who have made countless objections to divine words, as you have heard.   BH00781

Sixty years have rolled by and the Bahais have been the object of the sword of affliction and the target of the arrows of oppression. Thousands of houses have been destroyed, children became captives, women became prisoners, property was pillaged and not even a small child remained safe; yet, notwithstanding all of this, not one single Bahai took refuge under the flag of a foreign power!  AB00490

When Thou didst manifest Thy Most Exalted Cause through Thy Name, the Guardian over all names, and didst raise up the banner of Thy victory between earth and heaven, there emerged from behind the rocks a band of wolves who committed that which caused the dwellers of heaven and the people of the cities of names to lament. By Thy glory, O my God! They violated my honor and sought to kill me.  BH04748

Faces have turned black and souls have been perturbed when God came with the Kingdom of verses. One said: "Why hath He come?" Say: "Despite thy will, O thou who art a polytheist and filled with doubt!" Another said: "Hath the appointed time come?" Say: "Yea, by Him Who sendeth down the rain! The appointed time is none other than His own Self, could ye but understand, O people of insight!"   BH00793

How many are the divines who today are honored by His name and Word, yet remain heedless of Him. Consider the Wolf of the Land of Sad, who deemed himself the promoter of the Law of the Messenger, yet martyred the sons of the Virgin with utmost tyranny and oppression. And the Snake who considered himself a descendant of the Prophet's lineage killed the Lord of Lords without recognizing Him.   BH05027

They who repudiated the signs of God in these days; they have verily reversed the favors of God upon themselves and have worshiped the idols of their vain imaginings and busied themselves therewith... Know ye that they who believed not in God, their Creator, in this Revelation, had verily waged war against God, and denied His proofs and gainsaid His signs and disbelieved in His sovereignty   BH01854

The confused and erroneous statements of that fool and the unseemly actions of him and his like brought matters to the point where people attributed every ugliness and corruption to the original Cause, and every pretext fell into the hands of the enemies of the Cause. Security was completely removed. All people became certain that the Babis were enemies of people's property, lives and honor.  ABU0446

I see My Name, the Wronged One, and My loved ones in the prison of the Land of Ta, inasmuch as they summoned the servants unto God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. They counseled the servants to trustworthiness, religiosity and faithfulness, yet they rose against them with an injustice at which the dwellers of Paradise and they that circle round God's exalted and magnificent Throne have wept.   BH08522

Concerning what you wrote about the friends in Jasb, upon them be the Glory of God, and likewise the mention of Mulla Ghulam-Rida, upon him be the Glory of God and His favors, and his imprisonment and afflictions - observe now to what degree oppression has reached! Hearts have melted and lands have lamented at what has befallen them, yet the people remain in evident error and strange slumber.  BH03705

After Christ, groups would apostatize one after another. After Muhammad, all the Arabs of the Hijaz desert and Yathrib turned back. And in the time of the Blessed Beauty Himself, the Bani-Zafar turned back due to a minor incident, out of their intense tribal prejudice, and went to the enemies of the Blessed Beauty, armed themselves, and with utmost enmity arose to extinguish the divine lamp.   AB00924

Then when Baha'u'llah became known as a Babi and he was teaching the people right and left the populace arose against him and with tacit consent of the government, our home was pillaged and ransacked. My father was put in the prison and we were persecuted on all sides. For days the rabble in their fanatical furry and rage threw stones into our homes, broke the windows and damaged everything.   ABU2597

Some petitions arrived from various places - it was observed that they had considered corruption as assistance and deemed the injury of God's servants as beloved. This is naught but due to the friends' lack of awareness. I swear by the sun of the horizon of utterance that if today any soul is content with the injury of another, it is as though he were content with injury to the Self of Truth.   BH02069

By God! Were We to mention what hath befallen Us at the hands of those who have wronged the Remembrance, the heavens would be cleft asunder, the earth would be rent, and the mountains would crumble. Thus doth thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Loving, inform thee. We praise God in all conditions and rejoice in His remembrance and the exaltation of His Cause among all who witness and are witnessed.   BH00914

Two of the loved ones of God - one whose blessed name was Kazim and the other Siyyid Aqa Jan - were confronted with hostility. By order of the Imam of the polytheists and Baqir, one of that city's ignorant ones who is known for his learning, those two noble souls were brought to the city in utter humiliation. They went before the governor and resorted to a hundred thousand lies and calumnies.   BH00392

The enemies sit upon thrones of gold while the friends languish in prison. Glory be to God! Such heedlessness hath seized the negligent that they have become oblivious to that which profiteth them and are occupied with that which harmeth them. These holy souls have been seized with utmost tyranny, though they themselves went forth and spoke with perfect steadfastness of truth and righteousness   BH00882

This Day hath come while the people are in evident drunkenness - they heard the call yet turned away from it, thus did their souls entice them. Verily they are in manifest loss. By its call were all things attracted, and by its manifestation did all names bow down, and by its mention were agitated the hearts of the polytheists who denied God and cast aside His Book out of their hatred for Him.   BH01245

As to other news of this land, despite the encompassing presence of the heedless and the clamor of the polytheists, the divine fragrances of the Cause are spreading. Some time ago, the situation in this land became very severe, that is, the governor here rose up in opposition. Praise be to God, very soon the fire of his rancor was extinguished and the spark of his envy perished and disappeared.   BH01540

When the promise came to pass and that which had been inscribed by the Supreme Pen in the Books of the Prophets was made manifest, the people turned away. Among them were those who denied God's proof and His evidence, those who uttered that which none before had uttered, and those who pronounced judgment against God's chosen ones and His loved ones, until blood was shed and hearts were pierced.   BH02724

O Lord! Thou seest Thy chosen ones in the hands of Thy creation, and Thy trusted ones under the command of the treacherous among Thy servants. I beseech Thee by the blood of Thy chosen ones, the cries of Thy pure ones, and the yearning of Thy loved ones to aid us to remain steadfast in Thy Cause in such wise that what hath befallen us through the oppression of Thy creatures shall not prevent us.  BH00467

From the beginning of the world until the present time each 'Manifestation' sent from God has been opposed by an embodiment of the 'Powers of Darkness'. This dark power has always endeavoured to extinguish the light. Tyranny has ever sought to overcome justice. Ignorance has persistently tried to trample knowledge underfoot. This has, from the earliest ages, been the method of the material world.  ABU0181

All the inhabitants of Baghdad rose up in opposition and pride, and with full force and by order of the government courts and through the police, expelled the servants of the House and took possession of it. The cry of the masses reached the ethereal sphere that "This house is the pilgrim-place of the Baha'is! As long as we have life in our bodies, we will not allow it to fall into Baha'i hands!"  AB00633

They said: We shall never believe in thee, nor in Him Who sent thee. Thou art but one who wishes to turn us away from that which our fathers worshipped. Thus did they recognize Him, and saw in Him none other than one of those who fabricate lies against God. And whenever We counseled them with the counsel of truth, they turned not unto it, until the fire of waywardness increased within their souls.  BH00031

What dost thou expect to do with me? If by these persecutions and exile thou dost desire my destruction, very well, singly and along I am in your midst without any protector or guardian. You may do with me whatever you please. You may banish or hang me on a pillary; you may throw me into the dungeon or kill me in the public square, in fact you may inflict upon me the worse imaginable punishments.   ABU1466

O Lord! The wicked have stretched forth the hands of tyranny and aggression against the righteous, and the evil-doers have kindled the fire of hatred and pride against Thy free servants. They have drawn their swords, arrayed their ranks, advanced by the thousands, aimed their arrows, raised their spears, and given free rein against the servants of the All-Merciful, igniting the fire of oppression.  AB12108

What dost thou expect to do with me? If by these persecutions and exile thou dost desire my destruction, very well, singly and along I am in your midst without any protector or guardian. You may do with me whatever you please. You may banish or hang me on a pillary; you may throw me into the dungeon or kill me in the public square, in fact you may inflict upon me the worse imaginable punishments.   ABU1757

he emerged from behind the veil and denied his Lord and rejected what He had bestowed upon him through His grace, until he arose to slay Him, then cried out among those whom the foolish of the earth had recognized, saying "I have left these people while wronged" - that he might cause doubt to enter the hearts of the believers and cause the rancor of the youth to enter the breasts of his followers.   BH02088

The fire of tyranny and wickedness hath been kindled, whereby the light of righteousness and godliness hath been veiled, through that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought in the land of Ya. They have kindled the fire of hatred and acted in such wise as hath caused every fair-minded one to lament and every just one to cry out, and tears to flow from the eyes of them that are nigh unto God.   BH02298

They have made every easy thing difficult for me, removed every near thing far from me, clouded every clear thing for me, hidden every evident thing from people's eyes, made every manifest thing appear doubtful to them, shot arrows at me, pierced me with spears, made me a target for their darts, struck me with their blades, and thundered against me with the rumbling of thunder while I was in chains.  AB03073

Outwardly they act with humility and submissiveness, yet inwardly, from the Land of Ta unto the Great City, they are engaged in stirring up sedition. They have secretly incited certain people and kept them in that city. Each day bringeth fresh harm and manifest oppression, while the Wronged One, in the midst of tribulations and adversities, remaineth firm in the Cause and uttereth the divine decrees.   BH00910

By Him Who created me! If God were to transform every atom within His knowledge into living beings and place in their hearts the hardness of the murderer of my grandfather Husayn, peace be upon him, and bestow upon them the power of all who are in the heavens and earth, and if they were to gather together with drawn swords to deny my proof and harm me, it would not diminish my certitude in the least.   BB00073

Without a doubt it must be like this, for the ravens of depravation are swarming around the falcons of purity, and the owls of tyranny are reaching out with the claws of aggression to seize the birds of faithfulness. They say to this one: Why dost thou cherish the memory of the king's arm? And to that one, they say: Why dost thou chant the notes of God in the divine rose garden with wondrous melodies?  AB04092

The pretenders to the Cause and the liars of the world have appeared and will appear to such an extent that in all cities and villages the cawing of ravens will be raised. Perhaps in Akka too the cawing of a raven has been raised. We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to assist you to achieve the most great steadfastness and to protect you from the calumnies of the godless ones and the slanderers.  BH01475

In any case, during these days it is possible that in other places too they may seek information through such tricks and deceptions. The friends must not believe every claimant and should not trust every newcomer until gradually what is hidden in hearts becomes manifest. "Deliberation is from the All-Merciful and haste is from Satan." Through patience and deliberation, people's conditions become known.  BH00183

In these days, 'Abdu'l-Baha has fallen into a whirlpool of torment and fire of tribulation from the sedition and corruption of the people of hatred, such that night and day He melts like a candle. Now think about the Cause of God, that the corruption of the people of hatred may not make a breach in the Cause of God and they may not create complete corruption in Tehran as they have done in the Holy Land.  AB08584

Regarding what you wrote about the son of the preacher who read "The Frail Rope" from the pulpits and attributed the writer to the oppressed party - his previous writings are available where he severely disparaged the people of God and made all kinds of false accusations. The friends should show these writings to demonstrate that this person is a pure enemy who constantly spreads rumors and fabrications.  AB08885

Those who, bound by their own suspicions and fancies, dispatch certain ones to various regions ostensibly to protect properties and lives - each of these becomes as a ravening beast, attacking the bodies and possessions of helpless souls. May God destroy them, save whom He willeth, for at times there may be some who are, to the extent possible, adorned with the ornament of religiosity and trustworthiness.  BH11173

In recent times, that accursed Khawwaq has been consorting openly, day and night, with Rida and his sister. After previous incidents, he has written many calumnies and sent them to Beirut where they have been published in one of the newspapers. The curse of God be upon him who hath wronged and fabricated lies. God will soon cause his schemes to rebound upon himself. Verily, He is the Mighty, the Powerful.   BH00393

Despite those who have disbelieved and turned away, drink ye of that choice wine of utterance which is mingled with the tribulation of the Best-Beloved of all creation. Today the ocean of bounty and grace hath desired eternal life for all peoples, yet they accepted it not; nay rather, they have arisen to extinguish the divine light. They have transformed gratitude into complaint, and acceptance into cruelty.   BH01496

Those souls who have risen up in opposition today were concealed behind veils and coverings, and from fear for their lives were moving from city to city and land to land. Yet when the light of the Sun became somewhat manifest and brilliant, they emerged from behind the veil with swords of opposition and objection. At first they attempted to cut down the blessed Tree that is neither of the East nor of the West   BH07047

O servant! Hearken unto the call of this Prisoner Who hath been imprisoned in the path of God, thy Lord, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Conquering, the Powerful. Then know thou that they who prided themselves on serving me have risen up against me with hypocrisy, have cast at me the darts of dissension, and have objected to me for having imparted unto them the mention of their Lord, the Most Exalted, the Great.   BH01523

The nobles of that land fell upon the pure and holy bodies like wolves of the earth and committed that which caused the Most Great Sorrow. In brief, the beasts of the isles of heedlessness have surrounded the rulers. Beseech God to protect the rulers. By Thy life, O Observer! They have no helper and no champion; they cry out for help but none assists them, for the darkness of oppression hath seized the world.   BH00808

Among the people are those who turned towards Him and drank the choice wine of revelation, and among them are those who turned away in such manner as caused My Herald in the Most Exalted Paradise and Muhammad the Apostle of God in the All-Highest Paradise to lament. However, most of the people are heedless. They have cast the Cause of God behind their backs, clinging to their vain imaginings and idle fancies.   BH00971

According to reports, an evil person in those regions attacked both rich and poor, harming friend and stranger alike. He plundered and pillaged, and extracted tribute and tax. He exempted no one and left not a penny...Twelve thousand oppressive troops attacked the Blessed Beauty's village in Mazandaran. They plundered so thoroughly that no trace of goods or property, not even grain, remained for the villagers.  AB00552

Yet they were not content, but pursued that noble bier whose creaking cries out "O Kind One, save me from every stubborn tyrant!" They followed it with reports to the Gulf by telegraph and to Iraq by the post of hypocrisy, saying not to allow that body to be buried in the earth. They inflicted upon it every torment and evil punishment, burning the bones and scattering the ashes until it became scattered dust.   AB03572

The words of truth with the whisperings of satan, for though it begins with the Most Great Name - this is from the Truth, says the Most Exalted Pen, and this is what the Truth has spoken, and likewise before the Throne - the rest is attributed to the rebellious one. In any case, say: O party of God! These souls are seen to be exactly like those souls who in early Islam became the cause of error and misguidance.  BH00037

One person in Iraq and another in Bulaq have authored books, but with lies and calumnies against the Wronged One of the horizons. They imagine they can extinguish the rays of the Sun of Truth, still the waves of the Most Great Sea, put out the light of the radiant moon, and cool the sphere of fire. Glory be to God! What delusions are these and what false thoughts! How vain the notion! How impossible the fancy!   AB00181

As for what you wrote regarding the upheaval in the Land of Purpose - by your life, no eye hath seen nor ear heard the like. Though outwardly it occurred without permission and was the cause of great harm, yet for those evil souls it was pure justice - their deeds were embodied and suddenly seized those wicked ones. Upon them be the curse of God and the curse of His chosen ones and the curse of the near angels.   BH01134

Concerning the aggression and transgression of the oppressors which you had written about, that they had attacked the friends of the Luminous Lord in Naraq - the tribulations and ordeals of the friends caused intense grief. However, trials and tribulations are inherent requirements of the path of love. Inevitably, from time to time, the fire of trials must blaze forth and the heat and fever of tests must arise.   AB00321

They swarmed in, attacking the quarantine station to lay hold of the body and either bury it in Basra or throw it into the sea or out on the desert sands. The case took on such importance that in the end it proved impossible to bring the remains to Najaf, and Siyyid Asadu'llah had to carry them on to Baghdad. Here, too, there was no burial place where the Afnan's body would be safe from molestation at enemy hands.  AB00002

The point is that the heedless and foolish ones have stretched forth the hand of aggression with tyranny and oppression, and have made a general attack, for they have become powerless before the resistance of proof and evidence, and have resorted to the weapons of the weak. Their purpose is that through savagery and bloodthirstiness, like wolves, they may tear apart the divine sheep and extinguish the divine lamp.   AB03239

They wanted to obliterate the name of the Faith from the pages of history. They killed, harmed, imprisoned, exiled and did what they could in murdering, plundering, injuring and banishing the believers; and no one was shown mercy, not even infants, pregnant women, or the disabled. They committed such heinous deeds that history has never witnessed their like, and in no other age had the persecutions been so intense.  ABU0915

Reflect upon the tenderness of God, exalted be His glory, and the oppression of His enemies. For thirty-two years or more We forbade the people of God from contention, dispute and corruption. The clouds of decree rained the showers of tribulation upon them, yet they remained patient. They heard vile words, yet responded not. They witnessed the height of abasement, yet made no protest. They were slain, yet slew not.   BH00192

By God, besides Whom there is no other God! These bonds and chains of yours are the pride of all who are free, and these trials and tribulations are the source of all comfort and rest. A time will come when they shall lament over what they have done, weep and curse themselves, and seek your intercession that God might forgive them. On that day the sincere shall rejoice while the hypocrites and deniers shall despair.  AB08213

In Isfahan, the followers of the Shaykh tore one of the oppressed ones to pieces in broad daylight before all witnesses. No one even reproached the killers, let alone demanded retribution. In Dahaj of Yazd, they martyred Mirza Habibullah. In Hisar of Khurasan, they killed nearly twenty people in one year, mounting some of their heads on spears and parading them through the streets and bazaars with drums and cymbals.  AB01241

When the Cause was made manifest, the manifestations of vain imaginings emerged from behind the veils and perpetrated that which neither Pharaohs nor tyrants had perpetrated. Thus did their souls entice them, and today they are among the companions of the fire. By the life of God! The dwellers of the cities of justice and fairness, and they who circle round the Throne at morn and eventide, have lamented their deeds.   BH03490

During those thrilling times, the Blessed Beauty, Baha'o'llah, never changed his attitude. Every day, as usual, he went to the bank of the Tigris river, accompanied only by Agha Mirza Mohammed Kuli. No matter how much the friends tried to interfere, telling him that the multitudes were rising against him, he paid no attention... 'All of the ulama are urging others from Nadjaf and Karbala to wage a holy war upon us.'   ABU1021

Day and night they spent their time creating discord and mischief. For example, they would send petitions to Istanbul and tell the Muslims that Baha'u'llah had no new message, he followed the path of the mystics and Sufis, but so-and-so is establishing and promoting a new religion, calling people to himself and organizing gatherings. They wrote and said many such things to stir up souls and cause mischief and sedition  ABU1376

These blameworthy people heard and understood that the oppressive people could not resist the Lord of the Righteous, yet they remain heedless that this mighty blessed Cause has caused the horizons to quake and these weak groups cannot resist it. Soon they shall find themselves in manifest loss, just as that sinful son of a sinful one saw the recompense of his deeds and today thou seest him in great loss and abasement.   AB00941

Sometimes like wine, veiled in the wine-cellar of concealment, and sometimes like the rose, notorious in street and market, companion to friend and stranger alike. At times in the darkness of prison alongside criminals, at times in the court of grace and chamber of rest, head upon silken pillows from India and China. One moment bound in chains and fetters, another moment prince of the realm of ease and peerless bounty.  AB00284

In the path of the blessed Perfection he suffered much persecutions, hardships and afflictions. While being pursued by the enemies he was serene and composed. The sword of Damocles often hung over his head. Finally he was thrown into the prison in Teheran. In those days Nasser-Ed-Din Shah was borne on the crest of the raging waves of wrath against the Baha'is and Nayeb-as-Saltaneh was no less exasperated and indignant.  ABU0444

When they attained unto full strength they rose up against God in opposition, following their own selves and desires. Therefore do all the tribes in the realms of eternity lament My tribulations...Give thanks unto thy Lord for having aided thee to recognize His Self, while all others have opposed Him. Soon shall He requite them for what their hands have wrought, their tongues have uttered, and their hearts have harbored.  BH02490

Now took place the deplorable incident of the insane youth shooting at the Shah. Mirza 'Abdu'l-Vahhab was instantly seized and thrown into the horrible prison, where very soon Baha'u'llah Himself arrived, having been arrested at His village, Niyavaran, whence He had been made to walk barefoot, with heavy chains on His neck, and fetters on His limbs; in this condition, without His kulah, did the friends see their Beloved.  ABU0813

Therefore ask thou God, thy Lord, to protect His servants from those through whose tyranny the dwellers of the cities of names and the denizens of the Most Exalted Paradise have lamented. They have forbidden all servants from the Truth and have summoned them to the dawning-places of vain imaginings and their manifestations. Away with them and with those who have followed them without any clear proof or enlightening Book!   BH08028

Were We to recount unto thee what hath befallen Us, the pen and ink would not suffice, nor would the Tablets be adequate, and God is witness and well-aware of this. However, We beseech God that He may bring thee into the presence of the Throne that thou mayest witness and become apprised of the mysteries which We have concealed from the servants, and whereof We have not mentioned a single letter among all created things.   BH00203

From the events and heedlessness and foolishness of the people of lethargy, utmost astonishment was produced - what foolishness is this and what folly! What misguidance is this and what a tale! Glory be to God! Can the Sun of the Covenant be hidden, or can the brilliant moon be concealed, or can the fine garment of the Moon of Canaan be sullied by these falsehoods, or can the decisive Text be concealed by a patched cloth?   AB02694

A Manifestation which from the beginning until now has appeared with utmost power amidst enemies, has not concealed itself for a moment, and from which has been revealed and made manifest the equivalent of what was revealed by all the Prophets and Messengers, and all future events have been explicitly recorded in Tablets by the Supreme Pen - yet they have said that which was never said and which no idolator has ever uttered.  BH02753

The strangers have become strangers to the familiar ones and have not failed in whatever they could do. They have made every kind of false accusation and calumny. The external enemies who united with the Covenant-breakers became their own claimants, their own witnesses, and their own judges, for the officials who arrived investigated all matters from them, and they carried out whatever their nature and disposition required.   AB01478

This servant remains perpetually bewildered and astounded, for he observes that the peoples of the world, from diverse nations and parties, are each striving with utmost determination to cling to some cause and exert themselves to the fullest extent to promote it. Yet this Most Great, Most Holy Cause, which has no peer or likeness in all creation, has appeared in Iran, while its people remain utterly heedless and veiled from it.  BH00301

I swear by their truth that if I have mentioned anything other than what occurred, what did occur was exactly as described. Let them not think that mention of this incident was to demonstrate miracles. No, by the Lord of the Worlds! For we are certain that those in whose hearts is hatred of truth will never be convinced by any proof or evidence, as it has been foretold: If they should see every sign, they will not believe in it.  BH00004

If they are accused of unbelief, if lies are attributed to God, if they say "Did he invent a garden?", if when seeing you they mock, saying "These are confused dreams - nay, he has fabricated it - nay, he is just a poet", if they say "He is surely possessed", if they pronounce you unbelievers and attribute polytheism to you - it does not matter. All these events cause the exaltation of God's Word and spread of divine fragrances   AB00428

Consider My Cause and that which hath befallen Me after I came from the Most Exalted Horizon for the reformation of the world and the education of the nations. Say: Alas, alas! This servant knoweth not which of Thy tribulations to mention before Thy face. The Pen is struck dumb at the mention of Thy tribulations and what hath befallen Thee at the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures and the rebellious amongst Thy servants.  BH00863

When the horizon of the world was illumined with the light of the appearance of the Most Great Herald, all arose in opposition and inflicted upon that blessed Being, Who was in truth a divine subtlety and a celestial melody, that which hath been heard and witnessed. And when afterwards the Sun of Truth dawned from the Horizon of Will, it was observed what they said and what they committed. In truth the Pen is powerless to recount it.  BH03266

The fiendish cruelties of the authorities of Persia reached to such a height as to divide a large number of the believers amongst the various classes of the inhabitants of Teheran, so that they might martyr them according to their own devilish desires. For example, a believer was given to the government clerks, another to the policemen, another to the infantry, another to the Ulemas, another to the Dervishes, another to the butchers.  ABU0571

Without cause or reason, suddenly the fire of hatred was kindled. On the twenty-third of the blessed month of Ramadan, the wolves of the earth set upon the divine sheep. Without proof or evidence, such tyranny was unleashed that caused the realities of existence to weep. Those possessed of hearing can this day hear the lamentation of all things. They seized those who were the dawning-places of virtues and the daysprings of refinement.   BH00340

When the divine lion rushed forth from the All-Merciful jungle, he roared and bellowed with such force that the foxes of ignorance and the jackals stained from the dye-vat fled from the field, abandoning their schemes of deception and trickery. They stirred up the dust of tyranny and cruelty, scattered the soil of abasement upon their own heads, and now, in the corner of obscurity and silence, they mingle their moaning and lamentation.  AB07944

The winds of opposition have surrounded the Lamp of the Covenant, and the waves of violation and corruption have cast the Ark of Salvation into the whirlpool of the faithless ones' enmity. The whirlwind of rebellion circles round the Tree of the Covenant, and this servant stands alone and solitary, facing the onslaught of all with perfect steadfastness. The East is at war, the West contends, the South disputes, the North shows enmity.   AB01197

The divines in that land have put forth the hand of aggression and have surpassed in cruelty the Pharaohs who executed their victims upon the stake, and the people of Nimrod, Thamud, and 'Ad. They have closed the eye of justice, and with the darts of tyranny have pierced the hearts of the oppressed. They have set on fire the harvest of the wronged ones, and deemed it expedient to inflict upon them every cruelty, molestation, and torture  AB00627

Consider the divines of the age who, though they waited night and day for the Truth and would say from the pulpits "May God hasten His coming," when the horizon of the world was illumined with the Sun of Manifestation, all arose in opposition and strove with hands of tyranny and hypocrisy to preserve their leadership. They passed by the Truth and what pertains to Him, and remained content with their own idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH03268

In Baghdad, all the people continuously attacked the honored House - the clergy, officials and common folk - attempting through various schemes to seize this circumambulation place of the Supreme Concourse...All cried out that this is not a house - it is the Kaaba of the Baha'is and the sanctuary of the misguided ones. Therefore the government must demolish this edifice so that the foundation of the Baha'is may be scattered to the winds.  AB01348

In this age and dispensation, when the holy fragrances of the Cause of God have spread throughout the East and West, and the lights of sanctification of the Ancient Lord have illumined and brightened the kingdom of existence, a group of bat-like, darkness-seeking, dark-faced, Satan-natured people have set out to conceal the brilliant Sun behind veils of fancy and clouds of darkness, and to cut off that sweet divine fragrance with foul odors.  AB04469

This handmaiden of Thine who was attracted to Thy beauty spent many days as a target for the arrows of reproach in Thy path, and many nights while the stars kept vigil as she awaited the succession of arrows and the piercing of spears in her breast for her love of Thee. Relations grew distant from her due to her nearness to Thee, loved ones shunned her for her love of Thy beauty, sharp tongues stabbed her for her attraction to Thy fragrances.  AB12089

Know thou that they who were veiled behind the veil feared for themselves. Yet when We raised up the Cause and the breezes of assurance wafted from the direction of the All-Merciful, they then rose against Me with swords of hatred and showed no shame before God Who created them from fetid water. Thus was their rebellion against Me and their transgression against God Who created all things by His command, and verily He encompasseth all things.   BH01023

How can I cast upon all created things the signs of the glory of Thy sovereignty when the idolaters have encompassed Me on every side and laid hands of bondage upon this luminous, mighty and beloved Mouth? And when I mention among them wondrous remembrances, it but increaseth the hatred in the breasts of these wicked ones... Know then that a sedition has appeared whereby the heavens of idle fancy were cleft asunder, the sun of creation darkened   BH00434

O Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones beneath the talons of hatred and Thy chosen ones under the swords of the enemies. I beseech Thee, O Protector of the world and Deliverer of the nations, to free them from the oppressors among Thy creatures and the tyrannical ones among the people of Thy realm. We make mention of thee at this hour when the Wronged One is seated upon the throne of prison through that which the hands of the oppressors have wrought.   BH00192

The hand of aggression was extended, and spies and watchmen were constant companions. The prisoner was imprisoned in another prison, and fresh torment and cruelty befell the oppressed at every moment. Threats were continuous and restrictions successive. Every officer was a Pharaoh and every governor a Nimrod. Secret telegrams were dispatched from a known center, and open attacks were made. Hearts were sorrowful, souls grief-stricken and dejected.  AB01450

The aforementioned Khwajeh is not a believer, but he has shown much consideration to the friends in this land and during the commotion that occurred in this land he stood firm. Since he is among the notables of the city and has now become the Russian consul, he has rendered assistance without dissimulation and shows the utmost affection. Sometimes he is present during the revelation of verses and listens with complete humility and submissiveness.   BH01798

From some souls who have attributed and do attribute themselves to the Truth, there hath appeared that which hath caused the greatest terror. We have said, and Our word is the truth: The affliction is not My imprisonment, nor what hath befallen Me at the hands of Mine enemies, but rather from those who claim attachment to My Person yet commit that which causeth My heart and My Pen to lament, and every informed one and every discerning one to weep.  BH00082

O Mother, Mother of the Most Holy, Most Great, Most Glorious Emigrant! Glory be to Thee, O my God! The lamp hath been surrounded by the winds of hatred and animosity - where is the glass of Thy protection, O Protector of the worlds? And Thou seest the Dove in the talons of the workers of iniquity - where are the manifestations of Thy power, O Thou Who art powerful over the worlds? Thou seest the Wronged One amidst the hosts of tyranny and hypocrisy  BH08851

Then, when they saw hundreds from their own rank with fire and zeal adopting the banner of Baha'o'llah, all the sects with one accord united to suppress this spirit which grew stronger with opposition. Driven to desperation they exhorted their followers thus: "Let us arise and kill these people, imprison their women and children and destroy them to the root. They seek to change the old, well-established order of things and nothing of us will remain."  ABU0306

Throughout all ages and centuries, the divines and doctors of the earth have been the cause of rejection and negligence, for the Dawning Places of Revelation and the Daysprings of the Cause, at first, behold all who are on earth at one station and one rank, and summon all from what they possess to what God possesses. These matters conflict with the glory and leadership of the outward divines, thus they arise in opposition, contention and disputation.   BH00443

Therefore in these days when ill-wishers have stirred up dust and engaged in slanders and hostility, making representations to the seat of the supreme sovereignty (may God strengthen it) that have caused disturbance of thoughts and agitation in all hearts... Despite this the hateful ones fabricate lies and the agitators spread falsehoods, every day striving to create corruption and whispering all manner of lies and enmity, casting us into the dark pit.   AB01091

From these associations it hath become clear that they have ever clung and continue to cling to the cord of calumnies. Their path is falsehood and their way of speech and utterance hath deviated from truth. According to her own words, during the time she was with him, he spoke but two words, and even these, by her own admission, were delirious. It is not known what she hath seen that she would use it to prove his authority and open the gates of calumny.   BH00530

In truth, this ephemeral one is astonished at what could be the cause of their agitation and the reason for their lack of assurance, when in the Ottoman domains this community was subjected to killing and all manner of tribulation, yet they held fast to beautiful patience. In no way was any corruption manifest nor any opposition seen. The world is bewildered as to what cause and reason they have arisen in opposition, objection, oppression and transgression.  BH00149

However, in Sirjan, the government authorities martyred Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Yahya, and in Tabriz, Mirza Hasan, the bloodthirsty mujtahid, became oppressive and issued a decree for the execution of all the friends. Two holy souls were martyred, and if the friends had not dispersed, all would have fallen prey to the sword. Likewise in Sangsar, intense agitation arose, and the oppressors stretched forth the hand of aggression and grievously wronged the friends.  AB00253

However, in Sirjan, the government authorities martyred Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Yahya, and in Tabriz, Mirza Hasan, the bloodthirsty mujtahid, became oppressive and issued a decree for the execution of all the friends. Two holy souls were martyred, and if the friends had not dispersed, all would have fallen prey to the sword. Likewise in Sangsar, intense agitation arose, and the oppressors stretched forth the hand of aggression and grievously wronged the friends.   AB00253

The deeds of the peoples have darkened the world. God, exalted be His glory, hath created mankind for the betterment of the world and the elevation of their stations, that all might become ready to hearken unto a Word at the mention of which both pen and ink stand powerless. However, a few have manifested such wickedness as hath had and hath no equal. Like unto wolves they have rent asunder His loved ones, hamstrung His she-camel, and caused His ark to sink.   BH01366

Say: O servants! Hearken unto the counsels of this Prisoner, which He imparteth purely for the sake of God. Fear not for your lives in the path of the Beloved, and be not dismayed by the manifestations of oppression and tyranny. By the Most Great Luminary! None of the peoples of the earth hath or shall have dominion over those who are assured of God, save over their outward bodies, and they have not and shall never have authority in the realms of the spirit.   BH00638

He endured every tribulation in his homeland from the wickedness of the enemies, until the most vicious foes assailed him for his love of Thy resplendent countenance. Thus was he compelled to migrate and depart unto the land of Taff, bearing every hardship and affliction until he reached the spot of Karbila--the land reddened by the purified blood of the chosen ones, its precincts perfumed by the sweet fragrance wafting from the blood of the Prince of Martyrs.  AB00272

Among the people are those who heard and responded to their Lord, and among them are those who heard but denied the proof of their Lord, the Goal of All Desires... Reflect upon the bygone ages and what befell the Manifestations of the Cause from every ignorant learned one and every cunning knower. By God's life! They denied the Prophets and Messengers and pronounced against them with such injustice as caused the heavens to lament and the mountains to crumble.   BH07399

In any case, although in these days the severity of tribulations has afflicted both shepherds and flock with an incurable pain and all are in the throes of anguish and regret, yet since these calamities have resulted from the zeal and fervor for abrogated verses and the inadequate religious edicts, therefore the unconscious people are somewhat awakening from their slumber and no longer carry ones like Ibn-i-Dhi'b to mosque and pulpit with flowers and perfumes.  AB02442

O beloved of my heart! Most astonishing of all is those who deny God and His verses. Yet this is not the first instance of opposition, nor the first denial, nor the first discord, nor the first hypocrisy, nor the first rejection, nor the first turning away, nor the first objection. Servants before have uttered what these utter now, and they shall speak even more grievously hereafter. But God will manifest His Cause as He has manifested it before, despite them.   BH01065

These days he has turned toward Iran and has pillaged Nab and Savujbulagh - that is, they have killed the men and taken the women and girls captive. Things have occurred that cannot be mentioned. Today, which is the last day of the blessed Feast of Sacrifice, Jinab-i-Mulla Abu'l-Hasan-i-Ardikani, upon him be the Glory of God, has written these details to this ephemeral servant. In any case, according to reports, the people of Tabriz are also in utmost turmoil.   BH00842

Glory be to God! Some fled like frightened wild asses before even attaining the presence of the Dawning-Place of Divine Revelation and the Speaker of Divine utterance, or hearing His Word. They drink from the pool of vain imaginings while remaining deprived of the choice wine of certitude. The Water of Life hath appeared and the Sun of Manifestation hath risen, while they move about behind green and white turbans, bowing down before and worshipping their idols.   BH00462

Consider what intrigues and whisperings the Azalis have. Some Azalis have started a "Jafari Committee" and outwardly pose as extremely devout Jafaris while constantly inciting and trying through various deceptions and whisperings to create discord and turmoil between Baha'is and other Iranians that will ultimately lead to bloodshed. Then they themselves will watch from the sidelines and rejoice that "Praise be to God, whoever is killed, it benefits the Azalis."   AB00572

This book is very good because from its phrases, allusions, title and stories, hatred, enmity, ignorance and rebellion are clear and evident. Anyone with the least fairness will realize upon first glance at that book that it stems purely from hatred and ignorance. Its vile phrases show clear enmity. In truth, it rejects all the religions of the world except for the Balasari sect, and from the context of its words it is clear that it has no respect even for that.   AB00507

Thou dost consider, O my Lord, how Thy dear ones are sore pressed by Thine enemies, and hearest from all sides their sighing by reason of what hath befallen them in Thy path. Thou knowest, O my Lord, that their one desire was to seek Thy face, and that the sole Object of their adoration was Thee. They who wronged them had no other purpose except to turn them away from Thee, and to extinguish the fire which Thou hadst kindled with the hands of Thine almighty power.  BH03389

Indeed, there is upheaval throughout all the countries of the world, but in Iran the ill-wishers are seething with intense jealousy. They observe that the Blessed Tree is growing day by day while the uprooted tree has no stability. Assuredly they are boiling with utmost enmity, and the enemies, especially the Party of Death, in their extreme decline and fall, spend their time in death throes and find no rest, but in the end they shall be disappointed and frustrated.  AB09515

The great majority of the doctors set themselves to repudiate Him, decreeing slaughter and destruction, and they induced Husayn Khan Ajudan-bashi, who was the governor of Fars, to inflict a beating on the Bab's missionaries, that is on Mulla Sadiq Muq'addas; then, having burnt his moustaches and beard together with those of Mirza Muhammad-'Ali of Barfurush and Mulla 'Ali-Akbar of Ardistan, they put halters on all the three and led them round the streets and bazaars.  AB00003

For thirty years the respected government in Azerbaijan protected the oppressed ones, and had it not been for this protection, the people would not have left a single one of God's loved ones alive. Such resolution, justice and magnanimity must not be forgotten, for in the time of the late Shah, when the people found but a small opportunity in Yazd, they engaged in such severe oppression, and had they found opportunity elsewhere, they would certainly have killed all.   AB00187

Whenever Thou didst preserve me, O my God, from one tribulation, Thou didst deliver me unto another, and whenever Thou didst save me from one abasement, Thou didst rear me for an abasement greater than the first, to such extent that no garment of humiliation remained except that Thou didst clothe me therewith, and no sea of hardship existed except that Thou didst make me drink therefrom, and no fruit of adversity was seen except that Thou didst make me taste thereof.   BH00925

This man thinks that he is uprooting the Tree of the Cause and does not know that he is promoting the Divine Faith. The Ancient Beauty has stated, "Whosoever arises to harm us is indeed a teacher of the Cause of God." This newspaperman writes, "Alas Muslims! With utmost audacity, these people have built their mosque in Chicago and erected their Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in the mid-heart of America! Is there not a Muslim left, or has Islam been robbed of its courage to protest?"   ABU0946

"Although the oppressors and tyrants have stretched forth the hand of aggression and stained themselves with the blood of martyrs, perpetrating such cruelty that they have eclipsed and made as though they never existed the bloodthirstiness of the evil Yazid, Shimr, Walid, and the oppression of Pharaoh, the stubborn Nimrod, and the severe Shaddad - for until now such savagery, ferocity, bloodthirstiness and tyranny had never been seen or heard of in the world of existence."  AB06605

When the Promise came and the Promised One appeared, the divines opposed Him and prevented the people from the Path of God, the Protector, the Mighty, the All-Wise. They would make mention of God from pulpits and in mosques, yet when the Dawning-Place of His Cause appeared, they arose in opposition, to such an extent that the heavens and earth lamented their actions. Some issued death warrants against Him, while others disputed the verses of God after they had been sent down.   BH07446

It is recorded in history that while Mohamad II was bombarding the wall of Constantinople and his victorious army were hastening the downfall of the Byzantium Empire; one of the Ministers of the State called on the Great Patriarch and found him much occupied over some manuscript...It is most natural that the Christian missionaries may write articles to disprove this Cause...There is a Catholic priest in Acca who has been and is still writing false statements against this Cause.  ABU0480

In these days when 'Abdu'l-Baha has hastened to the land of the Moon of Canaan, it has caused the agitation of the enemies, for they are certain that inevitably from this journey results and fruits will be obtained. In this land and region they have risen up in utmost agitation and rebellion, and in the newspapers and journals they continuously publish articles mixed with calumnies, that perhaps through these falsehoods they might conceal the divine resplendent lights from view.  AB01738

The blessed letter of His Holiness the Afnan of the Sacred Tree was like a penetrating light and a pervasive spirit... By God! My heart has lamented, My Pen has cried out, and My heart has been set ablaze by the oppression of My servants, the like of whom the eye of creation has not seen, nor the ear of possibility heard. In their tyranny they have reached a state from which Dhi'l-Jawshan, Ibn-i-Anas, and Ibn-i-Asbahi seek refuge in God, the Just, the Compassionate, the Generous.  BH02970

There was a missionary from Tabriz who happened to meet Lady Blomfield in London... He called at her house and spoke to her very freely against the Cause, trying to fill her mind with doubts about the Movement. Lady Blomfield listened patiently to all he had to say... Finally he asked her what she thought of all he had told her. She answered with great dignity: "What you have said is exactly the same as the Pharisees said concerning Christ; you are one of the Pharisees yourself."  ABU0314

Time and again these obsolete verses made this community distorted, yet still the people of Iran cling to their garments. My hope is that that noble person may succeed in establishing good order and bringing peace and tranquility to Iran. Praise be to God, the shameless chief of mischief-makers has been exposed, and it has become known from what source this secret sedition and corruption originated. But what benefit, when the prime minister became an intercessor for that evil-doer?  AB00358

O Pen! Reflect upon what hath befallen this Captive. God, the Tablet and the Pen bear witness that My sole purpose hath been the reformation of the world, the unity of nations, the advancement of existence and the upliftment of souls. Yet that which hath come to pass hath caused the Pen to tremble in its recounting. Since it hath occurred for the sake of God, it hath attained the station of life itself - tribulation in His path is rest, and calamity in His love is counted as bounty.  BH00266

What befell him in the path of God - he has endured great hardships: on one side the oppression of the polytheists and enemies, and on the other the oppression of the internal hypocrites - the latter oppression being greater and more severe. Thus after this matter was submitted in the Most Holy and Most Exalted Presence, the Tongue of Grandeur spoke this verse: "Indeed, as was said of old: The oppression of kinsmen is more painful to bear for man than the blow of a polished sword."   BH00527

O handmaid of God! Pay no heed to the derision, reproach and mockery of other peoples and former religions. In the days of Christ, they mocked a hundredfold more than this, and in the end they fell into manifest loss. Consider that although Christ's Cause in His day was confined to Palestine, it later encompassed both East and West. Observe, then, the Cause of the Blessed Beauty, which even now hath embraced all horizons. Therefore, attach no importance to the mockery of the people.  AB04858

Those souls who transformed righteousness and piety into tyranny and transgression We expelled from this city merely to protect them. In the great city they united with certain atheistic, opposing, idolatrous souls and committed that which caused the City of God to weep and the pebbles of the desert to lament. When they observed the Wronged One outwardly without helper or assistant, they therefore committed that which caused pen and tablet to pause from recording and bearing mention.  BH01764

They dishonored his noble body with unprecedented dishonor, stoning him, reviling him with the most abusive words, piercing him with the spears of denial, and shooting him with the arrows of pride. They prevented that blessed body from being covered by earth or buried in the cemetery of the people of that land. It remained abandoned and exposed to weakness, harm, stabbing and aggression until after some time they buried it under a handful of earth in a desolate place devoid of traces.  AB00463

Be assured that thousands of clergymen will rise in opposition, but as fire consumes and destroys the dry plants, so will the power of the Kingdom eradicate these souls. How many great men, dignitaries, kings, and clerical authorities rose up at the time of Christ (may my soul be a sacrifice for Him) and thereafter to oppose the Cause of God, and how their schemes failed and were thwarted! So it will be with these clergymen; they too will ultimately encounter disappointments and failures.  AB12283

This was after many disturbing reports arrived from Baghdad that the people of the neighborhood had extended the hand of aggression toward the House from every direction and had gone to the ambassador saying that this house was empty and had no owner, and that they were afraid. The ambassador sent someone to take the keys to the premises and to install his own secretary in that residence. Those associated with you were unable to live there and were compelled to leave and abandon the house.   AB02093

What is the fruit of man's existence in this world? What is the consequence of his life here? If it were not for suffering and afflictions borne in the path of the well Beloved, what other consolation is there in this ephemeral world? The righteous have surmounted tests like these and the free in spirit have tasted this exquisite ambrosia. The saints always wished for hardship and calamity in the path of the Abha Beauty and the pious have borne myriad upheavals for the Prince of faithfulness.  AB01973

From Iran, successive events are reaching us that cause sorrow and grief, and the friends of God hear this news with burning hearts and tearful eyes. According to reports, the fire of envy has so inflamed the hearts of the divines that they have lost all self-control. Without fear, they have kindled the fire of sedition and corruption, and without cause have raised the banner of enmity and hatred, staining their hands with the blood of the innocent ones and those near to the Divine Threshold.   AB00222

Glory be to God! What hath possessed these people that they should imprison the friends of God and cast them into dungeons? Thou hast seen that Name of God. By My life! He desired naught save righteousness and prosperity from God, glorified be His majesty, and in the nights and days he would beseech God, glorified be His majesty, for bounty, mercy, loving-kindness and compassion for all the peoples of the world. Naught but good was mentioned by him. Nevertheless, there befell him what befell him.  BH06839

"The manifestations of polytheism have arisen to conceal Its evident lights and hide Its mighty proof from view. They seek to turn Its spiritual springtime into autumn and fall, to render Its celestial power weak and feeble, to extinguish Its bright lamp and veil the purity of Its rose garden, to still the waves of Its boundless ocean and silence the call and melody of Its heaven, to hold back the outpouring of Its January cloud and prevent Its supreme paradise from infinite freshness and grace."  AB05730

They raised the banner of oppression and enmity, destroyed thousands of Baha'i establishments, and made thousands of blessed souls the target of arrows and spears. At least twenty thousand people were cut to pieces and plundered. They caused fathers to mourn for sons and left sons fatherless. They left children and women homeless. Even suckling infants had their throats cut by the dagger of tyranny and oppression. How many were tortured, punished, branded on chest and face, and finally beheaded.   AB00141

The Blessed Beauty - may my soul be a sacrifice for His loved ones - longed for tribulation and endured every oppression. The Divine Lote Tree was subject to the axe of persecution and trials. It is thus evident how this insignificant plant should be worthy and befitting. O friends! Do not falter, but rather recall the tribulations of Sinai, that ye may find the cup of affliction as a pure draught, and the bitterness of oppression and enmity as the honey and sugar of the paradise of good-pleasure.  AB02865

These are days the like of which no eye in all creation hath ever seen, and no soul among all created things hath ever perceived. At all times must ye take refuge in God, that perchance ye may remain safe beneath the protection of the Lord of the Day of Judgment from the schemes of the schemers and the deceits of the deceivers. For the craft of the plotters hath reached such heights that were all the pens in the universe to attempt to enumerate them, they would surely prove powerless and fall short.  BH09309

It is therefore evident what result these weak forces shall yield. At most, a few weak and mindless souls shall waver, but in the end this fire shall be extinguished. Read in church history the account of Arius, Patriarch of Alexandria - despite having a million and a half followers and the support of the greatest emperor, he was ultimately obliterated leaving no trace. Likewise, wherever there is carrion, inevitably some crows and base dogs will gather, but they shall eventually scatter and disperse.  AB00537

In the days of tribulations and afflictions, the friends in the East sacrificed their lives and endured every hardship and calamity. They sought no rest in any morning and desired no repose in any evening. By day they were under the lash, and by night beneath stocks and chains. One day their possessions were plundered and pillaged, another day they fell under torture. At times they hastened to the place of sacrifice, and at times they raised the cry of "O Baha'u'l-Abha" from the heights of the gallows.  AB00358

Now the birds of night cry out from the depths of doubts that the light of truth has vanished and the signs of the bounty of the Unity of God have disappeared, that the carpet of the All-Merciful has been rolled up and the tent of God has been utterly destroyed, that the breeze of bounty has been cut off and the light of the Sun of Guidance has become dark and obscure, that the horizons have been deprived of illumination and darkness like the hearts of that discourteous people has overtaken East and West  AB02242

Concerning what thou hadst written about the publications of him who hath calumniated God, all the Hands must unanimously designate one or two from among the Hands to respond to these calumnies, compose a treatise, publish it and disseminate it. Those souls in Istanbul resorted to every means and through the meaningless Jamalu'd-Din gained some influence. They used the unknown Jamalu'd-Din, due to his closeness to His Imperial Majesty the Sultan, as an instrument for all kinds of corruption and sedition.  AB04989

News has come that Iran is in great turmoil. In the middle of the night some savage people entered the home of Dr. Clock and Miss Kappes, locked the door, severely abused them, tied them to beds with ropes, and took five hundred dollars and everything else they had. Likewise in Hamadan there has been a great disturbance. Muslims, Christians and Jews have all become jealous and risen up to harm the friends, attacking the believers, forcing them to flee. They have seized some, abused them and imprisoned them.   AB02107

Despite this penetrating power and might, lost souls seek to extinguish the divine lamp and block the divine path, casting stones at the glass of infinite bounty. A thousand regrets that they are accustomed to heedlessness and deny what is evident. When the Cause of God was confined to Shiraz, they arose in opposition and sought to extinguish its radiant lights. They raised the banner of tyranny and unsheathed the sword of oppression, and with utmost power sought to uproot and destroy it, but they could not.  AB06548

When the luminous morn dawned from the horizon of the All-Merciful, those possessed of sight arose to sacrifice their lives, while the blind, like bats, arranged gatherings of opposition. One said "This is but a mortal like ourselves", while another uttered "He hath forged a lie against God, or is possessed." One declared "Will ye submit to sorcery while ye see it?", while another threatened "We augur ill from you. If ye desist not, we will surely stone you, and a grievous chastisement will befall you from us."   AB08918

Nevertheless, you witness the conduct of those associated with the government - how they daily inflict harm upon ones such as yourselves, whom all know harbor no ill intent toward anyone and who deal with God's servants with trustworthiness, love and kindness. Glory be to God! One is bewildered how they could consent to attribute theft to you who are among the most honored people of Iran, spreading it by word in that city and by telegraph to outlying regions, executing and carrying out whatever the slanderers say.  BH10754

Here, his enemies struck at him again. He was pursued by the watchmen; guards looked everywhere for him, asking after him in every street and alley, hunting him down to catch and torture him. Hiding, he would pass by them like the sigh of the oppressed, and rise to the hills; or again, like the tears of the wronged, he would slip down into the valleys. He could no longer wear the turban denoting his rank; he disguised himself, putting on a layman's hat, so that they would fail to recognize him and would let him be.  AB00002

At times in these regions they promise and give large sums of money to officials so that they may - God forbid - accuse 'Abdu'l-Baha of certain matters before the sovereign. At times they appeal to the Persian Consul, at times they send that old hyena of Burujird to the Ambassador in Istanbul, and now they have sent that cruel wolf to the Ottoman Ambassador in Tehran. That merciless one has sharpened his claws to tear Joseph of faithfulness to pieces through endless calumnies, accusations, lies, falsehoods and plots.  AB11836

In these days news has arrived that his honor Haji Haydar from Najafabad was executed by firing squad in Isfahan at noon prayer by order of the evil divines. In brief, if the present government desires divine confirmation, it must undertake retribution and justice. This matter is most important. All the friends in Najafabad, men and women, young and old, are disturbed by this incident. In Najafabad, Fath'ali Khan and his agents are showing the utmost aggression, transgression, oppression and tyranny toward the friends.  AB09307

During Our years of sojourn in Iraq, multitudes from that land and from other regions, both from among the learned and others, attained Our presence. No soul who came before Us departed bereft of the outpourings from the Most Great Ocean of divine knowledge, until the renowned divines became agitated, and all arose to extinguish the divine Lamp. They gathered in Kazimayn, and this servant Himself desired that all should assemble in one place and voice whatever objections their base selves had concealed in their hearts.   BH00524

When the divines of Tehran, at the time they entered Tehran from Qum with the Grand Vizier in their train, with the utmost pomp and circumstance and glory beyond description, and all the people of Tehran received them with the highest respect and illuminated the city for three days and nights, the friends of God were seized with the utmost fear and trepidation. For the divines, though they had for some time been utterly humiliated, were nevertheless in the extremity of pride and hostility toward the oppressed community.  AB10880

For in every age and century, when the Sun of Truth appeared, the divines, mystics and rulers rose up in opposition and exerted their utmost to extinguish the divine light. Consider ye the appearance of Christ - how the Jewish divines caused Him to suffer that which none before Him had ever suffered. Likewise observe how the divines of idolatry and the Gospel treated the Seal of the Prophets. I swear by the Sun of Truth that they inflicted upon Him that which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise to weep and lament.  BH10225

Consider the divines of Hijaz, and its men of letters and eloquence who lived in the time of the Messenger of God. For years they persisted in opposition and objection, and when they witnessed the penetrating power of the Divine Word in the early years, they finally decreed that no one should associate with Him and His companions, nor inquire about any matter from them. They even prohibited face-to-face encounters, clinging to the notion that these people were sorcerers and whoever turned to them would surely follow them.  BH04734

When the luminous morn dawned from the horizon of the All-Merciful, those endowed with sight arose to sacrifice their lives, while the blind, like bats, rose up in opposition. One said, "This is but a mortal like ourselves," while another uttered, "He hath fabricated a lie against God, or is possessed." One proclaimed, "Will ye submit to sorcery while ye see it?" and another threatened, "Truly, we augur ill from you. If ye desist not, we will surely stone you, and there shall assuredly befall you a grievous chastisement."  AB08918

"And if any persons should come to those parts without the permission and approval of 'Abdu'l-Baha, or if they should send letters causing doubts, you must resist with the utmost steadfastness and firmness, and avoid meeting with them. Just as after Christ certain persons arose who sought to destroy Christ's foundation but were ultimately frustrated and disappointed, likewise in this Cause certain persons will arise who will want to completely uproot the Cause, but they too will ultimately be frustrated and disappointed."  AB01707

At present and for fifty years the Baha'is in Persia and most regions have been under severe restrictions and the threat of sword and spear. Thousands of souls have given their lives in the arena of sacrifice and have fallen as victims under the swords of oppression and cruelty. Thousands of esteemed families have been uprooted and destroyed. Thousands of children have been made fatherless. Thousands of fathers have been bereft of their sons. Thousands of mothers have wept and lamented for their boys who have been beheaded.  AB00016

If you witness oppressive behavior from the ignorant masses, do not take offense or wish them shame, for they know not and are unaware of how in every age the oppressors have wronged the friends of God, and how the ignorant have persecuted His holy ones. Thus they commit injustice and perpetrate cruelty. The owls assault the falcon and pluck its wings without cause, asking Why do you remember that realm, or the palace and arm of that sovereign? Its only crime is that it is a falcon - just as Joseph's only crime was his beauty.  AB00026

Repeatedly have the embodiments of polytheism and hypocrisy attempted to extinguish the divine light, and with utmost might and power have they risen to inflict harm and perpetrated that which caused the greatest terror among mankind, imagining they could suppress the fire of the Divine Lote-Tree and extinguish the light of oneness. However, God drove them away through His power, His sovereignty, His grandeur and His might, and raised up His Cause despite them and those who denied the signs of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH04862

Indeed, the attacks and the obstructiveness of the ignorant but cause the Word of God to be exalted, and spread His signs and tokens far and wide. Were it not for this opposition by the disdainful, this obduracy of the slanderers, this shouting from the pulpits, this crying and wailing of great and small alike, these accusations of unbelief levelled by the ignorant, this uproar from the foolish -- how could news of the advent of the Primal Point and the bright dawning of the Day-Star of Baha ever have reached to east and west?   AB00198

The people of Iran failed to recognize God's blessing and denied it. Had they been endowed with true vision, they would have acknowledged what they have lost in a time unequaled by centuries and in days around which ages revolve. God, exalted be His glory, desired for all comfort, mercy, tranquility, bounty and freedom. However, the people of that land neither recognized nor appreciated this, and thus lost this supreme blessing, surrendering themselves, their religion, faith, station and dignity into the hands of the oppressors.  BH04615

Corruption and tyranny have ever appeared from these heedless souls. Some who have drunk from the ocean of guidance are like sight for the temple of the world, while others are like smoke, becoming a veil between eyes and the witnessing of the lights of Beauty. They imprisoned the Name of God without any crime or sin by the decree of those evil, heedless souls. With utmost tyranny they have seized some, banished some, imprisoned some, and plundered and killed others - every kind of torment have they inflicted upon these holy souls.  BH00488

When they circled round this Fire and acquired illumination from the lights of the Tree of Command through the power of the Lord of the Kingdom of Might, the hearts of mysteries were stirred, and the banners of hatred and enmity were raised against God's chosen servants, preventing them from turning toward their Lord, the Mighty, the Chosen One. O my God, my Master, and my King! There remains no land in Thy domains but hath been reddened with the blood of Thy chosen ones, and no tree but is adorned with the bodies of Thy loved ones.  BH00539

Now He has said: Let them proceed, trusting in God and content with His command and will, toward the ultimate goal, but they must act with perfect wisdom and hold fast to prudence. Repeatedly from the Tongue of Grandeur this most exalted word was heard: He says the Manifestation of Truth is for the revelation of the Most Great Bounty and the Greatest Joy, that all might attain His presence and drink from the Kawthar of reunion, but enemies and the bearers of hatred have become like clouds between the Sun of Truth and His loved ones.  BH04702

The people of blindness rose against Us with swords of rejection. When opposition reached its height, the Tongue of Unity spoke, after the door was closed and the veil drawn, saying - and His word is the truth: "The necks have grown long with hypocrisy. Where are Thy swords of vengeance, O Destroyer of the worlds?" Then did God raise up a people possessed of mighty strength who arose to aid the Cause with force and power. Thus did the hosts of oppression encompass Us, and there befell Us that which the pens are powerless to recount.   BH00802

When it was written to the despots that Aqa Siyyid Yahya the mujtahid was made a target of officers' bullets in Sirjan, the murderers must be avenged. And Mirza Fadlu'llah Nuri proclaimed rejection, cursing and condemnation, and spoke disrespectfully of the Primal Point and the Blessed Beauty Baha'u'llah, posting announcements on walls - he must be disciplined. And in Sangsar they stoned the friends - they must be threatened. And Mirza Hasan the mujtahid in Tabriz issued a fatwa to shed the blood of the friends - he must be punished.   AB02308

We summoned all to the truth and called them to the straight path. We counseled them to perform goodly deeds and to manifest praiseworthy characteristics, that perchance the fire of divine love might be ignited in hearts with a wondrous flame and all might be illumined with the light of recognition. We interpreted the Word of God--the Furqan--which distinguisheth between truth and falsehood, and made the people aware of its meanings. This matter became the cause of hatred and animosity, and they perpetrated what ye have seen and heard.  BH06408

This Wronged One has been and continues to be between the fangs of wolves. When the effulgences of the Sun of Revelation encompassed the world, a faction arose with sword and spear against the Desired One of all worlds. The call hath been raised, and the Wronged One hath ever been in the hands of enemies. The tyranny of the oppressors, the turning away of the deniers, the onslaught of the transgressors, the malice of the divines and the hatred of the rulers have not prevented Him from mentioning the Lord of Names and the Creator of heaven.  BH00285

The Blessed Beauty was preserved from a great calamity that bewilders the mind. Among the incidents was when the Blessed Beauty, along with eleven others, mounted horses and moved toward the fortress. Great commotion ensued and all the divines gathered in the mosque and had the Blessed Beauty brought forth. All the townspeople assembled--carpenters with their saws and axes, builders and laborers with their shovels and pickaxes, butchers with their knives and kebab-makers with their skewers--all gathered together. They issued a death sentence.  ABU0273

The party that today harbors no ill will or aggression toward any other party, and seeks health, comfort, tranquility and fellowship for the human world, is this oppressed party. Although the parties of the East are extremely aggressive toward this oppressed party, and every day in Iran they raise up a new disturbance, make slanderous pretexts, and the former religious leaders incite the masses to make a general onslaught and utterly destroy all these oppressed ones - yet you must pray that the friends in the East remain protected and preserved.  AB02870

Let not the cawing of the female polytheists nor the braying of the male polytheists disturb thee, for most people have turned away from Him Who created them for this Day and gave them glad tidings of this luminous, resplendent Manifestation. Among them are those who openly denied God and warred against Him and pronounced judgment against Him and were numbered among the polytheists. And among them are those who disputed His verses and denied His proof and rose up against Him with swords of hatred that were a thousand times sharper than swords of steel.   BH03455

We have heard from the heedless what no ear hath ever heard, and We have witnessed what no eye in all the world hath seen, and I am the True One, the Trustworthy. The heedlessness of some people hath reached such a state that the Supreme Pen is bewildered. For twelve hundred years they claimed to love and beseeched God, glorified be His majesty, for the meeting with the Promised One by night and day. Yet when the clouds were rent asunder by the finger of divine will and the Day-Star of Revelation shone forth from the horizon of the world, all turned away.   BH00463

During the years of My sojourn in Iraq thou wert circling round Me and didst witness how the peoples and nations rose up to slay Me, and how I stood alone amidst enemies like unto the sun in its splendor, never for a moment seeking concealment or refuge, for I beseeched God that I might be given to drink of the cup of martyrdom. Then did the hand of divine power raise up the tabernacle of victory, and the Sovereign Who doeth what He willeth vanquished the enemies. And now in this remote prison, behind a thousand mountains, We remain imprisoned and confined.  BH04846

In the early centuries of the Prophetic Dispensations, how many diverse and varied tales and traditions came to be! How many books of refutation were written! Even some of the Greek and Roman philosophers wrote and published books in refutation of the Spirit of God. It is evident that in those times, the words of philosophers were regarded among the peoples as divine revelation. In the end, all those books fell into oblivion - some of them remain in European libraries as sustenance for moths, while the melody of the glorious Gospel reached the ethereal heaven.  AB01908

When he walked through the streets and bazars, the people pointed their fingers at him, calling him a Baha'i. Whenever trouble broke out, he was the one to be arrested first. He was always ready and waiting for this, since it never failed. Again and again he was bound with chains, jailed, and threatened with the sword. Things came to such a pass that in the end whenever there was an uproar Mulla 'Ali would put on his turban, wrap himself in his 'aba and sit waiting, for his enemies to rouse and the farrashes to break in and the guards to carry him off to prison.  AB00002

This servant submits that the promise and offering of worldly riches to secure the release of the prisoners is not permitted in these days. On two occasions this evanescent servant heard two statements from the Tongue of Grandeur. One day He said: "O servant in attendance! The people of God must today remember this blessed verse which was previously revealed to the Seal of the Prophets, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake." His exalted Word: "Our Lord! Pour forth upon us patience, make firm our steps, and help us against the unbelieving people."   BH00229

"When the deniers witnessed that the verses had been sent down from the heaven of Command and had encompassed the worlds, they arose to slay Me. When the hosts of victory descended and God preserved Me from their evil, they arose with another plot through what Satan had whispered in their hearts, and thus was the matter, wert thou of them that hear. They fabricated against Me that which beseemed their own selves and attributed unto Me that which their own souls and hands had committed, that they might cast the fetters of the Youth into the hearts of the unitarians."  BH00980

Consider that two despotic governments strove for years to uproot and destroy this exile, especially 'Abdu'l-?amid... But this servant placed his trust in God and resisted with all his might and remained steadfast. In the end their vast palace was laid waste while this servant's weak foundation became manifest. They scattered their crown and throne to the wind, and despite two million troops were vanquished and defeated, while this servant, without helper or assistant, alone and single, was imprisoned in the fortress of Akka in a state of captivity and helplessness.   AB00196

Although the effulgent rays of the Sun of Revelation have encompassed the world and His verses have adorned cities and lands, and in every direction the Standard of His Revelation has been raised aloft and from every quarter the voice of the One Who conversed on Sinai can be heard, yet again some of the heedless have returned to their first step. Glory be to God! The Finger of Power rent asunder the veils and tore away the shrouds, yet still the croakers seek anew to afflict the hapless people with veils thicker than those before and shrouds greater than those of old.  BH11873

On the twenty-third night of Ramadan, a great cloud of dust and smoke arose from the hatred and malice of the deniers and opposers, such that it veiled, nay obliterated, the effulgent rays of the Sun of Justice. Two helpless and unaided souls, Aqa 'Ali and Aqa 'Ali-Asghar - upon them be the glory of God and His favors - were seized without cause or reason in the mosque of Shaykh Hasan-i-Sabzivari. They were taken with utter humiliation by the deputy of the governor, Haji Na'ib, before His Excellency, where they were subjected to various punishments and then imprisoned.   BH01128

It is indeed strange that instead of offering thanks for this bounty, which truly derives from the grace of Almighty God, by arising as one in gratitude and enthusiasm and praying that these noble purposes will daily multiply, some, on the contrary, whose reason has been corrupted by personal motives and the clarity of whose perception has been clouded by self-interest and conceit; whose energies are devoted to the service of their passions, whose sense of pride is perverted to the love of leadership, have raised the standard of opposition and waxed loud in their complaints.  AB00004

People imagine that the power of God's Cause is confined to those souls who are under its shadow, therefore they rise up to uproot and destroy it, for they observe that the Party of God is very small compared to other parties. For instance, today the party of idols numbers one billion, the Christian party four hundred million, the Jewish party one hundred million - the Party of God is few in comparison to them. They see the Party of God as weak, and since they view the power of God's Cause as confined to this small party, they therefore rise up to extinguish the divine light.   ABU0796

"Consider that in Iran, both nation and government previously arose with utmost might to extinguish the divine lamp, raised the standard of tyranny and oppression, demolished thousands of Baha'i establishments, and made thousands of blessed souls targets of arrows and spears. At least twenty thousand were cut to pieces and plundered. They made fathers mourn for sons and sons fatherless. They left children and women helpless. Even nursing infants had their throats cut by the dagger of cruelty and oppression. How many were tortured, punished, branded on chest and finally beheaded."  AB00132

Several others disappeared completely, and it is not known what calamity befell them. About a thousand people from Yazd fled to the wilderness and desert, and some perished from severe thirst in the mountains and plains. All properties were plundered and looted, and tyranny and injustice so utterly destroyed the foundation of these oppressed ones that the families, dependents and children of those innocent martyrs spent several days in basements, weeping, burning with grief and trembling, hungry and thirsty. They could not even ask for water, and no one showed mercy except to inflict wounds.   AB00040

The Governor of Beirut, Khalil Pasha, sent Abdul Rahman al-Hut as his representative to 'Akka to investigate me. When they summoned me, the friends intended to accompany me to the government house and its palace, but I did not approve and said, What benefit is there in your coming? Whatever they wish to do, they will inevitably do, and it is better that I go alone. When I reached the governor, he showed me an official telegram addressed to 'Abbas without titles and said, We have received news that two foreigners have sent you harmful political documents. Where are they and where are the documents?  ABU0243

During the Shah incident, how much they tormented the friends! Among them was a Tabrizi man whom they tortured to reveal other believers but he would not. They cut off his nose, cut off his ears, tore his ears with pliers, finally flayed his scalp and poured lime on it, and after all this poured hot oil - at last he died. Later when they caught believers they did not torment them as much because they would not confess. There was a Qumi Seyyed Motavalli-bashi. That wretch caused great harm to many believers. They branded him eighty times to make him confess - whoever confessed suffered more torment.  ABU0269

There was one named Mustafa Effendi, the director of correspondence, who constantly engaged in writing polemics and inciting people against us. He had so influenced the governor and aroused his enmity that he had girded up his loins with all his might to uproot and destroy us. The more kindness we showed to the governor, the more his rebellion increased. One day, he gathered all the notables of Akka - the judge, the mufti, and everyone else who opposed us and harbored enmity - in the government house, and had devised a scheme to create an uproar and tumult that day, leading to pillage and bloodshed.  ABU0176

We sent a message to the divines in the Holy Shrines saying that if they wished to understand our Cause, We were ready to manifest whatever they desired, and if their intention was to create tumult, then by God, the All-Protecting, the Self-Subsisting, I would send two persons who would chase them all to the gates of Karbila. He said: We told them to have all the divines unite and request one verse, and write that if what they requested appeared at the appointed time, they should cease their persecution and oppression, and if it did not appear, they could pronounce Our Cause false. But no one came forward.  BHU0028

At all times ye must take refuge with God, that perchance ye may remain preserved through the protection of the Lord of the Day of Judgment from the schemes of the schemers and the deceptions of the deceivers. For the schemes of the schemers have reached such a point that if all the pens in the celestial realm were to attempt to enumerate them, they would surely prove powerless and fall short. And if they should grow weary or unable to deceive while people are awake, they resort to the realm of sleep and make mention of dreams, that perchance they might cause some innocent soul to stray from the straight path.  BH11819

Reflect upon that to which people cling today - in truth they are worshippers of the calf while counting themselves among the people of unity. The Supreme Pen beareth witness that the Furqan, which was the separator between truth and falsehood, dissociateth itself from those souls who claim connection to it. Verily it was revealed to establish the Remembered One and testified to the Promised One. Yet when the Remembered One came and the Promised One appeared, those servants who had been reading it night and day denied Him. Fie upon them and upon their leaders who led them to the fire while they perceived it not!  BH04992

O Muhammad-Taher! The Wronged One makes mention of thee at a time when sorrows have surrounded Him from the dawning-places of idle fancies and vain imaginings of those who claim knowledge without clear proof or evidence. These are they who would mount the pulpits to make mention of God, the Lord of creation. When they concluded their remembrances with mention of the Proof, they arose and said May God hasten his advent. Yet when the veils were rent asunder and the clouds parted, they arose in opposition until they pronounced their verdict against Him with such injustice as caused the trees in the mountains to lament.  BH00051

In sooth, there will be found in those regions certain persons like the Pharisees of the time of Christ, who, night and day, will exert themselves with all heart and soul to cast forth doubts, in order that they may deprive the souls of the glad-tidings of the Holy Spirit. They will disseminate false rumors and utter many a calumny and will publish and announce (false) stories. They will undertake all these only for the sake of earthly vanities. And some Pharisees among the missionaries of the Gospel will hasten thither from Persia and say, "We are aware of the secret of the matter." All they may say is sheer slander.   AB02290

In short, this person [Mustafa Bayk] was most antagonistic [towards the Faith]. Hand in hand with the Mutasarrif, he wrote many calumnies to Beirut. They returned the same report from Beirut. To deflect the situation from himself, the Mutasarrif forwarded the report to Me through an intermediary. His purpose was to exact money from Me. However, I paid no attention. For this reason, the Mutasarrif confirmed the accuracy of the report and wrote, These illustrious personages [i.e. 'Abdu'l-Baha and other Baha'is] are trying to convert me to the Babi Faith. Additionally, he ordered that the [Baha'i] children be beaten in the streets.  ABU0195

How the Jews and even the Romans refused to have him buried in their cemeteries, and at last he was interred in a dung-hill which they now call Golgotha. How in the second century after Christ some of the so-called learned people sprang up and wrote many books in which they denied Christ and his appearance among the people. They have not seen anything yet. They will be attacked by all the people around them, ridiculed and despised for his sake. A great many books will be written against them and the papers will attack them very severely. A woman of great ability will write an article against the believers full of lies and false things.  ABU0169

Recently Siyyid Jamalu'd-Din [al-Afghani] has announced that the Baha'i Faith intends to destroy the foundation of the world and aims at obliterating all religions. For instance, he has alleged that, 'The religious beliefs of Baha'is and the teachings of Baha'u'llah are: the destruction of all Islamic mosques, Jewish synagogues and Christian churches; the annihilation of the Baytu'l-Haram and the Baytu'l-Muqaddas; the burning of the Qur'an and the Bible; the eradication of all evidence of religious attainments; and to dislodge the Qajar and the Ottoman dynasties. These are the ordinances of their Books and the religious beliefs of Baha'is.'  ABU3677

As for Professor Browne, we showed him the utmost kindness and he was very grateful, praising extensively in his first book. But afterwards enemies in Persia surrounded him and flattered him beyond description, to the point where one of the enemies became his secretary and was with him in London. He imagined that friendship with enemies would bring him credibility, but soon he will understand it is clear loss and will regret it. Do not be sad - you will see many such people in the future who will criticize and reproach you for your love for me, just as happened in Christ's time. We have millions of such enemies - what importance does one more have?   AB01188

In the future, people will inevitably arise to oppose the Cause and write treatises against it. But what fruit will these efforts bear, except to make the people more aware and better informed of the Cause? In Persia, the divines and other leaders have written many books in repudiation of this Cause, with the aim of uprooting it and completely obliterating the foundation on which it rests. Among these people was Haji Muhammad Karim Khan, who wrote several books to that end - but they have all been totally forgotten, while the Cause of God has gained renown in both the East and the West, and been promulgated amidst the peoples and kindreds of the earth.  ABU3668

O Thou Lord! Glory be to Thee, O God of Names and Creator of earth and heaven! I beseech Thee by Thy greatest signs and by Thy light that shineth from the horizon of the heaven of Thy will, O Lord of all beings, to assist Thy loved ones in that which will cause Thy Cause to be exalted amongst Thy servants and Thy decree to prevail throughout Thy lands. O Lord! Thou seest them in the hands of the oppressors among Thy creatures who have violated Thy Covenant and Testament and have reached such a state of wickedness that they have pronounced judgment against them with such tyranny as hath caused the people of the cities of Thy justice and bounty to lament.  BH01031

In Iran they have assailed the friends, plundering their properties and imposing enormous fines, to such an extent that they were forced to disperse. Trials and tribulations have encompassed them from all sides. The general interpreters, bereft of justice and true religion, have cloaked themselves in religious prejudice and incite people against this oppressed community, claiming they defend Islam while being utterly ignorant of it. They present themselves as pure Muslims while fomenting corruption. They go before the clergy, wailing that the Baha'is have deviated from the way of Muhammad, asking why they should not uproot them and arrange for their execution.  ABU0328

A Motosarraf named Abdorrahman Pasha became most inimical against us. He did his best to find a pretext, no matter how inaccurate and thus sentence us to exile or other forms of punishment. One evening he called on the Mofti and told him that he has received a cablegram from the Sublime Port which states that Abbas Effendi's power has become so paramount in Acca that the influence of the local authorities has become negligible. Therefore some practical steps must be taken to stop the further spread of his power. The first thing to be done tomorrow is to close the shops of all the Persians, arrest them and throw them into the prison; then arrest Abbas Effendi himself.  ABU0393

Note ye that when, singly and alone, with none to second me, I upraised the call of God around the world, the peoples thereof rose up to oppose, to dispute, to deny. On one side, it is clear how the religionists of the past have mounted their attack at all points; again, there cometh word of the lying mockers and the extreme limits to which they are going to pull out the Divine Tree by the roots. What malicious and slanderous charges they bring against the Ancient Beauty, what pamphlets filled with wicked and depraved allegations they are busily writing and spreading against the Most Great Name! And now, in deepest secrecy, they are straining every nerve to deal this Faith a fearsome blow.  AB00073

Adverse winds have surrounded the Lamp of the Covenant, and the waves of hatred have encompassed the Ark of Salvation. The darkness of night seeks to resist the shining light, the dung beetle of the ash heap seeks to destroy the nightingale of the rose garden, and the ill-omened owl would rival the eagle soaring to the heights of the Eternal Living One. The insects would darken the sunlight of the Covenant, and the bats call the manifest light darkness. Therefore, they have arisen from every direction to create corruption, have raised the dust of sedition, and have made vigorous attempts that perchance by these contrary winds they might extinguish the bright lamp and tarnish the pure gold.   AB00280

For some time this land was greatly disturbed. He intended to close the shops of those who were engaged in trade and imprison those souls in a special place. He held a meeting at night and in the morning intended to carry out his inherent evil designs. After sunrise he went to the market himself to close the shops, but observed that none of the friends' shops were open and none had come to the market, unaware that the All-Knowing, the All-Informed had taught them. In any case, he then sat in a place in the market waiting for the friends to come so that after they opened their shops he could harass them, when suddenly the telegram of his dismissal arrived and was handed to him in that very spot.  BH04769

Among them were those who clung to the notion that what al-Baqir had related concerning the signs of the Manifestation had not appeared, and likewise what a?-?adiq had uttered they had not witnessed. Thereby did they deprive themselves of all good and stood at the brink of the pit of polytheism, bereft of truth. And among them were those who said: "It hath been established with us through multiple transmission, as set forth by the Imams of religion and the Four Gates, that the Qa'im will not be born but is living and will appear when God wisheth and willeth. But he who hath appeared was born, and we shall not believe in him even if he should bring forth every sign or manifest a matter that would render all worlds impotent."   BH00569

But alas, a snake will not become a friend, and an owl will not become a royal falcon perched on the arm of the king. You strove for reconciliation, but a hypocrite will not become sincere, and savagery will not become civilization... The result was that in Paris he secretly formed connections with strangers... Upon arrival in Tehran, he joined with other snakes and made several others his confidants and intimate friends. Outwardly he was part of the Unity Assembly but had hidden intentions... until he caused this great mischief that nearly made the divine friends fall upon each other, and through this means the enemies could completely demolish the divine foundation and set traps from every direction to catch the divine friends.   AB03228

Time and again it has occurred that certain ones, motivated by ulterior purposes, have opened their tongues in calumny and attributed corruption to this community, claiming that - God forbid - the intentions of these helpless ones are thus and their corruptions are such; that they harbor seditious thoughts and are possessed by the passion for tumult and infamy; that they - God forbid - desire uprising. Due to such accusations they became objects of wrath and targets of punishment and chastisement, to such extent that whoever wished stretched forth the hand of aggression and tested the strength of his arm and grip. Some were arrested, groups were imprisoned in chains, and due to accusations, this entire company was scattered by calumnies.  AB00115

He composed absurdities of his own making that would make even the bereaved laugh. The endorsements in the book are all from Shi'ite divines, and these endorsements themselves attest to this fact. The author seeks to ingratiate himself with the eminent leaders of the Shi'ite party and thereby derive benefit from them. All these machinations are from the Iranian mujtahids and Arab Shi'ites in Iraq and Persia. When you examine the contents of the book, it will become immediately evident that they are fabrications by the people of hatred, and the proof lies therein. In Persia, the religious scholars have composed many similar works, printed them and distributed them among the people, but they have only increased in punishment and tribulation.  AB11408

Later, the beauty of the countenance of the Friend of God appeared from behind the veil, and another standard of divine guidance was hoisted. He invited the people of the earth to the light of righteousness. The more passionately He exhorted them, the fiercer waxed the envy and waywardness of the people, except those who wholly detached themselves from all save God, and ascended on the wings of certainty to the station which God hath exalted beyond the comprehension of men. It is well known what a host of enemies besieged Him, until at last the fires of envy and rebellion were kindled against Him. And after the episode of the fire came to pass, He, the lamp of God amongst men, was, as recorded in all books and chronicles, expelled from His city.  BH00002

When Moses came, Pharaohs opposed Him and pronounced judgment against Him without any clear proof from God, the Forgiving, the Merciful. Then remember when the Spirit came, the Jews rose against Him with such tyranny as caused the dwellers of the Kingdom of your Lord, the Possessor of this wondrous Day, to lament. Then remember when Muhammad, the Apostle of God, appeared with clear signs: the people denied Him and committed that which caused the denizens of the highest Paradise and the companions of the Crimson Ark--who offered up their souls and all they possessed in the path of God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment--to weep. No Messenger appeared but the people turned away from Him, and no Prophet came but they denied Him and stoned Him with the stones of their idle fancies.  BH03132

They shed blood and cut the throats of the loved ones, uncovered the heads of women, and tore all to pieces. They committed such injustice as had never been heard of in former ages. How hard, O my God, are those heedless hearts! How base, O my Beloved, are those degraded souls! How dark, O my Lord, are those savage wolves! How brazen, O my Support, are those ferocious beasts! They were not content with shed blood, nor with wounded hearts, nor with pierced livers. Rather, they increased in tyranny and rebellion, burning bodies and oppressing orphans. They intensified their assault upon the women in their chambers after dispersing and killing the men, and they exceeded all bounds in destroying children. They kindled fires in the homes of the people of certitude until they reduced the living to a barren plain of ashes.  AB12111

In the Great City, He hath, in these days, thwarted the proponents of the Evil One and exposed their mischief for all to see. He hath completely extinguished that fire and caused their tale to be erased from memory. Indeed, the gathering of the worst mischief-makers and fiercest calumniators of the Blessed Beauty in such a significant location, their incessant efforts by every means to bring ruin to the Cause of God, and their resorting to all manner of whisperings and machinations posed a grave danger to the Cause and provoked grievous malice against the loved ones of God. They had firmly pledged, one and all, to throw this land into turmoil. Through the intermediary of Jamalu'd-Din-i-Afghani, they had penetrated all the ministerial circles. By the aid of that person, they had even gained access to the private royal quarters.   AB00116

These words of censure and severe addresses are also recorded and extant in books written in refutation of this Cause during the time of the deposed Sultan. During the reign of Abdul-Hamid, time and again petitions were submitted to the Imperial Court from enemies both known and unknown, claiming that this servant was in league with the Ottoman liberals and was expending effort day and night to destroy the foundation of independence. Time and again, investigative committees came from the Imperial Court and subjected this servant to restrictions, interrogations and torments, inflicting severe injuries. In prison too I was surrounded by satanic spies, confined with wardens and guards. Every day there were coded telegrams, and every evening ominous events would unfold. At times there were threats of exile to Fazzan, at others intimidation of drowning in the endless sea.  AB00124

Even stranger than this, some foolish ones follow them seeking the means of life and salvation. And this Most Great Revelation, despite manifesting with such power that the kingdom of existence was astounded and all tongues spoke its praise and glory, for forty years the learned and distinguished of all the world and the most erudite of nations would present themselves in the Most Holy Court, each asking about the most abstruse divine questions and the most difficult philosophical matters, and all received convincing answers, such that all acknowledged and still acknowledge the waves of knowledge from the presence of the All-Glorious. Beyond this, there was an ocean of verses surging from the pure mouth. Despite all this, they imagined a limited drop comparable to this Most Great Ocean, and considered a lost particle equal to the Pre-existent Sun. If only they had been content with this much! But they thought what they thought, and turned away and showed pride before the Lord of all worlds.   AB01532

Mirza Muhammad Ali exerted his utmost to bring about my exile from Akka, in the vain hope that in my absence the believers would obey him, or that he would be protected! But he is too heedless to know that in case my life is destroyed, he too shall be afflicted with a great calamity.... Mirza Muhammad Ali went even so far as to occasion the shedding of my blood. That is, he sent Jamal directly from here to Tihran. The latter went to the Ottoman Ambassador and said that he 'had lived for years in the Turkish countries and enjoyed the blessings of peace and freedom under that government; that he had thereby become such a well-wisher of Turkey that in order to express his gratitude to the authorities, he deemed it his duty to inform them of a matter which is vital to the protection of Turkey,' etc. Then he said to the Ambassador of that 'vital matter' to wit: 'Abbas Effendi has brought the British people into Akka and is considering turning over Syria to Britain, that he is in cooperation with the young Turk party, the Sultan's enemies,' etc.  ABU0719


When the Commission of Inquiry came [in 1904], they made matters difficult for us. They closed the roads, installed a magistrate, guards and gendarmes and made us the object of their slander and calumny. All of our enemies in or outside 'Akka now became informants, preparing reports to send to Istanbul. The very people that had instigated this event were now appointed as investigators and inquisitors. It should be obvious what was wrought by these people. For instance, they wrote that I had established a new sovereignty in 'Akka and had built a fortress on Mount Carmel. They accused Me of raising the banner [of the Greatest Name], circulating it in 'Akka and then exporting it to the various Arab tribes and factions through Mirza Dhikru'llah in Galilee and Shaykh Mahmud ['Arrabi]. The illustrious personages [i.e. members of the Commission] announced this as a grievous matter. Our enemies then wrote them that 'Abdu'l-Baha had raised the standard of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" and then appeared before the Commission of Inquiry to testify to the validity and accuracy of this charge. To affirm this falsity, they even arrayed a line of other witnesses. Mirza Muhammad-'Ali had the Greatest Name scribed by some on a piece of white cloth which he presented to the Commission of Inquiry [as evidence]. The chief of the Commission announced, "Sultan 'Abdu'l-Hamid has promised me the governorship of Beirut, and my first act will be to crucify 'Abdu'l-Baha at the gate of 'Akka!" Then by telegraph they inquired if an uprising would ensue should 'Abdu'l-Baha be sent to Fizan? The reply was negative.   ABU0533
After declaring His mission, Baha'u'llah was immediately subjected to severe persecution. The Shah of Persia and the religious authorities opposed Him vigorously. He was imprisoned, His properties were confiscated, and He and His family were exiled from place to place.  ABU3765
 
