The Bayan itself curseth you and disowneth you, O ye that are veiled!   BH05464

Fie upon the people of the Bayan, for they have exchanged the bounty of God and sold the Lord of Lords for a handful of dust, without any proof or scripture. Thus did their evil souls entice them to object to God, the Single One, the Mighty, the Praised. Behold their words and what floweth from their pens. By God! It testifieth against their own selves, yet the people remain heedless. Say: Praise be to God Who hath delivered me from the wrongdoing people and taken my hand with the hands of His power and brought me forth from among the company of the polytheists and purified my heart with the waters of His loving-kindness and sanctified me from the defilement of these deniers who claim faith while disbelieving in Him through Whose finger's motion all religions were abrogated and the laws of mighty glory were renewed. BH02919

Today Satan calls out in the name of the All-Merciful, and the deniers among the people of the Bayan are busily engaged in leading people astray with the utmost deceit and guile.   BH02036


O people of the Bayan! On that Day which is the King of Days, God forbid that you should cling to your divines and leaders and thus remain deprived of the Goal   BH01595

Consider the people of the Bayan and their lack of understanding. They have denied Him by Whose name the heaven of the Bayan was adorned with the sun of wisdom and exposition.   BH03190

O people of the Bayan! Glory lieth not in placing green and white turbans upon your heads. Were glory to lie in this, then the camel that carrieth them from town to town should glory over all the worlds, for it beareth a thousand times what ye wind round your heads, O heedless ones!   BH02163

Thus doth He speak between heaven and earth and address the idolaters among the people of the Bayan, yet they are in mighty veils. O people of the Bayan! This is the Trust of the All-Merciful with which We have given you glad tidings at all times. Yet when He came to you with the truth, you denied Him.   BH00596

Among the people are those who recite the Qur'an yet deny Him Who revealed it in truth - they are indeed among the abased. And among them are those who recite the Bayan yet deny the All-Merciful... And among them are those who said He came before the appointed time, thereby objecting to Him through Whom the decree of the appointed time was established between the heavens and the earth.   BH02673

Know thou that most of the people of the Bayan have turned away from God and disbelieved in Him in Whom they had believed, and have clung to the cord of idle fancies and followed the ways of the deluded ones. We have found no people on earth more heedless than these, even after We commanded them in all the Tablets not to cling to anything created between the heavens and the earth at the time of the Manifestation. They have veiled themselves from those days with all things and have taken idle fancy as their lord instead of God, and thus were they among the prodigal.   BH00724

Though it is observed with absolute certainty that the existing ears are incapable of hearing, and likewise the eyes are not worthy of beholding. The people have become familiar with vain imaginings and idols. Consider the people of Persia: for one thousand two hundred years they spoke of vain imaginings, clung to vain imaginings, and held fast to their hem. And after the manifestation of their ignorance and heedlessness on the Day of Judgment, again the people of Bayan cling to and utter the same vain imaginings.  BH00592


Among the people of the Bayan are those who have turned away from God and objected to Him - they are indeed in age-old error   BH05429

O people of the Bayan! The names of the people will profit you not this day. Cast them aside and choose for yourselves a path unto God.  BH02960

God's wrath pursueth them, yet they rejoice. Are they the people of faith? Nay, by my Lord, the Most Merciful! The Bayan curseth them, yet they are thunderstruck.  BH00875

O people of the Bayan! If ye follow your vain imaginings, what is the difference between you and the people of the Furqan? Be fair in truth and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH03499

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and be not of the transgressors. Judge fairly concerning that which hath appeared in truth, and be not of the wrongdoers.   BH06249

Fear ye God, O people of the Bayan, and harm him not through your selfish desires and passions, neither slay him with the swords of your tongues, nor be ye tyrannical and wicked   BH05064

O people of the Bayan! Fear the Most Merciful and follow not those who have denied God's signs and His proof, and who turned away from Him when He came with manifest sovereignty.  BH00170

But alas, a hundred times alas, that the people of the Criterion and the people of the Bayan fell into the valley of ignorance and deprivation and, like bats, denied that shining moon.   AB06319

Now again the people of the Bayan are clinging to those same vain imaginings...God protect us and you from the evil of the barking ones who prevent people from this straight and manifest Path.   BH09034

O people of the Bayan! On the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, take ye heed lest ye behave like unto them, for ye have believed in Him and in His words and are among those who are certain.   BB00116

Today the people of Bayan are seen to be the most veiled of all people, for they cling to vain imaginings and hold fast to idle fancies. To this beareth witness the Book of God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH00365

O people of the Bayan! Where were ye when the Light was shining forth from the Supreme Horizon and the Manifestation was standing before the faces of all peoples? Fear God, O ye manifestations of idle fancies!  BH00520

Now again the people of the Bayan are walking those same steps. Say: O heedless ones! Reflect upon the fruits of the previous party, that perchance ye may become aware and roll up the carpet of suspicions and imaginings in the name of the Lord of all names.  BH02466

O people of God! The enemies lie in wait and strive to extinguish the divine light. Those who have turned away from the Bayan are observed to be far baser than those who turned away from the Qur'an. They have manifested an oppression without peer or likeness...   BH06359

O people of the Bayan! We have sent down for you the verses and manifested the clear proofs, and ye were commanded to that which would draw you nigh unto the supreme horizon. Ye cast behind you that which ye were commanded and took up that which caused the Faithful Spirit to lament.   BH01830

Now the people of the Bayan are occupied with those same vain imaginings. They have not reflected even this much on what was the outcome of the deeds of the Shi'ihs and what was their fruit. By God's life! They are accounted as transgressors in the Book of God, the True, the Manifest King.   BH04012

O people of the Bayan! Are you content to cling to vain imaginings like the people of former times throughout the ages, and ultimately to occupy yourselves with cursing and denouncing from pulpits the One Who is your Goal and Beloved, and to issue decrees for the shedding of His most pure blood?  BH00440

O most remote of all creatures! By what testimony did ye believe in the Bayan, and by what testimony did ye turn away from Him from Whose horizon shone forth the Sun of divine exposition? What aileth you? How do ye judge? Soon shall ye witness that which ye now deny. Fear God and be not among the lowly ones.  BH09748

O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and follow not every rejected transgressor and every veiled heedless one... Where, at last, hath fairness gone, and what hath become of justice? Through a brackish drop they deprived themselves of the Euphrates of mercy and were forbidden from the ocean of bounty.   BH03416

Those who object to the Self of thy Lord, and yet make mention of the Point of the Bayan - these dwell in the depths of the fire, and these, on that day, cast behind the veil of passion, are thrown upon the dust of self. Say: O people! Do ye make mention of the Sovereign of the Bayan while disbelieving in His Self?   BH00734

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and be conscious of Him in your own selves, such that ye neither associate with him, nor feel comfort in his presence, nor sit with him in gathering, nor be of the heedless ones. Flee from him unto God, your Lord, that God may protect you from him and from his evil and from his hosts.   BH00210

O people of the Bayan! Be the glory of the Point of the Bayan by entering into the religion of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Be content with your own effacement, else at the time of the appearance of Him Who shall appear after Him Whom God shall make manifest, to that same degree your existence will bear no fruit.  BB00005

By God's life, the Bayan lamenteth for what ye have perpetrated. Though divine counsel leaveth no impression and heavenly admonition beareth no fruit, for God's wrath hath seized them and the recompense of their deeds hath deprived them. By God's life, their mention is a deadly poison and their utterance a consuming fire.   BH04435

O leaders of the Bayan! Fear God, and let not leadership prevent you from this grace in this Day. Be not proud before God in what you possess, but hasten to the shore of a wondrous Name. In that Day, put not your trust in your deeds and actions, but trust in the grace that shines forth from a holy and resplendent horizon.   BH00782

Transgress not the bounds of the Bayan, for God hath angels to the measure that ye exceed who will take vengeance on you. And be watchful on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest lest ye judge those who believe in Him by the bounds of the Bayan, for on that Day all sovereignty belongeth in truth unto Him, and all abide by His command.  BB00003

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful and shed not the blood of Him Who aided you through the nights and days with the hosts of revelation and inspiration. When the Remembrance reached this point, I heard the lamentation of My Most Exalted Pen, whereby arose the wailing of the Most Exalted Paradise and the Crimson Ark, and the eyes of the righteous shed tears.  BH00026

Vain imaginings have deprived the world of the lights of the Luminary of certitude. The vain imaginings of the Shi'ih sect have been renewed, for the deniers of the Bayan cling to the conjectures of that sect. Glory be to God! What strange intoxication has seized the people of the Bayan! They have witnessed and heard the verses of God at all times, yet remain heedless and turn away.   BH05432

The deniers of the Bayan have recently desired to move and speak contrary to the Will of God. They have chosen for themselves the station of the Shi'ih. Alas for the servants! Their deeds give them the lie but they perceive it not; their words deny them but they know it not. They were previously Shi'ih - what then was the cause of their avoidance of it, and what now is the reason for choosing it again?  BH00075

O people of the Bayan! When ye attain unto the presence of that Day, hasten ye unto Him and question not concerning Him any lying sinner or one possessed of knowledge. Say: Beware lest ye deal with Him as ye dealt with the Point when He appeared with a manifest Book. Fear ye God and spread not corruption in His Cause, nor visit upon Him what ye visited upon this servant, for this was indeed a grievous error in the Mother Book.   BH01465

O people of the Bayan! Slay Me not with the swords of your rejection. I have come to you with the remembrance of God, your Lord and the Lord of all worlds. Fear God, O people, and spread not corruption in the earth after its reformation, and shed not blood. Thus has God commanded you in tablets of manifest glory. Dispute not concerning the verses of God after their revelation, and consume not the property of others unjustly.   BH01061

Watch then for Him Whom God shall make manifest, for ye prostrate yourselves before God. Say: We all prostrate to Him. Say: We all are devoted to Him. Say: All fear His justice and hope for His grace, and all are suppliants before Him. O people of the Bayan! Fear ye your own selves, for on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest, your inner realities shall be exposed and ye shall remain in your remoteness just as nations before you remained.  BB00003

O people of the Bayan! Be fair, by God, your Lord, the All-Merciful! Setting aside this divine Servant and the manifestations of eternal glory revealed in this Revelation, consider ye the entire Bayan and judge for yourselves. You who were not content with the judgment of Truth and what was sent down from His presence - yet Truth, if justice be observed, is content with your judgment, that perchance an eye might open in fairness and turn toward God.  BH00112

Therefore fear ye God! Enter ye, then, into that which God hath ordained for you in every Dispensation, and be not veiled from God by that which ye acquired in your former manifestations. Pronounce that Name upon those who believe not in God, your Lord, and who follow not what hath been sent down in the Bayan, if ye desire to behold them abased beneath your feet. Say: God shall, verily, seize with a severe seizing those who have not believed in God and His signs.  BB00003

Now certain ones among the people of the Bayan walk that same path and way. They have intended by their vain imaginings to afflict the helpless servants for another thousand years or more. The friends of God must gird up the loins of endeavor, that perchance the gates of falsehood may not be opened anew, and the cities of imposture not be built with the clay of suspicion. Soon will false preachers ascend the pulpits, and the possessors of wicked turbans busy themselves with intrigue.  BH02206

Do ye imagine, O divines of the Bayan, that ye are different from the divines who were given the Psalms? When God revealed the Torah, they remained veiled from God's Book, and God rolled up their religion while they perceived it not and deemed themselves to be virtuous. Or do ye think yourselves different from the divines who were given the Gospel? When God revealed the Qur'an they paid no heed. God rolled them up and all they possessed, yet they perceived it not and deemed themselves virtuous.  BB00003

O leaders of the Bayan! Fear ye God, and let not leadership prevent you from this bounty on this Day. Be not proud before God in what ye possess, but hasten ye to the shore of a wondrous Name. Trust not in that Day in your deeds or your actions, but trust in the grace that shineth from the horizon of holy radiance. Even now I witness that some among you take up prayer beads in your hands and make mention of God therewith, yet every morning and evening ye pronounce judgment against God Who created you.   BH00773

And if thou lookest into all religions, thou seest the dwellers of His paradise and His fire through their following the bounds of their religion or their being veiled. And thou shalt not present thyself on the Day of Resurrection before Him Whom God shall make manifest except through thy following the bounds of the Bayan. For if thou presentest thyself to Him while being veiled from even one bound, thou art veiled from thy religion - how then could it be fitting that thou present thyself before God thy Lord?  BB00005

By the life of God! The opposers among the people of the Bayan appear more veiled than all other peoples. They have returned to the first step. They speak according to their desires and by them seek to prove their case against God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.   BH00576

Glory be to God! Despite this, the followers of the Bayan are seen to be the most ignorant of all peoples and the most heedless of all religions. They have failed to comprehend the Day of God and remain heedless and veiled from that which the All-Merciful revealed in the Bayan. Souls who have not attained even a drop from the ocean of knowledge, like the opposer from Kirman and his followers, have wandered through valleys of fancy and idle imagination, remaining deprived and forbidden from the lights of the Morn of certitude.   BH00504

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of sanctification that the people of the Bayan appear more veiled than the people of the Furqan. After all exertions and the rending of veils, it is observed that this people cling to, hold fast to, and utter the same words which that rebellious and insolent group before them spoke.  BH00119

Consider ye the peoples of former ages and centuries: certain souls who clung to names and who, night and day, occupied themselves with disputation and opposition, accounting themselves the most learned of all peoples and the most excellent of all nations. Yet when the dawn of the Day of His Manifestation broke forth and the Intended One appeared, all arose to shed His pure blood, save a few among the Shaykhis who attained. The Supreme Pen beareth witness that today the veiled ones of the Bayan are many times more heedless than that party.  BH11646

When you believed in My Self and acknowledged My sovereignty and recognized My Book, We counseled you in all the Tablets not to do as did the idolaters from among Our heedless servants. Verily, We sent down the Bayan for no other purpose except to inform you of My Revelation in the dominions of the worlds. Yet when the Sovereign of Destiny appeared once again upon the clouds of decree, you denied Him and were among the deniers. You rejected what you had recognized, and turned away from that which you had accepted, and were among the idolaters.  BH11698

Then know that most of the people of the Bayan are still being nourished from the breast of heedlessness and ignorance - their weaning time has not yet come, much less their maturity. Thus have We been witness. Behold their lack of understanding and knowledge! They claim belief in the previous Manifestation, yet from My Own Self they remain veiled. They read My words, yet remain heedless of their Revealer. They cite My previous verses as proof against Me, though all of them proceeded from the Point of the Mouth of My all-pervading, all-encompassing Will.   BH00290

O people of the Bayan! Fear the All-Merciful and follow not your idle fancies. Follow the Truth, the Knower of things unseen, Who hath come from the horizon of power with the standards of His signs. Read, then be fair, and be not of those who behold the light yet deny it. That which was never manifest in the world hath appeared, and He hath come through Whose remembrance the Bayan was adorned, and before it the Qur'an, and before it the Torah, the Gospel and the Psalms. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of that which hath been manifested in truth. Cast away the people and what they possess, then your conjectures and imaginings.  BH00162

Those who are given knowledge desire to cut you off from your tongues, then to make you enter into the true religion, so that after your death you may not enter the fire and may walk in the good pleasure of your Lord in your life and after your death. When one has attained the age of nineteen years and is among the believers in God and what was revealed in the Bayan, God shall make manifest Him Whom God shall make manifest on the night when his age enters into the twentieth year. Should he hear of the Manifestation of God or witness His signs and not be assured, then whatsoever he hath gained before shall be changed into that which God loveth not to mention.  BB00003

For twelve hundred years the people of the Furqan (Muslims) clung to vain imaginings and idle fancies, depriving the servants of God from all the infinite divine bounties and heavenly sustenance, such that, as was witnessed, those imaginings and fancies caused the martyrdom of the Primal Point, may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake. I swear by the Sun of certitude that those fancies have been and will continue to be the cause and reason for the kindling of the fire of tyranny throughout the world. And now the people of the Bayan desire, through the same idle fancies of the past, to prevent people from drawing nigh unto the Dayspring of divine revelation and the Source of inspiration.   BH05094

O divines of the Bayan! Reject not one another in your questions, for God your Lord hath strictly forbidden this. Speak with modesty and write with modesty. If ye witness against anyone at a lower degree while placing yourselves at a higher degree, attract him with gracious words. For throughout your nights ye are magnified in God's shelter and protection, but on the first Day of Resurrection ye shall be tested. Should ye err in your questions and God wish to pardon you, naught shall diminish from your merit. Believe in Him Whom God shall make manifest, that He may correct all wherein ye err. But if ye err not even by a single letter in your words, yet should God wish to cast you into the fire and nullify your deeds, none could prevent it.  BB00003

O people of the Bayan! Now doth the Tongue of God speak from the Most Exalted Horizon, saying: O people of the earth! By what proof did ye believe in 'Ali aforetime, when He came with sovereign authority and was surrounded by the hosts of manifest glory? If ye believed in Him through the verses sent down unto Him from the immortal Kingdom - divine and wondrous verses - then by God, this is My Self and these are My verses that have filled the horizons with their splendor! Why then do ye disbelieve in that which ye believed in before, hovering on the brink of repudiation, though We counseled you in all the Tablets, nay in every line, to let nothing that hath been created between earth and heaven veil you at the time of His Manifestation?   BH00803




the people of the Bayan violated God's Covenant and turned away from the Lord of nations.   BH06978

But the people of the Bayan will not permit it - they have again clung to those same vain imaginings.   BH09034

Glory be to God! The people of the Bayan are seen today as the most lost among the peoples of the world.  BH11874

when the light of the Cause shone forth from every direction, the people of the Bayan arose in opposition   BH09567

By the life of God! The deniers among the people of the Bayan are seen to be more debased and rebellious.   BH04898

the people of the Bayan who clung to it while turning away from its Revealer, its Messenger and its Creator   BH07893

He was denied by the peoples of the earth and behind them the people of the Bayan who violated the Covenant   BH07516

For most of the people of the Bayan are fit only to worship the calf rather than prostrate before the Truth   BH06983

At times they cling to the Qur'an and at times to the Bayan, desiring to spread the carpet of past imaginings   BH01712

And the people of the Bayan pray and fast, but every hour they shot thousands of arrows at the illumined breast.  AB00543

Yet there befell Him at the hands of the wicked ones who claim adherence to the Bayan that which the worlds cannot bear.  BH09748

Some among the people of the Bayan likewise clung to vain imaginings. God protect us and you from the evil of such as these.   BH09687

The people of the Bayan have cast aside their Lord and taken hold of that which was commanded unto them by every crafty deceiver   BH10078

O Lord! Thou seest how the people of the Bayan have broken Thy Covenant and violated Thy Testament and turned away from Thy Beauty.  BH09736

Blessed is he who accepts, whom neither the doubts of the people of the Bayan deterred, nor the clamor of the oppressors frightened   BH05680

Were I to mention when the people of the Bayan rose up against Me - by God, I witnessed from them what no eye in creation hath witnessed.   BH07733


And when the light was somewhat manifest and the fragrance of utterance was diffused, the deniers of the Bayan rushed forth from behind the veil   BH09677

The harm to the Beloved of all possibility came from the people of the Bayan who, with the utmost effort and struggle, arose to waste away the Cause.   BH04661

The people of the Bayan waxed proud against Him - some denied and turned away, some arose in hypocrisy, and some pronounced their verdict against Him.   BH01153

O leaders of the Bayan, do ye deny Him through Whom your realities were created and your names were exalted? Fear God and be steadfast in the Cause.   BH00569

Yet the people of the Bayan rejected Me after I came unto them from the Orient of divine knowledge with verses that all the books of the world cannot match  BH09451

"Doth it beseem anyone to cling to the Bayan in his turning away from God, or to use it as proof when the All-Merciful hath come with His mighty kingdom?"   BH03508

Now certain ones among the people of the Bayan follow in the footsteps of the previous community. We see them as more lost than these, though they know it not.   BH02325

Verily, We behold the people of the Bayan who have turned away from the All-Merciful to be in greater loss than they on God's Day, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH02887

The deniers among the people of the Bayan are observed to be more lost than the Shi'ih sect. Thus have their souls deluded them, and today they do not understand.  BH09698

The people of the Furqan were seen to be the most lost among the parties of the world, and now the people of the Bayan are more lost than the people of the Furqan.   BH07421

O thou who art dawning from the horizon of the Bayan! Reflect upon that which the All-Merciful hath revealed, and reflect upon that which the heedless have spoken.   BH04519

Now too the deniers among the Bayan cling to the same vain imaginings. Whatever fruit the Shi'ih sect reaped from the tree of their deeds, these souls shall reap as well.   BH00317

despite the fact that the Herald mentioned completely the movements, stillness, words and deeds of this Wronged One, nevertheless all turned away and rose up in opposition   BH04141

Among the people of the Bayan are those who heard and saw, then went astray and were misled, having followed vain desires and denied Him in Whom they had formerly believed.   BH06067

Among the deniers are those who cling to the Bayan and turn away from the All-Merciful. Say: The Bayan is but My remembrance and My praise - read it, O people of understanding!  BH05148

Do ye object to Him Whom God hath made the Dawning-Place of His power and sovereignty, and made the Bayan a gift unto His Own Self? Fear God and follow not every doubting idolator.   BH10638

when the Sun of the Word dawned from the horizon of the Bayan of the Lord of Names, all who were in the Bayan turned away from Him save whom God, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, willed   BH07494

for certain among the people of the Bayan have clung to previous vain imaginings and turned away from the Truth. God smite them! It is not known by what they believed and by what they turned away.  BH07794

But when the Sun of Truth shed its radiance to some degree, the people of the Bayan arose in opposition and committed that which none had ever perpetrated from the beginning of the world until now.  BH06869

O people of the Bayan! By what proof did ye believe in the Primal Point and before Him in Muhammad, the Messenger of God, yet by what evidence do ye deny Him Who hath come from the Kingdom of verses?  BH03852

A few among the people of the Bayan, like dung beetles, have shunned this blessed fragrance and opened their tongues in denial from their pit of lethargy and obscurity. Leave them to their pastimes and playing.  AB06482

For each one I beseech steadfastness that may cause the limbs of the people of the Bayan who have denied our Lord, the Most Merciful, to quake, and who have uttered that which none of the ancients had uttered.   BH01198

When the Cause became somewhat manifest, the deniers of the Bayan emerged from behind the veil and rose up against the Lord of all beings, perpetrating that which no party among all parties had ever perpetrated.   BH05887

And when the light of the Cause had encompassed the horizons, the objectors of the Bayan emerged from behind the veil with designs against the Wronged One. Such is the conduct of the servants and the fidelity of that people.   BH04584

O friend! The people of the Bayan are veiled to such a degree that pen and tongue are powerless to describe it. They cling to the vain imaginings of the People of the Furqan and hold fast to the suppositions of the ignorant.   BH02380

Nevertheless, the people of the Bayan have denied these stations and cling to their vain imaginings, like unto the rebellious and tyrannical faction who hasten unto fancy and conjecture, turning away from the light of certitude.  BH01352

The Supreme Pen beareth witness that today the veiled ones of the Bayan are many times more heedless than that party. Guard thyself from the whisperings of these souls through the name of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Powerful.  BH11646

Thou hearest the sighs of the sincere ones and beholdest the tears of them that are nigh unto Thee, by reason of what hath befallen Thee at the hands of the people of the Bayan who have turned away from Thy proof and Thy testimony   BH00665

Whosoever opposeth these verses while claiming to believe in what was revealed in the Bayan shall be cursed by all who dwell in the heavens and earth, and by those who recline upon exalted thrones of glory in the Most Sublime Paradise.   BH00696

The Bayan was revealed for My sake and was adorned with My remembrance. Were it not for Me, not a single letter thereof would have been revealed, as attesteth he who hath opened his eyes by God's light, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH02391

Behold how the people of the Bayan read the Book and make mention of Him Whom We sent with the truth, yet oppose Him by Whom every mouldering bone was quickened. Behold these people - they are like those who passed before, nay more veiled.  BH00791

Pass by the people of the Furqan and observe the party of the Bayan, how some have objected to the Truth saying He hath claimed Divinity. Fie upon them and upon what their tongues have uttered! God hath sealed their hearing and their sight.   BH02142

By God the Truth! The Primal Point in the Supreme Horizon is bewildered, and weepeth and lamenteth over that which the hands of those who claimed faith within themselves yet disbelieved in God have wrought, and were counted among the idolaters.  BH01467

These shameless people - the followers of the Bayan - display no modesty but cling to the cord of falsehood and grasp the hem of calumny, that perchance they might deprive helpless servants of the rain of divine mercy, even as they did aforetime.   BH02356

The most degraded of all the peoples of the world have been and are those who turned away from among the people of the Bayan. They have denied Him Who brought that which is equivalent to all the divine Books, and they cling to their own vain imaginings.   BH05490

The evil ones of the Bayan have united with the evil ones of the Furqan for My harm and affliction. Fie upon them and that which they possess of satanic deception! Nay, Satan himself flees from these and seeks refuge with God from their evil and their plots.  BH02164

Not many days had passed, the words of Him Who revealed the Bayan were still ringing in all ears, and the traces of His pure blood still remained upon the earth, when they visited upon His very Self, His Essence, and His Spirit that which no people had ever wrought.  BH00004

People of the Bayan, in their own estimation, broke the chains of imitation and turned with perfect freedom to the horizon of divine unity. But when God's touchstone appeared and the Word of God was made manifest, they were found to be more veiled than all other peoples  BH08103

They say the Bayan has been corrupted, just as the previous party said and were cast into hell. Say: By God's life, ye have fabricated against Him Who created you and sustained you, and ye are accounted this day among the wrongdoers in God's Book, the Lord of all worlds.   BH04435

Consider the people of the Bayan: had they held fast to this counsel alone, they would not have hesitated in the Cause of Him at Whose advent the Holy Spirit cried out, "By God, the Beloved of the worlds hath appeared!" Some were veiled by mention of succession and the like.  BH00622

That which the people of the Furqan (Muslims) did, the people of the Bayan now cling to. They have intended to build imaginary cities with the hands of idle fancies and to deprive helpless souls of the choice sealed wine and the outpourings of His Holiness the Self-Subsisting.   BH02653

We have found the people of the Bayan more veiled than the people of the Furqan. They wander in the wilderness of error, turning away from God, the Lord of lords. The people of the Furqan, after their praise and anticipation, pronounced their verdict against the Lord of mankind.  BH00222

Nevertheless, the people of the Bayan, clinging to that which profiteth them not, have remained deprived of the Countenance of Divine Unity and barred from God's all-embracing Word. They have contented themselves with croaking and have turned away from the melody of the Supreme Pen.  BH00515

Before He made Himself known, they believed in Him, circled round Him, and prostrated themselves before Him. But when the veil was rent asunder and He shone forth at midday with the lights of God, the Most High, the Most Exalted, they scattered from around Him like locusts dispersed   BH02459

Fear God, O people, and deny not Him Who hath come to you from the direction of the Spirit with a most great, mighty Name, and Who summoneth you at all times unto God, your Creator, desiring from you no recompense, for His reward is with God, the Powerful, the Most High, the All-Knowing.  BH01937

But when the Day-Star of the Cause shed its radiance, a faction from among the people of the Bayan emerged from behind the veil and rose up against the Wronged One of the horizons. Thus did their souls entice them, and today they are among the most lost in the Book of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH00453

The deniers among the people of the Bayan are observed to be a thousand times more ignorant, more heedless and more wretched than those ignorant souls. They have turned away from a mighty Sovereign from Whose heaven of Will there has been revealed the equivalent of previous Books, nay more than that.  BH04857

Several people of the Bayan were likewise so bereft of hearing and sight that they remained remote from the dawning of such a mighty Luminary and clung to such a soul, turning away from Him upon Whose word the entire Bayan depends, on account of the words of a mirror who is but a creation of the Bayan.  BHU0005

By God, O thou who slumbereth! Thou hast indeed fabricated against God in what thou hast uttered, for the Bayan in its essence crieth out and lamenteth, and with loudest voice proclaimeth between earth and heaven, saying: "Not a single word revealed by Me can equal what hath been sent down from Him."   BH01041

The Author of the Bayan wept by night and day at that which hath befallen My Self at the hands of those who deny the All-Merciful... When the horizon of heaven was illumined and the Morn of eternity breathed forth its fragrance, the Desired One appeared, whereupon the people of the Bayan rose in opposition   BH05464

Would that the people of the Bayan had received from this servant the equivalent of what was revealed by the Point of the Bayan, and had kept themselves from calumnies. Nay, they will not be content with anything less than shedding holy blood. Thus doth their desire command them, if thou be of those who know.   BH00620

The people of the Bayan have clung to mere fancy and held fast to names, remaining deprived and veiled from that station through a single letter of whose Most Exalted Word the Kingdom of Names was created. Beseech ye God to transform weakness of vision into strength and grant a fresh light, that they might see and find.  BH11608

Nevertheless, those who turned away from the Bayan clung to names while remaining heedless of and turning away from their Creator and Lord. By what command, by what proof, and by what evidence did they accept the Bayan while inflicting upon its Revealer and Sender that which the Pen is powerless and incapable to mention?  BH04456

It is evident that in these days the most heedless of people are the followers of the Bayan - those who utter the name of the Primal Point, exalted be His mention, and make show of servitude while remaining oblivious of His essence and reality. Therefore, teaching this group should be given priority to the extent possible.  BH10982

By God's life! The entire Bayan boweth down before a single verse, as the Herald Himself hath acknowledged. Nevertheless, they have said what they have said. Observe the people of Sijjin and what they have written in the Book of Sijjin - that which no foolish one hath ever written. The verses disavow them, yet they understand not.  BH00176


This is why the Point of the Bayan -- may the souls of all else be sacrificed for His sake -- hath declared that the people of the Bayan would not count that Most Great Manifestation even as one of the believers, for even should they acknowledge Him as a believer, they would not accept for Him what they would not accept for themselves.  BH00004

If ye love the Point of the Bayan, why have ye acted against His sanctuary, and disbelieved in His verses after their revelation, and distorted the word which had been inscribed by the Pen of God in all the Tablets? Indeed, ye have taken fancy as your lord besides God, after ye had been known in the realm of names by the name of God.   BH00734

This was naught but the fruit of their unworthy deeds and false actions. Now the people of the Bayan, namely those souls who have turned away, should with fairness and justice reflect upon the end of those who considered themselves the most exalted of nations - what fruit those souls reaped, that these souls should now walk in their footsteps.  BH11873


These incidents were created by the Azalis, and they could not find any newspaper inside [the country] to publish such news since no one would accept it. Later, based purely on false imagination, they resorted to the distinguished newspaper Chihrihnama and the beloved Hablu'l-Matin, hoping these fabrications would be published in foreign newspapers.  AB00318

If one were truly focused on the Point of the Bayan and His counsels, even if all the peoples of the world were to confront him with sharp swords and cut him to pieces, he would not hesitate regarding this Manifestation, for all that was recorded and revealed from the heaven of Will was and shall ever be explicitly about this Most Great Manifestation.  BH00004

Ponder upon the people of the Bayan and hearken unto what they say regarding this Remembrance at Whose appearance the Most Great Remembrance bowed down in submission and that which was recorded in the scrolls and books was fulfilled. By God's life! They are in dissension and hypocrisy, to which thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, doth testify.  BH00255

But when His Object and the Object of the mystics appeared in truth and was established upon the throne with manifest and clear sovereignty, then did most of the people of the Bayan deny Him, opposing Him then, before then, and after then. Among them were those who desired to shed His blood, those who calumniated Him, and those who derided the verses of God   BH03918

Reflect upon the people of the Bayan: although they witnessed the Shi'ih sect and the fruits of their deeds, as ye have seen with your own eyes and heard with your own ears, yet they have again clung to the same vain imaginings. Through fancy they are deprived of the Sovereign of certitude, and through a mere pond they are kept back from the Most Great Ocean.  BH00868

Thou well knowest, O my God, that I was regarded as one of the people of the Bayan, and consorted with them with love and fellowship, and summoned them to Thee in the daytime and in the night season, through the wonders of Thy Revelation and Thine inspiration, and sustained at their hands what the inmates of the cities of Thine invention are powerless to recount.   BH00591

O people of the Bayan! Come ye, come ye! By what proof did ye believe in the Point of the Bayan? Bring it forth, then read what hath been sent down from the presence of the Truth, the Knower of things unseen. If ye deny the appearance of God and His Cause and the effects and influence of the Most Exalted Pen, by what proof can that which ye possess be established?   BH01743

O people of the Bayan! By God, the Primal Point took My Covenant before His own. This is attested by Him Who proclaimeth in every state that there is none other God but Me, the Single, the All-Informed. By God, the ocean of the Bayan hath surged in creation through this Name, whereby the hearts of those who have disbelieved in God, the Exalted, the Great, have been shaken.  BH04705

Reflect upon the people of the Bayan: although they have witnessed with their own eyes the deeds of the Shi'ih sect on the Day of Judgment, they have again become Shi'ihs. Though bearing His Names, they are deprived of their Possessor. In this Revelation, they must rend asunder the veil of names, traverse its gulf and pass beyond it that they may attain unto the Most Great Ocean.   BH01020

O people of the Bayan! Die in your wrath! By God, the Hidden One has come and that which was treasured in knowledge has been revealed, if ye be of them that know. Where were ye when the Light was shining forth from the Horizon of Revelation and speaking before all faces? Be fair, O people, and be not of those who exchanged the grace of God for unbelief and chose the path of perdition.  BH00486

Praise be to God Who hath made the first blast a glad-tiding to the people of Baha who are established upon the Crimson Ark, and the second a trial for the people of the Bayan who have clung to that which the All-Merciful hath not revealed, who have followed the people of the Furqan in their conjectures and imaginings, and who have turned away from the Innovation manifest from all directions  BH11761

O people of the Bayan! The All-Merciful Himself calleth you, yet ye are as the dead. Ye object to Him through Whom the breeze of God hath wafted over all things, and by Whom the eyes of the Messengers have been solaced. Your objection returneth not unto Me but unto God, were ye aware of it. Your hatred falleth not upon Me but upon God - to this testifieth every fair-minded and clear-sighted one.   BH00950

Know then that most of the people of the Bayan rose up against God and denied Him in Whom they had believed, and were among the losers. Say: O people, do ye imagine within yourselves that ye believed in the Revelation of 'Ali (the Bab)? Nay, by His Self, the All-Knowing, the Wise! For had ye believed in Him, ye would not have denied these verses which have descended from the heaven of mighty glory.   BH01976

Then, when some traces of the effects of the Most Exalted Pen became manifest and resplendent among the servants, the people of the Bayan arose above all others to harm this Wronged One. By the life of God! These differences have prevented the servants from the Most Great Ocean, the Most High Station, and the Supreme Horizon. Glory be to God! They describe a drop while remaining deprived of the ocean.   BH02027

The Primal Point desired naught but what I desire, and I desire naught but what He desired, and that which hath appeared through Me is the beloved of His heart, if ye be of them that know. Say: He is present before the Throne and weepeth for what hath befallen Me at the hands of the people of the Bayan who recite His verses, then slay His Beloved, and are not ashamed before His luminous countenance.   BH00973

For the people of the Bayan, though but a short time hath passed since the manifestation of the King of divine revelation and though they witnessed with their own eyes the manner of His appearance, have become veiled as thou seest. What then will befall that resplendent Beauty? Alas for the servants! No Beauty appeareth unto them but they conceal His beauty behind veils of rancor and hatred, then mock Him   BH00670

the Cause has reached such a state that the people of the Bayan are considered before God more veiled than previous peoples, even though the King of mighty establishment, after rending the veil of the people, gave glad tidings in the year sixty of this manifest, evident, shining Beauty in all Tablets. Nevertheless, all have arisen with swords of malice to cut down the divine Lote Tree with utmost vigor.   BH01571

The divines and learned ones of Persia all awaited the days of the Manifestation. During nights and days most of them were occupied in lamentation and weeping from separation. But when the gate was opened and the effulgences of the lights of manifestation dawned from the horizon of will, they did that which thou hast heard and seen. Now too the deniers of the Bayan are occupied with the same vain imaginings.   BH06370

His [the Bab's] pen moved only in My remembrance, His tongue spoke only in praise of My Self, and His heart beat only with My Name, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling, the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful. And now He [Baha'u'llah] findeth Himself beneath the claws and talons of the people of the Bayan, though He had enjoined them in all the Tablets not to be veiled by anything revealed in the Bayan at the time of His manifestation.   BH00631

Despite this, how is it that ye have turned away from these verses that have filled the East and West of the earth, if ye be of them that comprehend? Yet ye, O people of the Bayan, have denied Me, calumniated Me, and rejected Me without any clear proof or illuminating Book. And whenever We increased the evidence, ye increased in your rejection, to such extent that ye kindled the fire of hatred in your breasts, O people of malice!   BH01596

Were it not for the Glory (Baha), who would exalt the mention of thy Lord between earth and heaven? Reflect and be of the fair-minded. The Rock hath cried out with the loudest voice: The Desired One hath come and sovereignty belongeth unto God, the One, the Peerless, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Verily, they who have turned away have not found the fragrance of the All-Merciful in the Bayan - nay, they are among the bewildered ones.   BH00420

O people of the Bayan! The Most Merciful Himself hath come unto you, and by Him have been attracted the realities of all creation - they who have purified their vision from the limitations of the wicked ones and turned their gaze toward the scene of their Lord, the Chosen One, and were numbered among the triumphant. Yet ye deny Him and make mention of My Name, and imagine that ye are of them who sought My presence and attributed themselves unto My Self.   BH01702

Among them is he who saith "I have believed in the Bayan." Say: Silence thy tongue, O thou denier and deceiver! The Bayan waileth by reason of thy deed, and with it wail the people of Paradise and the denizens of the holy sanctuaries at eventide and at dawn. If thou didst believe in the Bayan, why didst thou draw the sword of renunciation against the Beloved of the All-Merciful, through Whom the All-Glorious smiled and through Whom the brocade of the Book of Creation was adorned?   BH00793

"By God! Those who were given the Furqan did not wrong Us - those who wronged this Beauty were of the people of the Bayan, who were renowned among all creation. They arose in such wise that none can recount it...They imagine within themselves that they have believed in God and the Manifestation of His Self, but when the veils were rent asunder and the Countenance of the Chosen One appeared, they dispersed from around Him, denied Him, warred against His Self, and disputed His verses."  BH03362

O people of the Bayan! Would ye deny Him Whose presence is the very object of your creation, while ye rejoice idly upon your couches? Would ye laugh to scorn and contend with Him, a single hair of Whose head excelleth, in the sight of God, all that are in the heavens and all that are on the earth? O people of the Bayan! Produce, then, that which ye possess, that I may know by what proof ye believed aforetime in the Manifestations of His Cause, and by what reason ye now wax so disdainful!  BH00007

Write to the loved ones that they should never associate with the polytheists from among the people of the Bayan. And if, perchance, one of the loved ones of God should unwittingly enter a gathering wherein mention is made in enmity to the Beauty of the All-Glorious, let him arise and smite his hand upon their mouths and say: The ear that hath heard the melody of God shall never hearken to the croaking of the polytheists. Fire be upon you for having disbelieved in Him in Whom ye had believed!  BH11384

Despite this, the people of the Bayan say that the condition for the appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest is that two thousand years must elapse, and since two thousand years have not elapsed, the Blessed Beauty is not true. Those souls who themselves acknowledge that fifty thousand years elapsed in the twinkling of an eye and the momentous events of the resurrection were fulfilled, deny that the number of Mustaghath could elapse in nineteen years. Take heed, O ye who are endowed with insight!  ABU0345

Observe how submissive and humble that Exalted One was in mentioning this Revelation. Now those who count themselves among the people of the Bayan have committed that which no other group hath ever done, and have perpetrated that which hath caused the very essence of creation to weep. Despite this mighty, firm, and supreme word, they have clung to certain passages of the Bayan and interpreted them according to their desires - passages whose fragrance they have not perceived, let alone their true meaning.  BH06586

That heedless faction considered themselves the highest of religions, and were so proud of what they possessed that, in the words of common folk, Pharaoh could not match their conceit. In the end it became clear that the Blessed Beauty, Whose mention occupied them night and day, they slew with their own hands. Now the people of the Bayan are newly occupied with their ancient utterances - may God forsake them and fight against them. They have not understood even this much: that today is the Day of God, wherein none is mentioned but Him.   BH00185

I swear by the Sun of sanctity that the deed of that ignorant one was like a sword placed in the hands of the enemies of truth from among the people of the Bayan. For all have heard that those who spent their entire lives engaged in corruption - now whatever hath occurred and transpired, they attribute it all to this servant. Thus in their book they have issued the decree to kill people, as ye all know, yet when news reached this land of what took place, they attributed it to this servant, though neither the mention of the killer nor the killed was ever made in this land.  BH09313

O people of the Bayan! The Beloved of all possibility hath informed of your tyranny in that which was sent down from the heaven of mighty and exalted glory. He spoke, and His word is the truth: O people of the Bayan! After My testament I see you wrapped in a mighty veil. I revealed not the Bayan except for His Self and His remembrance, and My purpose in what I revealed was naught but His radiant and luminous Beauty. Yet ye do unto Him what neither the Jews did unto the Spirit (Christ), nor the people of the Furqan (Muslims) unto My Self, nor Nimrod unto God, the Mighty, the Wise.  BH06472

Therefore say to those who are veiled that despite His Holiness the Bab declaring "Beware, beware lest thou be veiled from that Most Great Beauty by turning to me or to what was revealed in the Bayan," despite this, O heedless ones, from every direction you raise a cry. One says this is the Manifestation of Him Whom God shall make manifest, another says this falls short of Him Whom God shall make manifest, another declares this is the school of instruction of Him Whom God shall make manifest, and yet another says this is the cradle of the resurrection of Him Whom God shall make manifest.   AB00067

Ye recognized Him and believed in Him, as ye claimed, and accepted what was sent down unto you from the heaven of mighty and sublime glory. When those days passed, He appeared with another name and sent down unto you what He had sent down before of the mighty, powerful and wondrous verses of God. Ye witnessed from Him what ye had not witnessed from any other, and none denieth this save every aggressive transgressor. He sacrificed Himself at every moment for the Cause of God, His Lord and the Lord of all worlds. Yet ye believed not in Him and denied after your profession of faith, and were not content with what God had chosen for you.   BH01052

I said: God, the Most High, the Most Great, speaketh the truth. At that very moment, a letter arrived sealed by four individuals. By the life of my Purpose and the Purpose of all who are in earth and heaven, after seeing and considering it, I lamented for the Primal Point (may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him), for it was observed that the people of the Bayan had not understood a single letter of the Bayan of the All-Merciful and had not attained its purpose. For the purpose of the entire Bayan was the recognition of this Most Great Manifestation - were it not for Him, the Bayan would not have been revealed nor would its Revealer have appeared.  BH00095

We have found the people of the Bayan to be more veiled than previous peoples, for We counselled them in all Our Tablets not to cling to anything at the time of the Manifestation, yet they have clung to everything and denied their Lord, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-Forgiving, the Most Merciful. We commanded them in all Our scrolls not to be veiled by anything when God would come upon the clouds of light, and to be among those who would turn unto Him, forsaking all that they possessed and turning their faces toward God their Creator. Yet they disbelieved and took the Calf for their god instead of God, deviated from the Path, and were numbered among the idolaters.  BH01116

O people of the Bayan! By God, that which ye possess will profit you not this day. Hearken unto that which the Bayan warbleth upon the branches. It said, and its word is the truth - and I have written its essence regarding His mention - He is a sign that cannot be indicated by My indication nor by what was mentioned in the Bayan. Fear God and follow not your desires. Behold the sun, its dawning and its effulgences and its lights, then the Tree and its fruits and its leaves. Beware lest the imaginings of men debar you from the truth. Cast behind you all else but God, then hasten with illumined hearts and radiant faces to the station wherein is raised the rustling of the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing.  BH11870

The answer to the Yahyais is in the decisive texts of the Bab, Who states that if He Whom God shall make manifest appears now, I would be the first to believe in Him. Thus it becomes clear that it is possible. Similarly He addresses them saying that when He appears, Beware lest thou be veiled by any follower of the Bayan and take them as a standard. And the followers of the Bayan are the eighteen Letters of the Living, with the nineteenth being the Bab Himself. Therefore it becomes evident that when He Whom God shall make manifest appears, at least some of the followers of the Bayan would still be living. Furthermore, the Bab states that the fifty thousand years of the Resurrection passed in the twinkling of an eye. How then could the passing of two thousand and one years within fifty years be impossible and unattainable? Children are amazed and astonished at these words of the Yahyais. Glory be to God! How heedless and negligent are these souls!  AB10850

Now again the followers of the Bayan, that is, the barking ones, have been and are attempting to establish a sect like unto the former one.   BH04955

the dogs among the people of the Bayan have taken up positions of ambush, and inform the people and fabricate against Us that which they have not witnessed   BH09937

The polytheists and the deluded ones among the people of the Bayan have now, contrary to the past, outwardly clung to that which leadeth to attainment and meeting.  BH11604

Sorrows have encompassed this Wronged One from all directions, for it is observed that this people, namely the people of the Bayan, are far lower and more worthless than the previous people.   BH04141

The Wronged One testifies in the Most Great Prison... All that has befallen you - trials and hardships and other matters from the taunts of the heedless and the deception and schemes of the transgressors and Bayanis   BH03240

The deniers of the Bayan emerged from behind the veil like wolves and sought to attack the Lord of all men. They said that which caused the dwellers of Paradise to lament and did that which caused the clouds to cry out.   BH01516

Now with utmost cunning the people of the Bayan have risen against the souls who have believed and are assured. God protect us and you from the evil of these people who, in both word and deed, are like unto the former party.  BH03293

Remember this servant who hath fallen into the hands of the wicked ones and findeth no helper for himself. And whenever He seeketh assistance from the people of the Bayan, they hasten toward Him with swords of rejection and hatred.   BH06056

By God, the harm of this matter is greater than the harm inflicted upon Us by Our enemies. Therefore, O people of the Bayan, have mercy upon Me! I swear by God that the harm of this repugnant matter all returns to this Servant.   BH02284

Despite this, the people of the Bayan say that the condition for the appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest is that two thousand years must pass, and since two thousand years have not passed, therefore the Blessed Beauty is not true.  ABU0366

The evil ones of the Bayan have united with the evil ones of the Furqan to violate My honor, until I was prevented from mentioning God. Woe unto them! Then burning fire be upon them for having committed that which the oppressors never committed.   BH01901

Hearken unto that which the people of the Bayan, who have turned away from God, the Lord of all worlds, have uttered. Among them are those who have turned away from the Countenance, and those who have said that He hath fabricated lies against the All-Informed One.   BH05080

The harm and abasement that have befallen the Cause of God have been greater and more grievous from the people of the Bayan. They are ablaze with the fire of self and passion, and perceive it not. With a hundred thousand tricks and schemes they are occupied with leading souls astray.  BH00023

Justice remaineth behind Mount Qaf, and equity lieth concealed behind the clouds of tyranny. Vain imaginings have deprived the world from the Lord of Names. The kings are occupied with their dominions and treasures, the divines cling to the means of hypocrisy, and the people of the Bayan are engaged in calumnies.   BH03298

Yet the people of the Bayan broke God's covenant and His testament, and opposed the Sovereign of Revelation with a tyranny grievous in the Tablet. The more the proof increased, the more their wretchedness increased, and the reminder from One mighty and wise profited them not. Nay rather, they sought to slay the Youth after He summoned them unto their Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.   BH01691

From the first day until now the Supreme Pen hath neither paused nor found rest, and hath, through its movement and mention, aided the Cause of God, exalted be His glory. And when the banners of divine victory were raised in certain lands, the people of the Bayan rose up from behind the veil to wage war. By God! They uttered that which made the eye of God weep and the tongue of God lament.  BH10068

At all times they consulted on shedding My blood, after they had imprisoned Us for what their hands and the hands of those who denied the proof and disbelieved in the evidence had wrought. When they entered the seat of government they would say "We have disbelieved in God," but when they saw others like themselves they would say "We are among those who follow what was revealed in the Bayan."   BH02360

Through personal intrigues and satanic whisperings, they arose to cut down the divine Tree, until the Hand of divine Power exposed the hidden secrets of their hearts to the realm of appearance and witness. Thus did the one commissioned for this repugnant task become agitated and, with utmost lamentation and grief, disclosed the details of his commission before the people of the Bayan who were gathered in that land.  BH11688

Despite this, the people of the Bayan were heedless, abandoned clear vision, clung to vain imaginings, denied the Beauty of the All-Merciful, and were not ashamed before the Light shining upon all existence. Rather, they wandered in the wilderness of heedlessness and error, plunged into the darkness of deafness and blindness, and hastened to dig into pitch darkness so as not to see the brilliant rays from the Most Glorious Horizon.   AB00160

And the people of the Bayan have so debased themselves as to cleave to one who hath ever commanded the shedding of blood and who walketh in the valley of his passions. They have turned away from the Truth and committed that which they have committed, attributing it to the Truth, despite the fact that all are aware that from the time of the dawning of the Day-Star of the horizons from the horizon of Iraq until this moment, He hath forbidden the people, night and day, from committing unseemly and unpleasing acts, as most have heard with their own ears and seen with their own eyes in the Tablets.  BH09295

The people of the Bayan, those souls who have turned away from the Water of Life, are seen to be more veiled than the people of the Furqan. They have desired to extinguish the light of the All-Merciful with the winds of fancy and vain imaginings. Fie upon them and upon those who have led them astray!   BH01499

The Primal Point - may our souls be a sacrifice for His sake - with a hundred thousand verses trained the servants that perchance they would not remain deprived as before, and clearly forewarned of the wickedness of the people of the Bayan. His exalted Word states that if someone appears with but a single verse, reject him not, and so forth. Now they deny and reject millions upon millions of verses revealed without any veil or covering.  BH00104

O people of the Bayan! Would ye do as the people of the Furqan did before? Woe unto you for having chosen oppression as your path. Say: The people of the Furqan declared "We believe in God and in what was revealed to Muhammad, the Messenger of God" until the test came to them from a direction near to glory. When 'Ali appeared in truth with a preserved and holy Book, they then disbelieved in God, associated partners with His Self, and turned away from the grace that was sent down bountifully from a holy heaven.   BH01465

The heedless one hath said that He hath stolen the verses of the Bayan. By God! At this the verses themselves have wept, yet they hear not.   BH05470

The satans of the Bayan strive to make these helpless souls more veiled than the peoples of the past.   BH02380

those whom neither the doubts of the people of the Bayan nor the clamor of every froward denier have kept back   BH08808

Until now the deniers of the Bayan have not understood the Day of God. They speak and make mention with previous names.  BH06824

The deniers of the Bayan have arisen in opposition. The Most Exalted Pen hath informed all of the braying of these brayerers.   BH02844

The deniers have said that this Wronged One hath taken from the verses of the Point of the Bayan and giveth them to the servants of God.   BH07360

The enemies have desired to extinguish the light of the Bayan and this Lamp through which the contingent world and all existence have been illumined.   BH08538

the calumnies and doubts of the people of the Bayan and the Furqan shall not prevent or deprive thee from the dawning-place of verses and the source of clear proofs   BH05141

By night and by day they besought the appearance of the Truth, yet when He was made manifest they pronounced His death-warrant. The deniers of the Bayan follow in their footsteps.   BH00461

And now the people of the Bayan desire, through the same idle fancies of the past, to prevent people from drawing nigh unto the Dayspring of divine revelation and the Source of inspiration   BH05094

those who were given the Bayan seek to invalidate the Truth using the same arguments used by the transgressors of the Qur'an when the Sovereign of the Cause came to them with God's kingdom   BH02048

Blessed are they whom, in this day, neither the doubts of the deniers, nor the whispers of the negators, nor the clamor of the people of the Bayan have prevented from the Ultimate Purpose of creation.   BH03946

When the Sun of Manifestation shone forth from the horizons of all lands, the people of the Bayan rose in such opposition as nearly rent the heavens asunder and caused the hearts of the Messengers to melt.   BH05053

When the Cause became somewhat manifest, the deniers of the Bayan emerged from behind the veil and rose up against the Lord of all beings, perpetrating that which no party among all parties had ever perpetrated.   BH05887

The people of the Bayan have been seen to be the most oppressive of all peoples. Woe unto them and away with them! They have denied the verses of God after their revelation and have rejected His favor after its manifestation.  BH01037

Beware lest the doubts of the divines, or the suggestions of the jurisprudents, or the denial of the people of the Bayan who have disbelieved in your Lord, the All-Merciful, when He came with manifest sovereignty, hold you back.  BH02923

Nevertheless, some among the people of the Bayan who are builders of the houses of vain imaginings and idle fancies have turned away. By God's life! They are the most abject of all the world's peoples. They cling to vain imaginings and hold fast to idle fancies.  BH06184

By God, if you were to look upon Me with the eye of your heart, you would find in My outward and inward being naught but the wounds from the spears of the fettered ones. The evil ones of the Bayan have united with the evil ones of the Furqan for My harm and affliction.  BH02164

The deniers among the people of the Bayan cling to the same vain imaginings. Through their attachment to names they have been deprived of the Dawning Place of the lights of inner meanings. Say: This is not a Cause that can be prevented by the cawing of crows or the clamor of divines.   BH00547

After the martyrdom of the martyrs and the manifestation of the Cause and the exaltation of the Word until now, truth cannot be distinguished from falsehood. By the life of God! The people of the Bayan and what they possess are like the spider's web, nay weaker still, if they but knew it.   BH02990

some of the opposers of the Bayan witnessed with their own eyes and heard with their own ears the deeds and words of those souls. Nevertheless, because of a false successor and an imaginary name and Imam and the like, they turned away from Him Who spoke on Sinai and the Lord of the unseen and the visible   BH02720

The deniers of the Bayan have clung to calumnies the like of which have never been heard from time immemorial until now. It is not known by what proof they accept the Point of the Bayan while turning away from Him Who sent it. Thou knowest how lofty is the station of the Cause and how base are the calumnies of the people.   BH01304

In the days when the divines of the earth and the princes of the lands have risen up to harm this Wronged One, and when the people of the Furqan and some of the people of the Bayan have blocked the paths that lead to God, and through deception and guile have deprived the people from the shore of the divine ocean of knowledge   BH07904

They claimed truth, yet ultimately pronounced the death sentence. Now too the deniers of the Bayan walk the same path, clinging to doubts and vain imaginings. We beseech God to protect His loved ones from the evil of those who behold the Sun yet deny it, who see the signs yet turn away therefrom. They are indeed in manifest loss.   BH00855

O God! Your enemies from among the people of the Qur'an and Bayan and other groups from every direction are attacking, and this broken bone is resisting and defending, unless the successive confirmations of Your Abha Kingdom arrive and the consecutive aid of Your most exalted Realm assists, so that this weak one may resist mighty attacks.   AB01825

Consider how much intrigue there is - the people of doubts in the Bayan have created an imaginary photograph which they attribute to the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), while the authentic likeness is present and available. You saw how inappropriate this imaginary photograph is - it is clear as the sun that it is not the blessed likeness.   AB01626

We arose for the Cause in such wise that agitation seized the people of the Bayan. When some measure of tranquility appeared, there emerged from behind the veil one who led the people astray and barred them from the straight path of God. They would flee from town to town from the onslaught of the wicked ones, yet when they felt secure, they arose against Us with manifest tyranny.   BH00274

In the days when the chiefs of the Bayan would pay dearly for women's veils to conceal and protect themselves from enemies, the Ancient Beauty arose to aid the Cause, although all peoples had risen to oppose Him. And when God's Cause was exalted, these hidden souls emerged like serpents from behind their veils of concealment, and their first act was to wage war against the Beauty of the All-Merciful.  BH11403

for the barking ones are striving with a hundred thousand deceits and stratagems to lead astray the party of God. Hadi of Dawlatabad, despite never having been with Us and being heedless, veiled and unaware of the root of the Cause, hath arranged for himself a leadership and gathered riches, and sometimes through the words of the Bayan and at times through riches preventeth the servants of God from the Truth   BH03563

Neither the denial of the world nor the doubts of those who have disbelieved in the Hereafter can withhold Him. We have manifested that which was hidden in knowledge and have sent down the proof which, when revealed, caused all the proofs of the world to bow down before it. Yet the people are in doubt and dissension. The concourse of the Bayan have cast the Book of God behind their backs, clinging to idle fancies and vain imaginings.   BH00658

The tale of vain imaginings hath again been told, and the people of the Bayan speak as spoke the people of the Furqan from among the divines of Persia and their followers, who violated God's Covenant and Testament, disbelieved in His proof, and disputed His signs, until they pronounced against Him that which caused the countenances in the most exalted Paradise to pale, and the Supreme Paradise to lament with the lament of the bereaved.   BH00401

Now that the baseness of the people of the Bayan hath reached such a state that Ibn-i-Ja'far-i-Kirmani hath become the leader of the people and guide of mankind, they have attributed calumnies to the King of existence - from Whose right and left flow the Euphrates of mercy and surge the seas of bounty, and Who throughout His life hath been caught in the claws of His enemies - and have made these calumnies a cause of the people's deviation.   BH00595

From the earliest days until now, the Manifest Beauty hath arisen with such an arising that the hatred of the world and the rancor of nations, whether from divines or rulers, did not hold Him back. And when the lights of the Sun of Truth shed their radiance to some degree, the people of the Bayan emerged from behind the veil with drawn swords to assault the Countenance of the Divine Unity. They perpetrated that which no oppressor had ever committed.   BH03163

One who received the utmost kindness from the friends of the Cause arose in opposition and united with his own kind, busying himself with plundering possessions on the day of reckoning, selling the Joseph of trust for a few counted dirhams. He showed no mercy either to himself or to the Cause of God. Glory be to God! The deniers of the Bayan are still consumed by the fire of hatred. At the instigation of those treacherous souls they have arisen to commit betrayal.   BH02615

Ja'far spoke one word in truth and sincerity - for nearly one thousand three hundred years they called him a liar, and the fruit of the deeds and words of that rebellious band was that they martyred God's loved ones, who had no peer or like on earth, with the most grievous torments. And now the veiled ones of the Bayan manifest exactly the same words and deeds, as if they had no knowledge of the Day of God and had not caught the fragrance of the garment of His Manifestation.   BH00960

But O Sun! What can this evanescent atom mention of how, at the exaltation and appearance of this Most Great Orb, what standards of rancor and hatred have been raised by the possessors of authority from the Bayan against this Beauty of the All-Merciful? By the One Holy and Unique Essence, never hath such a thing appeared in the world of creation. He whose very existence was created by a word hath repeatedly attempted to veil this Sun of Divine Beauty behind the clouds of rancor and envy, and to conceal His purified Beauty from the horizon of possibility.   BH00637

Glory be unto Thee, O God of Names and Sovereign over all things! The Servant testifieth that Thou wert alone and single; no one was seen to champion Thy Cause or arise to serve Thee. Thou didst stand alone before the faces of the world in days wherein the hearts of Thy servants were agitated, and Thou didst call all to the ultimate goal, the most exalted station, and the highest summit. When the horizon of proof was illumined and that which was treasured in the storehouse of knowledge was manifested, Thine enemies who claim adherence to the Bayan emerged from behind the veils and perpetrated that which caused the dwellers of the cities of certitude to lament.   BH00432

God, exalted be His mention, hath not manifested such falsehood in any people as He hath in the people of the Bayan. For in every people, a thousand or more or less years would pass before one would appear by whom the truthful could be distinguished from the false, and the monotheist from the polytheist. But since the people of the Bayan regarded themselves as the most discerning among the peoples of the earth and superior to all creation - to such extent that they considered all others veiled while deeming themselves as having recognized God and among those who had attained His presence - therefore but one breath of test blew, and it caused them all to fall back to the lowest station of previous peoples.   BH00447

You know that for twenty years, nay more, we have endured the corruption, sedition and calumnies of the party of Yahya in Istanbul and Iran, and never responded, but rather maintained patience, forbearance and calm, and did not mention their names before other peoples.   AB00761

Be not disturbed by the tumult of the followers of Yahya and others. These matters are like the foam of the sea - they come and go. However, it is not appropriate for the followers of Yahya to be present in your gatherings, for they have no purpose save casting doubts.   AB00492

the followers of Azal, according to Mirza Yahya's explicit texts which encouraged and incited all to warfare, including what he wrote to Mirza Javad Khurasani: "God shall soon make manifest al-Javad from the cloud of permission, and he shall mount the white she-camel and slay all the wicked."   AB01058

Far has he gone to present himself as impartial, that his calumnies might influence souls, though aware souls have from the beginning been cognizant of the secrets, events and traces, and likewise those who, in their firmness and steadfastness in the Cause of God, are as an unshakeable mountain. These calumnies are to them like the words and verses of Yahya's own "Cat and Mouse" poem, which only brings shame upon those who have instigated them.   AB00101

The grievous events in Iran and the reprehensible efforts of the rebellious ones - the people of Yamut, who are called the people of Yahya. Observe how these people are of one mind internally, yet they join every party. It is clear their purpose is corruption and sedition. They should either be from the Moderate party, or the Independence party, or the Democratic party. How is it that a group internally of one heart and mind nevertheless has some in Darius's army and some in Alexander's? This clearly shows their aim is to sow discord and strife.   AB00088

From one direction, the ancient peoples and nations each have an arrow on the bowstring; from another, the people of Yahya who with utmost shamelessness draw sword and blade; and from yet another, the unfaithful Covenant-breakers who wish every calamity upon 'Abdu'l-Baha and give him not a moment's peace.   AB06317

One of the friends should write in another newspaper, or spread among the people, that this calumny against the Baha'is comes from the Yahyai Babis, for these people are enemies of the Baha'is... But the Yahyai Babis, who are enemies of the Baha'is and who keep themselves hidden behind a veil, tell the constitutionalists that the Baha'is support the government, and tell the royalists that the Baha'is sacrifice themselves for the constitutionalists - so that they may incite both sides against the Baha'is and make them enemies   AB01314

Her relatives and kinsmen, because they cling to the frail cord of Yahya, cause her harm and have completely deprived her of her rights  AB12469

If Mr. Brown passes through Baku, surely show him the utmost love and kindness - perhaps he will abandon prejudice and speak with fairness, for the Yahyais have made the Cause unclear to him.   AB03670

now the corruption of the people of hatred has encompassed the land of Ta. The clergy are attacking from one direction and the followers of Yahya are openly and secretly engaged in sedition and corruption  AB00417

Just as it is reported to me that the Yahyais misrepresent such matters to politicians, this very point must be clarified to politicians through effective means so that the matter becomes clear and evident.   AB11805

otherwise the followers of Yahya along with the Ja'fari committee and others would have raised the banner of corruption during Ramadan and Muharram, and their cries of woe would have reached the vault of heaven   AB11713

That extraordinary paper from Najaf is confused dreams. All people know that the source of this delirious talk is the oppression and tyranny of the opponents - the followers of Mirza Yahya and some base and vile people.  AB11639

Despite this, the Yahyai chief of the ulama, who was the pillar of corruption and destroyer of foundations, through Yahyai deception perpetrates corruption against these innocent ones, and the government gives ear to it.  AB06151

the Yahyais have seized the opportunity and through various tricks and deceptions are secretly stealing from this water reservoir...The Yahyais' ultimate hope and desire is to turn a single Baha'i away from the straight path and true way  AB11350

As to the matter of Habl al-Matin, whatsoever hath proceeded from the Pen of the Covenant is assuredly binding and no hesitation is permitted. This slanderer hath sullied the pages of his newspaper with the utterances of the followers of Yahya, recording therein that calumny.  AB05281

the matter of poison which Yahya the shameless himself gave to the Blessed Beauty, but in order to mislead, in Browne's writings this abominable act is attributed to the Manifest Beauty. Glory be to God! How oppressive become those souls who turn away from the shadow of the Cause!   AB11813

certain handwritten treatises from insignificant persons like the followers of Yahya are continuously arriving at the public library in Paris, and their purpose is to prevent the greatness of the Cause of God and the penetration of the Word of God and to promote their own vain imaginings   AB03091

As in the newspaper Chihri-Numa, articles of pure calumny were written claiming that I had repeatedly sent large sums of money for bribing various people so that the Baha'is might obtain membership in parliament. These are indeed strange calumnies, and there is no doubt that the Yahya'is have written them.  AB12183

They have written from Iran that the friends are being persecuted. In Qa'in and its environs they have levied seven thousand tumans as punishment for their beliefs, in Zavareh and Ardistan they have plundered the properties of the friends, in Isfahan the friends have been forced to disperse. Trials and tribulations have encompassed them from every direction, and they have written that the cause of all this is the people of Yahya.  ABU0229

As for Taqizadeh, this person is extremely hostile in secret and the Yahyais have specifically sent him to America to create a breach in the Baha'i Cause. He carries books with him, especially Browne's books, to spread them among the friends through various intrigues. You must absolutely warn the friends, and there may be others with him as well. They should avoid those others who are with him. These Yahyais are very deceitful and cunning. You must absolutely, one hundred percent stop their mischief.   AB00497

The people of the Bayan opposed Him and grew arrogant towards Him, and behind them all peoples and nations, until He was imprisoned in this remote prison.  BH10825

Were it not for My fear of the Nimrod of the Bayan...   BH10324

this Wronged One Who hath been afflicted at the hands of the polytheists from among the people of the Bayan, and Who found none to help Him save God   BH09239

Now the deniers of the Bayan, following their vain imaginings, have imitated the previous community and remain utterly veiled and heedless of the Truth  BH05963

However, when We found the people of the Bayan more veiled than the people of the Furqan, We therefore concealed the Cause from them and covered Ourselves with a thick veil.   BH01363

But when the horizon of the Bayan was illumined and that which the All-Merciful desired was manifested, those who circled round Me were consumed with the fire of jealousy and hatred.  BH05101

The Spirit of the Bayan was revealed, yet those within the Bayan and the various sects denied it, except those whom God preserved through His grace - verily He is the Mighty, the Protector.   BH06673

We have seen from the people of the Bayan what the Point's eyes saw not from the people of the Furqan, nor the Spirit's eyes from the people of the Jews. The Bayan hath disowned them, yet they perceive not.  BH00875

Thou seest me and the severity of my trials and the onslaught of the adversaries upon my sanctuary from my right and my left, from my south and my north, from all other religions and the rebellious among the people of the Bayan.  AB00233

In the early years, certain followers of the Bayan engaged in acts at the beginning of the Cause which modesty prevents pen and tongue from mentioning. They appropriated people's property without permission and engaged in forbidden deeds.  BH00070

For after they were promised this Revelation throughout all the Bayan, they clung to a name among names which stood before Us as a servant standing before his master. When he turned away, most of the people turned away through what Satan whispered in their breasts.   BH02488

Yet the heedless ones have afflicted the helpless servants with vain imaginings, and these imaginings appeared on the Day of Resurrection in the form of a sword, descending upon the Truth and His companions. Now the people of the Bayan are engaged in forming a party like unto the previous one.   BH01223

In Mazandaran, We were paraded through the streets and lanes, and they inflicted upon Us that which would cause the destruction of the people of the cities of justice and fairness. And when the light of the Cause became somewhat manifest, the people of the Bayan did that which caused the eyes of grandeur to weep.  BH00043

the Ancient Beauty hath been afflicted at the hands of the people of the Bayan, these idolaters, even as 'Ali was afflicted at the hands of the people of the Furqan, and Muhammad at the hands of the people of the Gospel, and the Spirit at the hands of the Jews. Thus was the matter decreed against this lonely Wronged One   BH03251

And before Him walketh the Point of the Bayan, saying: "O my people! Your sayings and deeds have put me to shame, after We counseled you night and day. Fear the All-Merciful and be not of them that turn aside. In every leaf We commanded you to present yourselves before the Countenance, yet when He appeared ye turned away and denied."   BH01830

Today all atoms lament the oppression of this Wronged One, for there has befallen Him that which has befallen no one else. As if the people of the world were not enough, now the people of the Bayan have arisen in opposition. Instead of acceptance they show rejection, in place of turning toward they turn away, and at the time of submission they show denial.  BH00072

Therefore observe, O people of the Bayan, for after four Dispensations, if ye be like these people and none of power cause you to enter God's religion, have mercy upon yourselves and perceive your state. For when none caused these people to enter the true religion, four Dispensations passed over them while they continue lying in the fire above their graves.   BB00118

Thus have We informed thee of all things with clarity, that thou mayest be among those endowed with insight. Say: Consider likewise those who were given the Bayan: Should anyone come unto them with manifest signs, clear proofs, brilliant evidences, comprehensive words, and luminous verses, they would shut their eyes to all of this, break God's covenant, turn upon their heels, and would accept him only with flying arrows.  BH00783

The Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all in the realms of existence and possibility be sacrificed for Him - appeared with divine decisive verses and took from all the covenant of this most wondrous, most exalted Manifestation, to such extent that He made all the Bayan and what was revealed therein contingent upon the confirmation of this Cause. Nevertheless, some among the people of the Bayan committed that which no religious community had ever committed.  BH01852

One group says: "The texts of the Gospel indicate the end of Revelation." Another insists: "The everlasting character of the Law of Moses is the explicit text of the Torah and in these texts it is written that anyone who claims an independent Revelation should be slain forthwith despite his miracles." A third one says: "The 'Seal of the Prophets' is an unequivocal statement in the Qur'an." And the fourth retorts that the Promised One of the Bayan should come in the year 2001.   AB01961

By Thy life! Man is astonished at the heedlessness of the people of the Bayan, even more than the people of the Furqan. They have veiled themselves from the light of the Cause after Our Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted, guided them and perfected His proof unto them every morn and eve. Verily, he who sacrificed himself in His path for the Point of the Bayan, and was engaged at all times in His remembrance and praise, denied Him on the day of His manifestation and turned away from Him when the sun of His beauty dawned  BH00642

By God, O My loved one! No day hath passed except that there hath befallen Me that which all created things are powerless to recount. On one day the idolaters say: "This is he who hath fabricated a lie against God," even as thou heardst the like on the day when He Who came with manifest sovereignty appeared. And on another day they say: "He hath appeared contrary to what was ordained in the Book." And on yet another day they say: "Through him the Concourse of the Bayan hath been veiled from the mention of God, the Exalted, the Great."   BH00457

Thou knowest and seest how the waves of tribulation surge one after another upon Abdul-Baha, how the fire of faithfulness hath been kindled and the flames of estrangement blaze forth, how tribes and peoples have assailed him, how hearts are constricted and afflictions intensified, how the most violent tempests blow with utmost fury. He is the target of piercing arrows from the people of the Bayan, bearing pointed spears and drawn swords, aimed arrows and strung bows from every attacker, detractor, accuser and critic among nations near and far  AB12243

O people of the Bayan! Do ye dwell in your homes whilst the Beauty of the All-Merciful hath been exiled through the deeds of every wicked oppressor?   BH00552

After some time they banished Him from His native land, and sent Him to countries alien and far away. During many a year in Iraq, no moment passed but the arrow of a new anguish struck His holy heart; with every breath a sword came down upon that sacred body, and He could hope for no moment of security and rest. From every side His enemies mounted their attack with unrelenting hate; and singly and alone He withstood them all. After all these tribulations, these body blows, they flung Him out of Iraq in the continent of Asia, to the continent of Europe, and in that place of bitter exile, of wretched hardships, to the wrongs that were heaped upon Him by the people of the Qur'an were now added the virulent persecutions, the powerful attacks, the plottings, the slanders, the continual hostilities, the hate and malice, of the people of the Bayan.  AB00112





Be not idle like the Babis. Do what God hath revealed in the Book.  BH04007

Now is the turn of the people of the Bayan. God protect us and you from their evil.   BH05368

Heed thou not the idle talk of the people of the Bayan, who pervert the meaning of every word.  BHU0049

Yet ye, O people of the Bayan, by God, ye do unto him that which none hath ever done unto anyone   BH02389

But the people of the Bayan recognized Him not, save a few among them who are of Our near servants.   BH03655

Some among the people of the Bayan disguise themselves in any form to perchance entrap the believers.  AB07845

Likewise have the people of the Bayan been veiled from the Lord of Names and Attributes by their own imaginings   BH03827

Today lamentation is heard from the heart of the world, for the people of the Bayan have arisen in grievous oppression.   BH07474

Beware lest ye follow the people of the Bayan who have disbelieved in the All-Merciful and deviated from My straight path.   BH01402

Now certain ignorant ones among the people of the Bayan who count themselves among its adherents have arisen in opposition   BH03428

O people of the Bayan! Shame upon you! By God, ye have perpetrated what none among all created things hath ever perpetrated   BH03149

"Were any follower of the Bayan who hath denied God and His signs to hear this, he would pronounce thee an infidel and order thy death."   BH03369

By the life of God! The people of the Bayan are seen to be more base than the people of the Furqan, walking in the footsteps of that party   BH05210

the people of the Bayan who follow their idle fancies and are heedless of My manifest Command and My mighty Message shall not prevent them   BH03575

Beware lest the doubts of the people of the Bayan prevent you, or the allusions of those who are heedless of this momentous News withhold you.  BH04753

But alas, a hundred times alas, that the people of the Criterion and the people of the Bayan fell into the valley of ignorance and deprivation   AB06319

I entreat Thee to guard the people of the Bayan on that Day in order that they may not pronounce censure against Thee nor contend with Thy signs.  BB00365

O God! Do Thou assist the dwellers of the Paradise of the Bayan, and remove, O Lord, whatsoever Thou hast not caused to enter into that Paradise.  BB00003

Beware lest the clamor of the people of the Bayan debar you from your Lord, the All-Merciful, or the veils of every remote learned one withhold you.  BH10068

Beware lest thou be veiled by the veils of the people of the Bayan, for they cite My verses of aforetime, yet turn away from My Self and are unaware.   BH01482

This servant has become disappointed with the people of the Bayan, for no sweet fragrance is perceived from this group, save those whom God has assisted.   BH02794

The people of the Bayan have not yet perceived the fragrance of this Day. They are seen to be more veiled than the followers of the previous Dispensation.  BH11689

And this occurred in days when the people of the Bayan were heedless and veiled from the root of the Cause, inasmuch as divine wisdom required concealment.   BH04561

The deniers among the people of the Bayan have not, to this day, recognized the station of this Day. They remain occupied with former names and former words  BH01670

What strange intoxication has seized the people of the Bayan! They have witnessed and heard the verses of God at all times, yet remain heedless and turn away.   BH05432

Then know, O Muhammad, that the Concourse of the Bayan turned away from this Beauty and returned to their abode in the nethermost hell, save whom thy Lord willed  BH01690

Thus hath the Tongue of the All-Merciful spoken in the garden, as a rebuke to the people of the Bayan who have denied the appearance of God, the Mighty, the Beautiful.  BH05866

all the people of the Bayan were veiled behind a barrier... the people of the Bayan who clung to it while turning away from its Revealer, its Messenger and its Creator   BH07893

yet it hath been sullied by what the hands of the wicked ones among the people of the Bayan, who denied the All-Merciful after the heavens of religions were cleft asunder   BH05752

And We commanded them not to cling to anything at the time of the Manifestation, nor to hold fast to the hem of the Bayan and whatsoever commands and ordinances are therein.   BH06452

Bless, O my God, those of the followers of the Bayan as have been numbered with the people of Baha, who have entered within the Crimson Ark in Thy Name, the Most Exalted, the Most High.  BH07654

If the Bayanis had fairness this would suffice, for they know what condition they are in. By contrast, all the Baha'is are in the utmost joy and fragrance, kind to all nations of the world.   ABU1736

Know thou that the people of the Bayan speak as did the followers of previous religions. By God! Better would it be to make the ears deaf than to hearken to the utterances of these polytheists.  BH11383

Today the people of the Bayan are observed to be like unto the people of the Furqan, nay rather more astray. O My loved ones! Beware lest their doubts veil you or their allusions hold you back.   BH07327

"the Bayan and such as bear allegiance to it are but a present from me unto Thee" ... "Shouldst Thou dismiss the entire company of the followers of the Bayan in the Day of the Latter Resurrection"  BB00550

Beware, beware lest the doubts of the people of the Bayan prevent thee from drawing nigh unto God, the Lord of existence. Beware, beware lest that which hath been revealed in the Bayan veil thee.   BH00832

The people of the Bayan have turned away from Him Who revealed it and their Sovereign, and have disbelieved in God, the Mighty, the All-Praised, save those who heard the Call from the Supreme Horizon   BH06871

Beware lest ye be saddened by what hath befallen the chosen ones of God at the hands of those who claim adherence to the Bayan. Verily, the All-Merciful is quit of them, and the Bayan doth curse them.  BH11797

For We have found the people of the Bayan to be like the people of the Furqan, nay rather more veiled, if ye but knew. They speak as others spoke before and act as did the nations of old. Soon shall ye know.   BH00431

He counseled the servants and those in the Bayan to this Revelation that hath appeared from the horizon of the world, but the people of the Bayan violated God's Covenant and turned away from the Lord of nations.   BH06978

Take ye My choice sealed wine in My Name, the Self-Subsisting, then drink thereof in despite of the people of the Bayan who have turned away from the All-Merciful and disbelieved in God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH00441

When We revealed a mystery from Our Most Great Mystery with clear proof and evidence, the people of the Bayan fell stunned upon the dust of idle fancy. Thus was the matter decreed by One Who is All-Knowing, All-Informed.   BH03727

Observe thou the people of the Bayan and their veils, and that to which they have clung after We commanded them to cling to naught of all that hath been created between the heavens and the earth at the time of the Manifestation.  BH01756

This is the Beloved of the All-Merciful, Who hath been afflicted at the hands of the people of the Bayan - they who claim to believe in that which was revealed aforetime yet have denied Him around Whom circle the Kingdom of Verses   BH06439

Among the deniers are they who cling to the Bayan and turn away from the All-Merciful. These are assuredly the companions of the fire. Say: By God! Whoso denieth this Cause shall never be able to establish any cause in all creation.   BH05521

But when the Cause became somewhat manifest, the deniers among the people of the Bayan again became occupied with the same vain imaginings. Blessed are those whom veils, clouds and doubts did not prevent from the dwelling-place of verses.   BH02415

O people, deal fairly with this Youth, then fear God, O people of the Bayan, and deny not Him Who hath come unto you with the verses of 'Ali, then with the proof of Muhammad, and with that whereof no likeness hath appeared in all creation.   BH05763

Fear ye God, and spread not corruption in the earth, nor follow every heedless doubter among the people of the Bayan who hath turned away from the All-Merciful, clinging to that which We sent down to My Herald whom We sent with a clear proof.   BH03881

Fie upon the people of the Bayan, for they have exchanged the bounty of God and sold the Lord of Lords for a handful of dust, without any proof or scripture. Thus did their evil souls entice them to object to God, the Single One, the Mighty, the Praised.   BH02919

O people of the Bayan! Fear God and reject not the truth through that which ye possess.   BH00443

Now observe the people of the Bayan with this same insight - all recite the Bayan, yet remain veiled from its Revealer. Would that they had been content with this much, but rather they have inflicted upon the Ancient Beauty that which no soul has ever inflicted upon another.   BH03467

The satans of the Bayan have acted treacherously in the Cause of their Lord, the All-Merciful, and have conspired until the fire of sedition was kindled. By this means they desired to extinguish the light of God in His dominion and to quench the fire of God among His creatures.  BH05461

O servant! Arise to serve and obey God, then take what hath proceeded from His exalted fingers and flowed from His most luminous and transcendent Pen. Enter then into the abode of the idolaters among the concourse of the Bayan and say: O people! Fear your Lord, the All-Merciful.  BH01116

"Behold, then mention what the people of the Bayan have committed, who turned away from the All-Merciful and opposed Him with such tyranny as caused the denizens of the Kingdom to lament. They cast the Most Great Ocean behind their backs, hastening toward the pond. Verily, they perceive not."   BH02229

By what proof have ye established My fabrication, and by what evidence have ye proven that which ye possess is from God, the All-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful? Bring forth a verse, O people of the Bayan, if ye be of the truthful. Be fair, by God, and reject not the truth by what ye possess.   BH05080

We would make peace with the people of the Bayan: if they will not love Me, let them not hate Me. By God! Thou shalt find their turning away from this Light which hath shone forth from the horizons with a luminous countenance, a mighty proof and a supreme evidence.   BH01866

Were it not for My fear of the Nimrod of the Bayan, We would have given thee glad tidings with a word that would cause the realities of those who have drunk the pure wine from the Beauty of God, the Most Manifest, the Most Luminous, to rejoice, and would rend asunder the hearts of the polytheists.   BH10324

Then be thou steadfast in the Cause, for most of the people of the Bayan have turned away from Him in Whom they had believed, and have worshipped the idols of their desires, and were of those who worship idols. Sanctify thyself from these who have disbelieved after having believed and have turned away.   BH03205

"And when the Tablet of the Youth appeareth before thee, take it with the hand of certitude, then enter the gathering-place of the idolaters among the people of the Bayan and say: 'O people! I have come unto you from the Dawning-place of the Cause of your Lord, the All-Merciful, with a manifest proof.'"   BH03317

Despite such clarity, observe to what degree the people of the Bayan have arisen in hatred and enmity, clinging to the word "Mustaghath" and using the school of "Him Whom God shall make manifest" as a pretext, saying "Where is the Mustaghath?" and "Where is the school of Him Whom God shall make manifest?"   AB00089

Then enter the dwelling-place of the polytheists among the people of the Bayan who have disbelieved in God, the Creator of earth and heaven. Say: O people! Abandon that which is vain - the Self-Subsisting hath come upon the clouds of proof. Verily, He is your Lord, the All-Merciful, upon Whom the Bayan depended.   BH03871

Among them are those who have clung to the vain imaginings of the people of the Bayan, and thus have been kept back from the All-Merciful. Say: By God! What was revealed aforetime will profit you not today, except through your recognition of this Book which has been inscribed by the Pen of Revelation from God, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH05523
O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful, and weigh what hath been sent down from the Kingdom of proof against what ye possess. Then be fair, and be not of the wrongdoers. Beware lest the calumnies of the people or the utterances of every associating soul who hath turned away from God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy, hold you back.  BH04705


O people of the Bayan! Strive within yourselves not to act as these idolaters acted. When the Youth of the Spirit entereth upon you with God's Book, arise instantly from your seats, then take the holy Book in your hands, then kiss it, then honor the Youth with gracious respect. By God, this shall profit your souls more than all that ye are engaged in.   BH01596

Some practices were early customs among the people of the Bayan which were prevalent among them and which they followed without right, as you and other loved ones know that before this Most Great Manifestation, most of the people of the Bayan practiced that which accorded with no religion or law, and which no person of intellect or insight would accept.  BH00721

Thou knowest, O my God, that had they drunk the choice wine of inner meanings from the cup of the Bayan and recognized the Manifestation of Thy name, the All-Merciful, they would not have opposed the Beloved of all possibility and the King of all worlds, nor would they have denied Him Whose praise and remembrance the Tongue of Grandeur hath ever spoken.  BH01875

Consider the heedlessness of the people of the Bayan. They have turned away from One Who hath brought that which is equivalent to all the divine Books of the past and future, nay rather more than that - One through Whose Word was made manifest that which was hidden and concealed in the divine Books. Yet they imagine themselves to be the people of truth.  BH03018

shouldst thou find any among the people of the Bayan who have turned away from this resplendent Countenance, say: "O thou that art far removed! If thou didst believe in the Bayan, by what proof hast thou rejected the Beloved of the worlds? By God! Not a word was revealed except in My remembrance and praise, nor was he raised up save to proclaim My Cause"   BH02196


In these wondrous Tablets, newly revealed and sent forth from the Most Holy and Most Glorious Court, observe how during this period all the people of the Bayan, without exception -- even unto the most exalted among them -- have been heedless of the essence of the Cause. Would that after all this heedlessness shown during this time, they might now become mindful and make amends for the past.   BH00931


"Consider those who claim belief in the Bayan - they have disbelieved in God just as did the people before them. They are indeed among the most lost." "Reflect upon the baseness of the people of the Bayan - they have turned away from One from Whose pen flowed the equivalent of all the books on earth and all tidings past and future, and they busy themselves with their own vain imaginings. Fie upon them and their faithlessness!"  BH03897

Fie upon them! It is most certain, evident and proven that every previous Manifestation hath given glad tidings of the subsequent Revelation according to the stations and capacities of the people - some through allusion and some through subtle intimations. But the previous Manifestation, beyond what can be conceived and comprehended, strove in counseling and educating the people of the Bayan. Yet that which came to pass came to pass.  BH00112

They have abandoned the Mother Book and clung to their own desires through the book of perdition. Today the Mother Book calleth out before the faces of all people: O ye that slumber, arise! O ye that are heedless, become aware! Today the world is perfumed by the breezes of the dawn of revelation and illumined by the light of His countenance. Abandon the dawning-places of vain imaginings and break the idols of idle fancies with the arm of certitude.  BH00116

Consider those who claim to belong to the Bayan. They have turned away from the All-Merciful and speak that which causeth the heavens and earth to laugh at them. Among them is he who hath said that He hath claimed Divinity, and that we must not believe in this exalted station. Say: He Who gave you glad tidings of His Own Self hath said that He speaketh in all things, "there is no God but Me, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved." We see them to be more lost in understanding than the people of the Furqan, nay than those of all religions.   BH01401

The people of the Bayan, like unto the people of the Furqan, have clung to vain imaginings and idle fancies, and are diligently engaged in leading the servants astray. Not for a moment have they pondered what the fruits of the deeds, words and beliefs of the Shi'ih party have been. By God! They are in manifest delusion. And now the people of the Bayan are seen to be even more lost, more astray and more remote. They have cast aside certitude and taken fancy as their lord instead of God. They are assuredly among the wrongdoers in God's Book, the Lord of all worlds.   BH00971

Until now, the people of the Bayan have not perceived the fragrance of the Day of God, nor have they become aware of the hidden mysteries in the blessed word "He doeth whatsoever He willeth." They have not attained even a drop of this ocean. Blindly and ignorantly they run about and speak. At times they mention the alteration of the Bayan, and at other times they speak of other matters. They have contrived calumnies that perchance they might thereby conceal the lights of the Sun of the supreme horizon. In truth, they are seen to be the most lost among the parties of the world.   BH00261

