
if he deals unjustly and tyranically with his people he forfeits the right to govern them  ABU3550

Know this: the progress of the nation depends on the influence, glory, and power of the government, and the power of the government depends on the exaltation, wealth, and prosperity of the nation. These two are twins. Some foolish ones imagine that if the government's authority is diminished, comfort and joy will appear. This is not so. The more the authority of a just government increases, the more the nation advances, and this is an inevitable truth doubted only by the ignorant and oppressive.  AB00037


this mighty government which strives for the comfort of its people and the safety of its subjects  AB07843

this mighty Government which strives for the comfort of its people and the safety of its subjects  ABU2813

Government and people must mix together like honey and milk, otherwise success and prosperity are impossible... Therefore the friends of God must strive with heart and soul to bring about reconciliation between government and people   AB00947

Therefore, O friends of God, strive with heart and soul so that reconciliation may occur between the government and people. And if you become powerless, withdraw. Beware, beware of becoming involved in the bloodshed of any Iranian.  AB12167

It is good for a country's development to have two or more political parties, for they check and oppose each other's excesses. But if these parties become selfish and inimical toward each other, they will destroy the happiness of the people. The political organizations must pledge themselves in the sight of God to work for the general progress of the country irrespective of party line and party allegiance.  ABU1060

The government and people must blend together like honey and milk, otherwise progress and success is impossible. Iran will be ruined and the end result will be interference by neighboring powers." Therefore the friends of God must strive with heart and soul to bring about reconciliation between the government and people, and if unable, they should withdraw. Beware, beware of becoming involved in the bloodshed of any Iranian... Now you must occupy yourselves with spreading the divine fragrances and explaining the clear verses, and strive for Iran's material and spiritual progress so this weakened body may gain strength. But do not interfere in political affairs - this is the duty of all the friends.  AB00734

However, the government has the right to carry out retribution through other means apart from the heir.  AB09248

Until government and people blend together like honey and milk, prosperity and salvation is impossible.  AB03672

Greatly did we rejoice at the glad tidings of the mingling of government and nation like honey and milk.  AB10464

I supplicate unto God that He may assist thee in such wise that both sovereign and vassal may be pleased with thee  AB03866

the government and people must blend together like honey and milk, otherwise success and prosperity are impossible  AB12167

government and nation must mix like honey and milk or else foreign powers will interfere; both sides ignored this advice  AB00943

The supreme concern of any government must be the establishment of equal justice and equal opportunity amongst its citizens.   ABU2628

Make hearts sympathetic, draw souls together, create harmony between ruler and ruled, and bring accord between leader and led.  AB05997

We wish well for both sides and guide both toward unity, so that, God willing, government and people may blend together like milk and sugar.  AB01606

However, this Oppressed One beseeches God for that which is the cause of the exaltation of the government and the advancement of the nation.   BH03091

"The greatest means of progress in this world is the connection between government and people, and the unity of the follower and the followed."  AB01934

It was written repeatedly that until the government and people mix with each other like milk and sugar, peace and purpose will not be achieved.  AB12134

"Kings must rule with wisdom and justice; prince, peer and peasant alike have equal rights to just treatment, there must be no favour shown to individuals."   ABU1959

We have written repeatedly that government and people must blend together like milk and sugar, otherwise progress and prosperity are impossible and unattainable.   AB01057


What is meant by the government that must be obeyed is a just government that protects the rights of all humanity - a constitutional government that operates under sound laws.  AB01007

Iran needs laws and principles. It would be better if this matter occurred through consultation with and knowledge of the religious scholars of the nation and nobles of the government  ABU1602

We wrote and exhorted them, pointing out that the union of government and the people is like combining milk and honey; otherwise, the neighboring governments will encroach upon the country.  ABU2830

today a despotic government cannot be held any more, and until the Royalist and Nationalist can become blended as milk and sugar, tranquility and prosperity cannot be obtained   ABU0841

Even at the beginning of the revolution it was explicitly written that until the government and people mix together like honey and milk, success and prosperity are impossible and unattainable.   ABU2852

Before the war it was written, that is, in explicit terms in 'Abdu'l-Baha's own hand, that government and people must mix like honey and milk, otherwise Iran would be laid waste, and so forth.   AB00237

This conflict and strife and discord between the government and people is causing the ruin of Iran. I beseech God that the people obey the government and the government deal justly with the people   AB02364


Love for the just government is at its utmost strength. You all know this, for its praise and commendation have flowed from the Supreme Pen. It is therefore evident how highly esteemed it is in our sight.  AB10896

Your duty is to be a well-wisher of that respected person and to guide towards compassion for the people, for the good of all lies in this. Strive as much as you can that these two elements become one element  AB10704

until the government and people mix like milk and honey, progress and prosperity are impossible and unattainable... strive so that complete harmony and unity may be achieved between the government and people   ABU1542

when the sincere purposes and the justice of the sovereign, the knowledge and perfect political efficiency of the ministers of state and the ambition and enthusiasm of the people are all realized at the same time  ABU3180


Similarly when the government represents the ideals of progress and justice, the people will advance and co-operate in their dealings. The ideal communication will bind together the hearts and the root of poverty will be struck.   ABU2685

The election of temporary members of the assemblies of the kingdom should depend upon the choice and satisfaction of the public, for members elected by the people are pledged to carry out their will, and to follow out their instructions.   ABU3097


We will praise parliament when it blends with the government like milk and sugar, becomes the cause of the country's progress, and promotes justice. Then we will pray and seek confirmation, and pledge and guarantee divine assistance, and we hope it will be so.   AB00187

For now, the present governing body of Iran cannot be compared to the past. Their intention is the prosperity and comfort and ease and security of Iran. The loved ones of God must give thanks and serve with perfect truthfulness and goodwill and purity and freedom.  AB00757

At the outset of that revolution in Persia known as the Constitutional Revolution, I wrote again and again that until such time as that government and its people become commingled, even as milk and honey, their success and prosperity will remain entirely unattainable.  ABU3725

This is a matter between loyal subjects and their glorious sovereign. His Majesty is the just shepherd, the monarch who bestows benefit, knowing what is best for his subjects. And loyal subjects seek their comfort and happiness in the shadow of obedience to the crown.   AB01872

For today the imperial government is the protector of the oppressed and guardian of the dispossessed. And it is hoped from the sympathies and favors of the Glorious Lord that general benefits and good fruits will result from their excellent conduct and wise governance.   AB11901

May the complete connection between government and people be restored once again, and may the just monarch rule successfully and govern with perfect power and might from the throne of sovereignty with care for his subjects, becoming the cause of Iran and Iranians' eternal glory.  AB02279

Absolutely, absolutely they must not contemplate undertaking any matter without seeking permission and authorization from the government, for praise be to God, the government of His Imperial Majesty is just, agreeable, benevolent, kind and protective of the rights of its subjects.   AB02819

Therefore, a treaty must be executed between government and people, with the rights of both sides fixed, preserved, clear and specified, so that neither can transgress. It is best if this treaty between government and people be made with the knowledge of foreign powers, so they can be guarantors of this treaty   AB00496

Should this momentous matter, which is among the most important of all affairs, be established and promoted, there is no doubt that Iran will soon become prosperous and flourishing, and its honored people will progress day by day in modern advancements and ascend to the highest degrees of success and prosperity.  AB02483

Soon you will observe that these disturbing events will pass away and the government will become firmly established and steadfast in utmost stability. Consultation will become the cause of firmness and steadfastness, especially a government whose confirmation and strengthening has been decreed by the Supreme Pen.   AB00933

Rather, both the government and the people should develop such trust that they would wish for all affairs in the provinces to be entrusted to the pure and goodly hands of the friends of God, and through this means Iran and Iranians would make rapid progress and the means of comfort and ease would be provided for all peoples   AB06140


Then divine policy shall govern the world, for the divine policy is the oneness of humanity. No matter how complete human policy and foresight may appear, they are imperfect. If we do not seek the counsel of God or if we refuse to follow His dictates, it is presumptive evidence that we are knowing and wise, whereas God is ignorant.  ABU0268

You must pray that the people will, with the utmost approbation, obey the government, and will invest with authority the considered views of the public servants at the center of authority. May it not listen to the whispering of the wreakers of corruption. And may it not engage in opposition to or conflict with the State, unlike the Russian Duma.   AB00508

The epistle was published in India and a printed copy was sent to Tehran through Ali Akbar. All the barbarous and bewildering events of this day are mentioned therein. I set forth, with clear proofs and irrefutable arguments, that all should be obedient to the government, and that the leaders of religion should in no wise interfere in political affairs.   AB01413

The inhabitants of a nation must intelligently fulfill the requirements of the constitutional government and abide by all its conditions, otherwise it will bring upon them greater lawlessness and disintegration; for the reins will be taken out of the hands of an able, absolute Monarch and placed into the hands of a number of self-interested, useless parasites.  ABU2156

The assemblage of the people and the pillars of the government render to their King the most earnest service and bear for him the weight of every burden, while his sovereignty is in continuous progress and the nation at constant rise. Can aught be preferred to this? On the one hand the sovereignty is preserved and safe, and on the other the nation is day by day advancing.  AB11815

Then, whether a government is constitutional or republican, hereditary monarchy or democratic, the rulers will devote their time to the prosperity of their nations, the legislation of just and sane laws and the fostering of closer and more amicable relations with their neighbours-thus will the world of humanity become a mirror reflecting the virtues and attributes of the Kingdom of God.   ABU0600

"The parliament can remove him, certainly. In a constitutional monarchy the king has nothing to do. All the affairs are settled by the cabinet and the parliament of the nation." ... "No, the King will appoint the Prime Minister, but he will be responsible to the parliament of the nation. He will be responsible before the members of the parliament and if he is at fault he will be dismissed."  ABU1815

He must devise new plans of reforms. He must encourage the building of national highways, bridges, schools, railroads, expand the limits of commerce and insure the safety and security of the public. If he on the other hand devotes his time to luxury, self-gratification, indulgence in personal likes and dislikes, fosters favoritism and laps in the lap of debauchery he is not a ruler but a hydra-headed public enemy.   ABU1538

"Now" the Master telling to the Governor "it is your watch time. You are not doing anything to improve the condition of the sick country. You are putting him to sleep by giving him narcotics to put him to sleep and when you leave what do you care whether the patient will die or live. You have had your night sleep. Instead of watching the patient solicitously and pulling him through you prefer your own rest and comfort."   ABU1204

There must be a treaty between the government and nation [people], with neighboring powers guaranteeing its observance. If violation occurs, there should be consequences. This is to prevent future difficulties. [...] The foundation is that the good of both sides must be considered, and government and nation must be fully connected through established law so they unite and achieve essential oneness, and this treaty must be very firm  AB07452

Similarly, it was written time and again that until the government and people blend together like milk and honey, prosperity and success would be impossible and unattainable. The letters exist, and even in several detailed letters to Tehran it was explicitly written, including to the Shah's trusted confidant, that if the government and people do not blend together and unite, affairs would become entirely disordered and neighboring powers would intervene.  AB00113

In France, when several people caused division between government and nation and rose up against the government and overthrew their sincere and kind king, afterwards the nation tore those same instigating persons to pieces and destroyed and eliminated them... Now too the evil clergy are calling the people to uprising, but the end result of these matters, even if the masses follow them and a parliament is established, "their plots will return upon their own necks."   AB02050

That treatise can certainly be found in Tihran, a copy is sent to you so that you may share it with all the people, inasmuch as that which result in hardships and dissention and mischief are explained clearly in that treatise. In it, the sacred rights of the government, the legitimate rights of the governed, the connection between the statesmen and their subjects and the relationship between the ruler and the ruled and the mechanism of operation between the manager and the managed are clearly laid down.  AB00412

Therefore, the pillars of His Imperial Majesty's government must, aside from maintaining justice among the subjects, for the sake of governance itself, show consideration to the practicing divines and prevent the ignorant leaders. They must restrain the hands of such souls, who are like fierce wolves, from aggression, and forbid the attacks of such a rebellious band. Otherwise, day by day they will increase in audacity, interfere in the affairs of the realm, and throw the country and kingdom into confusion.   AB00026


The intervention of the government and the courts in the problems arising between owners and workers is fully warranted, since these are not such particular matters as are ordinary transactions between two individuals, which do not concern the public and in which the government should have no right to interfere. For problems between owners and workers, though they may appear to be a private matter, are detrimental to the common good, since the commercial, industrial and agricultural affairs, and even the general business of the nation, are all intimately linked together.   AB00099

Now, if peace of mind and joy of conscience are desired, fellowship between government and people must be sought in a pleasing and attractive manner. Every unbiased well-wisher should serve this purpose so that the country may find peace and the nation may attain order and comfort. Without this it is impossible and unattainable. However, it must be implemented with the utmost perfection so that no difficulties arise in the future. Therefore, a firm covenant must be established between the government and the people, and the rights of both parties must be defined and confirmed.  AB01216

It is thus incumbent upon you who are mindful and awake to implore the grace of God and to be among the righteous, to partake of the brimful cup of Divine bestowals and to obtain your share and portion of His infinite favors. Let your thoughts be fixed on comingling the government and the people like unto a delightful draught and on blending them even as honey and milk. The laws and precepts of the government must be kept with the utmost submissiveness and subordination, for a just government is the very soul of the world, and a constitutional monarchy the gift of God to mankind.  AB04707

Consequently, we in general, who are the well-wishers of the government and Persian nation, with utmost gratification are praising and commending the justice of His Royal Highness, the Prince, and are content and glad; and in order to manifest our thanks we present this petition; and whatever in the line of service is commanded us, we are ready to comply with the most extreme diligence. We ask earnestly from God that the Imperial Government become everlasting, His Imperial Majesty, the just Shah, remain and live long, and His Royal Highness, the Prince, become to every subject a divine gift and that he may become confirmed and helped in all affairs.   AB02316

Should an official, on the contrary, think that all responsibility for his actions must end with his earthly life, knowing and believing nothing of Divine favors and a spiritual kingdom of joy, he will lack the incentive to just dealing, and the inspiration to destroy oppression and unrighteousness. When a ruler knows that his judgments will be weighed in a balance by the Divine Judge, and that if he be not found wanting he will come into the Celestial Kingdom and that the light of the Heavenly Bounty will shine upon him, then will he surely act with justice and equity. Behold how important it is that Ministers of State should be enlightened by religion!  ABU0253
