
Thus doth the body obey the spirit and the outer form reflect the inner reality.   AB01601

Like a bird in the cage of this body he was captive and confined. This cage was broken and that bird took flight  AB02970

Q. What is the connection of the spirit with the body?  A. It has the same connection as the sun has with the mirror. Death is the name for the dissolution of this connection.  ABU3571

Here we are subject to the conditions of matter; after this will succeed life on the mental plane, a life freed from this material body.  ABU2537

"He didn't understand You the other day, my Lord. He thinks that You teach asceticism, that the spirit and the flesh are two separate things."  "That is not what I said," the Master replied. "I said that the spiritual man and the materialist were two different beings. The spirit is in the flesh."   ABU3454

Therefore, while physical characteristics will perish, divine qualities will endure. The soul is a divine emanation while the body is an earthly composition.   AB11515

Soul is the material or outer self--the Mind. Mind is the action of the Soul's powers. The Body is the physical covering or medium in which Mind acts and functions.   ABU3225

The body of man is the result of the composition of the elements and these elements are constantly at war with each other. But the spirit of man is from the world of God.   ABU2931

The physical body of man is like that of the animal, the only difference being on the level of consciousness. It follows therefore that only consciousness or mind is left after death.  ABU2186

Mutilation of the body brings no harm to the soul. This is one of the proofs of the immortality of the soul, for death consists of the change and dispersion of the members and elements of the body.   ABU2979

Were the souls created as individuals before they entered the physical bodies of this world?" Abdu'l-Baha: "They existed before coming to this world, but NOT as we know personality upon this planet."  ABU3556

"We know that the body or form has nothing to do with the spirit or spiritual conditions. When the spirit is disconnected from or leaves the body, that is no reason for thinking it can be re-absorbed or joined with the whole of spirit, as the drops of water are absorbed or lost in the sea. The earth is one unit, yet how many beings and separate parts it contains! The body of man is one unit, yet it has an infinite number of separate and individual parts that compose it--such as eyes, fingers, etc.; so, in like manner, spirit is one, but consisting of many differentiated parts."  ABU2772

Nevertheless, its connection to the body is apparent, and resembleth the connection of the sun to a mirror. Should the bond of association become severed, the body will become deprived and the mirror obscured.  AB03491

"But if there is a harmony in man, a quiet concord, in brief, a unity between voluntary and involuntary processes, between conscious and unconscious will, then there will result an agreement of human and divine will"  ABU0453

The spirit is absolutely placeless and immaterial, but it has a connection with the body, even as the sun has a connection with this mirror: The sun occupies no place within the mirror but it has a connection with it.  AB00336

It is not the body which feels pain or trouble but the soul. If we have a pain in our arm the defect is in the body yet it is the soul which feels the pain and is troubled, not the body, though the body is the cause of that trouble.  ABU3340

Bodily matters are not important. The physical suffering of Christ passed away, but his spirit was everlasting. These bodily sufferings come and pass away, but the spirit is eternal. The body is not important. The spirit is important.  ABU1893

"The body weakens, but the soul is not affected. The body becomes incapacitated or paralyzed, but the soul suffers no change. No matter how many of man's limbs become amputated, the condition of the soul is unvarying and undergoes no change whatsoever."  ABU0184

Spirit shines through the body as the sun is reflected in the mirror. The spirit is like the sun--it has a connection with the body like that of the sun to the mirror. The mirror is lighted by the sun, and when the connection is broken the mirror becomes dark.  ABU2279

The body of man becomes lean or fat; it is afflicted with disease, suffers mutilation; perhaps the eyes become blind, the ears deaf; but none of these imperfections and failings afflict or affect the spirit. The spirit of man remains in the same condition, unchanged.  ABU0241

No matter if the limbs of your body are feeble, praised be God your spirit is robust; for it is even as the Christ hath said: The flesh is weak, and despondeth, but the spirit rejoiceth greatly. Know then that from this very spirit, thy body too will take on strength.   AB04405

We cannot accomplish really great things through physical force alone; the spirit must fortify our bodily strength... The spirit must assist the body under certain conditions which surround us, because the body of itself cannot endure the extreme strain of such hardships.   ABU0825

Our body is like the cage, and the spirit is like the bird. We see that without the cage this bird flies in the world of sleep; therefore, if the cage becomes broken, the bird will continue to exist; its feelings will be even more powerful, its perceptions greater and its happiness increased.  AB03579

"He was imprisoned in this material cage, he was like unto a bird, he was in the troubles of this life enduring its vicissitudes. He broke this cage and flew away. From this terrestrial [...] he ascended to the heavenly rose-garden. From this darkened world he ascended to the world of illumination."  ABU0758

when weakness occurs in the body due to austerities and eating and drinking less, the manifestations of passion and anger decrease. But this quieting of anger and reduction in passion is accidental, not essential, since whenever one returns to eating and drinking, one returns to the original state.  ABU1983

In connection with the impossibility of descent in the planes of existence, the point of the effect of old age in the form of second childhood was raised. 'Abdu'l-Baha said that was not really a deterioration of the essential part of the man, the mind or spirit, but a weakening of the functional organs.   ABU3189

The body of man may become weak, it may become ill or incapacitated, or it may become healthy, but the soul remains unchanging in its own state. If the body becomes weak, the soul is not weakened; if the body becomes corpulent, the soul is not enlarged; if the body becomes indisposed, the soul does not suffer.  ABU0205

The soul is a link between the body and the spirit. It receives bounties and virtues from the spirit and gives them to the body just as the outward senses carry to the inward senses what they receive from the outer world in order that it may remain deposited in the memory and may be made serviceable by man through his power  ABU3157

When we speak of the soul we mean the motive power of this physical body which lives under its entire control in accordance with its dictates. If the soul identifies itself with the material world it remains dark, for in the natural world there is corruption, aggression, struggles for existence, greed, darkness, transgression and vice.   ABU0586

The human spirit is not within the body; because it is exalted above all egress and ingress, above all circling and turning which only appertains to the essence (nature) of matter. The human spirit (or the soul) is a ray, a reflex out of God, and the relationship of the spirit and body is like that of the sun and the mirror. The spirit illumines the body.  ABU0017

These changing conditions of the bodily composition are definite and continual. At one time it is normal, at another time abnormal. Now it is weak, now strong. It suffers injury, a hand may be amputated, a limb broken, an eye destroyed, an ear deafened or some defect appear in a certain organ, but these changes do not affect the human spirit, the soul of man.  ABU0138

The spirit results from the union of body and soul; this spirit becomes immortal, always remaining with the soul and forming for it, after death, a sort of ethereal body. The human spirit is superior to the body and struggles with it for control of the soul: when it succeeds, the soul becomes heavenly, when the body obtains the control, the soul becomes degraded.  ABU2909

We see that cold, heat, suffering, etc, only concern the body, they do not touch the spirit. How often do we see a man, poor, sick, miserably clad, and with no means of support, yet spiritually strong. Whatever his body has to suffer, his spirit is free and well! Again, how often do we see a rich man, physically strong and healthy, but with a soul sick unto death.  ABU0626

The ears can hear the voice in a limited distance, the vision of the eyes similarly is circumscribed but the spirit sees the East and the West; while in the West it organizes important affairs in the East; while on earth it discovers heavenly satellites; it unfolds the mysteries of phenomena; it goes under the earth and brings into the light of day the geologic secrets.   ABU1447

In order to seize the actions of the rational soul, we need the mediation of the body; but the soul can act directly without this intermediary. Thus, when we sleep the soul sees without the help of the eyes. The auditory nerves are inactive, but the soul hears. Our members are in repose, but the soul is in movement. Our body is in the room, our soul is traveling through all horizons.  ABU1201

Death consisteth of the severing of that connection. That connection resembleth the relationship between a mirror and the sun. The sun does not enter into or depart from the mirror, and does not incarnate itself therein, but hath a connection to the mirror and is reflected within it. When that connection becometh severed, the mirror is deprived of its brilliance, loveliness, and charm.  AB00457

The body is made joyous, and then that joyousness is transmitted to the soul. The body will receive a share of every effect which is found in the spirit. For instance, if the spirit be rejoiced, then the effect will be over the body, and that means dancing. If the spirit be affected, with sadness the eyes begin to weep. Therefore, it is self evident that the body receives the impressions of the spirit.  ABU2123

Just as the spirit of man is the cause of the life of his body, so is the whole world even as a body and man as its spirit. If man did not exist, if the perfections of the spirit were not manifested and the light of the mind was not shining in this world, it would be like a body without a spirit. Beyond this, this world is even as a tree and man as the fruit; without the fruit the tree would be of no use.   AB00919

In the physical powers and senses, however, man and the animal are partners. In fact, the animal is often superior to man in sense perception. For instance, the vision of some animals is exceedingly keen and the hearing of others most acute. Consider the instinct of a dog: how much greater than that of man. But, although the animal shares with man all the physical virtues and senses, a spiritual power has been bestowed upon man of which the animal is devoid.  ABU0096

The body is the cage. The spirit is the nightingale. Once the doors of the cage are opened, once the fetters of that prison-house are broken - the nightingale will soar toward the Rose-garden of Eternity and on the branches of the Tree of Life it shall perch, singing sweetly the songs of Freedom and Peace. Once the nightingale is out of the cage, it will not even look at it. What does the free bird want to do with a shuttered cage, even if it is made of gold?   ABU1776

When man dies, his relation with the body ceases. The sun is reflected in the mirror; the mirror reflects the light and brilliancy of the sun, but the sun does not reside in the mirror. It does not enter nor come out of the mirror, nevertheless one sees it in the mirror, so the soul reflects itself in the body. If the mirror be broken the sun does not die. The body is the temporary mirror; the spiritual soul suffers no change, no more than the sun does remaining eternally in its own station.  ABU0541

Since the pure essence, whose identity is unknown, possesses the virtues of the worlds of matter and of the Kingdom, it has two aspects -- first, the material and physical; second, the mental and spiritual -- which are attributes not found as qualities of matter. It is the same reality which is given different names, according to the different conditions wherein it becomes manifest. Because of its attachment to matter and the phenomenal world, when it governs the physical functions of the body it is called the human soul.  ABU0185

The spirit is endowed with two powers of perception and influence: one through the agency of corporeal instruments and organs. Thus it sees through the eye, hears through the ear, and speaks through the tongue. These operations of the human spirit and manifestations of human reality are effected through bodily instruments. Hence it is the spirit that sees, albeit through the instrumentality of the eye; it is the spirit that hears, though by means of the ear; it is the spirit that speaks, yet through the agency of the tongue.   AB00228

This physical frame undergoes change and transformation, but for the spirit there is no transformation. The body falls ill, but no defect occurs in the spirit. The body's members become impaired, but the spirit remains in its perfect state. When the defect and decay of any bodily member causes no harm to the spirit, then the defect and decay of all members likewise causes no harm to the spirit. The body is like a garment. If the garment is torn, its wearer need not perish. It is like a rider - if the mount perishes, the rider does not perish.   ABU0551

Furthermore, during a conversation you say: "I said so and so," "I went to that place." But who is it that is saying these things? It is a second reality with which one deliberates as to whether a certain action is beneficial or harmful, and whether it should be performed or not. What consequences will it have? It is the soul with which you are conversing. If it says: "Do this action," you do it, or vice versa. It is evident that this second reality is the rider, while the bodily reality it the mount. The former is the lamp, while the latter is the globe.   ABU0078

The truth, however, is that the rational soul is the substance through which the body subsists. If the accident--the body--is destroyed, the substance--the spirit--remains. Secondly, the rational soul, or the human spirit, does not subsist through this body by inherence--that is to say, it does not enter it, for inherence and entrance are characteristics of bodies, and the rational soul is sanctified above this. It never entered this body to begin with that it should require, upon leaving it, some other abode. No, the connection of the spirit with the body is even as the connection of this lamp with a mirror.  AB01631

Though the body of man is visible, his soul is hidden and is the ruler of the body. The soul has two ways of acting. The first is through the agency of organs and instruments; that is to say, with the eyes it sees, with the ears it hears, and with the tongue it speaks. When these instruments are in action, it is the soul which motivates them. Although these faculties [such as sight and hearing] appear to be from the body, they really proceed from the soul. The second way of acting is without the use of instruments. In the world of the dream, the soul sees without eyes, it hears without ears, speaks without a tongue, and travels without movement.  ABU0114

As to the body, it is but an instrument for the spirit, for it is the spirit that moveth, acteth, acquireth, committeth both good and evil. Sin and righteousness, cruelty and kindliness spring from the soul and spirit, not from the helpless body. Thus, just as torment and punishment, joy and sorrow, grief and gladness are felt by the spirit, so too are reward and recompense, retribution and requital--which are the consequences of one's deeds--visited upon the spirit and not the body. No sword is called to account for slaying the innocent, and no arrow is reproached for wounding the helpless, for these are but instruments, not agents; they are governed, not governors; they are subdued, not subduing.  AB00068

Observe that during sleep, the human body and physical powers of hearing, sight, smell, taste and touch are inactive, meaning all physical faculties are impaired. Despite this, the human reality has spiritual life and spiritual powers have utmost influence in making wonderful discoveries in East and West, perhaps uncovering matters that will appear in the physical world after a long time. Thus it becomes clear that the human reality's permanence and influence are not conditional on the physical frame. Rather, this physical frame is an instrument upon which the human spirit casts its rays, like the sun shining upon a mirror making it bright, and when the sun's connection to the mirror is cut off, the mirror becomes dark.   AB00075

Thus it is proven and established that the spirit is mighty and the body in relation to the spirit is insignificant. The body is like crystal and the spirit like light. Though the crystal may be utterly pure, the manifestation and radiance of the crystal depends on the purity of the light. Light needs not the crystal but shines forth, while the crystal needs the light to become illumined. Likewise, the spirit needs not the body, but the body needs the spirit. The spirit is not alive through the body; the body is alive through the spirit. Observe that however much the body may diminish, the spirit remains in its might and power. If a person's hand is severed, the spirit maintains its power and dominion. If the eye becomes blind, the spirit retains its vision. But if the spirit's effusions are cut off from the body, the body instantly perishes.  ABU0088


Beyond this, the members, constituent parts and composition that are found within man attract and act as a magnet for the spirit: the spirit is bound to appear in it. Thus, when a mirror is polished, it is bound to attract the rays of the sun, to be illumined, and to reflect splendid images. That is, when these physical elements are gathered and combined together, according to the natural order and with the utmost perfection, they become a magnet for the spirit, and the spirit will manifest itself therein with all its perfections.   AB00919

"He didn't understand You the other day, my Lord. He thinks that You teach asceticism, that the spirit and the flesh are two separate things." "That is not what I said," the Master replied. "I said that the spiritual man and the materialist were two different beings. The spirit is in the flesh."   ABU3454

The exaltation of this physical world is an imaginary conception and mere appearance, a matter of convention. In reality there exists no high or low, no descent or ascent.  AB10075


Among all parts of the human body, both spiritual and physical connections are clear and manifest. For instance, between the mind and human organs there exists a spiritual connection. But between members such as the eye, ear, hand, and foot, there exists an evident connection. In brief, interaction exists, cooperation and mutual assistance are manifest, yet all this interaction is connected to the spiritual force of the human soul, which is the axis and mover of this interaction.  ABU1362
