
The sun is always the sun. According to the position of the earth we receive its radiation differently.  ABU1957

The foundation underlying all religions is one and the same. The foundation of all the divine religions is reality.   ABU0035

Each time hath its own appropriate way. Always doth the divine religion appear and become manifest according to what is befitting for that day.   BH00779

Denomination, sects, religious confessions are but a variously close or loose connection with God: adorned with additions which are different with time and place.   ABU1484

Inasmuch as human interpretations and blind imitations differ widely, religious strife and disagreement have arisen among mankind, the light of true religion has been extinguished and the unity of the world of humanity destroyed.  ABU0161

Different things are considered by us as of supreme importance - while in reality it has a relative importance - at our various stages of development. For example when we were children, we considered "play" as of supreme importance but now that we are grown more important matters engage our attention.  ABU2384


"speak always with the people from their standpoint. If you explain the difficult problems of mathematics or geometry for the children they will not understand, it is above and beyond their comprehension. That is why his holiness Christ says: I have many things to say unto you but you cannot comprehend them now, [howbeit] when the spirit of truth shall come he will lead you to all truth."  ABU0877

I speak according to the demands of the time and the capacity of my listeners. 'The father makes gurgling sounds for the newborn infant, although his wisdom be capable of measuring the universe.'   ABU3480

This book [Some Answered Questions] hath been written for the people of the West, not for the divines. For the divines, the Fara'id is most suitable. This book hath been penned for the Europeans, and the discourse therein hath been fashioned according to their disposition, as though spoken at their table. The divines have their own disposition, the mystics have theirs, and likewise the Christians, Zoroastrians and Jews have theirs.  ABU0675

For example, in the manifestation of the Bayan, when the Point of Truth found that you had become attached to names, therefore I informed you of their return, or their manifestation, or their resurrection, or other such terms that you might comprehend. Otherwise, the Cause in the sight of God is not as you imagine.  BB00003
