Religion is a manifest light.   BH10723

What is religion? Religion is connection with God. There is one God. There is but one possibility for connection.   ABU1484

The world of existence is like the human body - material forces are like its organs and parts. But this body needs a spirit to animate it, to give it life and vitality, to endow it with sight, hearing, memory and perception, so that the light of intellect may shine within it. Through this power it becomes the discoverer of the realities of things and attains the progress of the human world. Without the spirit, no matter how beautiful and graceful the body may be, these results cannot be achieved - it is merely a lifeless form without consciousness, without intelligence, deprived of perfection. Similarly, although the body of the contingent world may be at the height of freshness and delicacy in the material realm, it is without spirit. Its spirit is the divine religion - divine religion is the spirit of the contingent world.... By spirit is meant the reality of religion. ABU0690

I asked him about the new religion his father had founded. He answered me that his father had not really founded a new religion, but a Bahaistic Organization. This derives its name from the prophet Bahaulah, his father. For six thousand years, he continued, there has been intolerance and struggle among the various religions themselves, and also fanaticism, hate and political discord among the various peoples and countries.  ABU0477

today the darkness of the world of nature has encompassed the horizons. Only through the heavenly teachings of Baha'u'llah can humanity be saved from this darkness and become illumined. All these teachings pertain to the world of morals - they do not interfere with any of the religions. The teachings of Baha'u'llah are spiritual, heavenly, luminous, free, freedom of conscience, deliver humanity from the world of dust and bring it to the pure world, are the breathings of the Holy Spirit, are eternal life, are the lights of the Sun of Reality, illumine the world. AB07457

When once we have real religion, war will cease.  ABU3418

religion was one truth which the sectarians had divided   ABU2794

The nations of the world strive to increase their armaments to such an extent that they become like serpents, rushing at one another, and much blood is shed. The wise ones among the nations gather to investigate the cause, and become aware that the cause of bloodshed is prejudices, the most severe of which is religious prejudice. They strive to eliminate religion so that prejudice, which is a branch of religion, might also disappear. Then they realize that humanity cannot live without religion. Therefore, they gather and study the teachings of existing religions to see which religion conforms to the requirements of the time. BHU0024

Strive that religion may be cleansed from ignorant prejudices   ABU1561

it matters not what name each calls himself - The Great Work is One. Christ is ever in the world of existence. He has never disappeared out of it.... Rest assured that Christ is present. The Spiritual beauty we see around us today is from the breathings of Christ.  ABU3346

The divine religion is luminosity, good character, the spirit of the world.  ABU0633

People think religion is confined in an edifice, to be worshipped at an altar. In reality it is an attitude toward divinity which is reflected through life.  ABU1955

Religion is an attitude toward God which reflects itself in our attitude towards men.  ABU3608

Religion consisteth of two letters - one letter is that there is none other God but He, the Lord of all things, and the other letter is that all besides Him is His creation. Between them there is no third letter, nor beneath them a fourth letter, nor besides them a fifth letter. Behold all this with your own eyes and entertain no doubts.  BB00004

Man must possess the religion of God which is the source of all valour, moral and intellectual. If he has not this, he may have at least, the simple "natural religion" of humanity. But there are an increasing number of men and women who are devoid of either of these two necessary qualities and they always fail in the real test of life. Outwardly they boast of courage but inwardly they lack the backbone to stand the ordeal. ABU3079

The Supreme Pen has summoned the people to that which draweth them nigh unto God  BH04055


The divine laws and religions are God's dispensary. The remedy for every ailment exists therein.   ABU2458


True Religion has nothing to do with human imagination. God's Will is independent of human opinion.  ABU2646


The essence of all religions is the Love of God, and it is the foundation of all the sacred teachings  ABU0984

"Alas, alas! the world has not discovered the reality of religion hidden beneath the symbolic forms!"   ABU0873

the unity of all religions, so that when the people of the world recognize the truth of all religions, they may become united since truth is one   ABU2221

In truth, the world of existence has been renewed. Therefore, the foundation of religion must also be renewed.   ABU3137

this kind of transformation of hearts is not achieved by any power except divine religion and spiritual teachings   ABU1305

Religion is Divine Education. Divine Education is the sum total of all development. It is the safeguard of humanity.  ABU1956

Dost thou know what is the pearl and gem? It is the divine Faith and heavenly teachings and praise of the Lord of Glory.  AB10950

The fundamental basis of all divine religions is one and the same. In that sense the Bahai movement is not a new religion.   ABU0365

Make not the religion of God a cause of variance among you. Verily of a truth, it was revealed for the unifying of the whole world.  BH11456

Our relationship to God, the Lord, must rest on two basic pillars: willing submission of one's own will to the divine Will, and uprightness. In the latter basic condition we fail, if we try to satisfy our conscience and our longing with empty formalism and dead dogmatism. ABU3247

In truth, the religion of God is the school of perfections wherein the meanings of the virtues and qualities of the Kingdom are taught.  AB10598


the internal, spiritual Idea is the same in all the religions, that a unique, general plan underlies the foundation of the past Faiths   ABU3057


By religion I mean the lights of the Sun of Reality, and the foundation of divine religions is one - it is one reality, one spirit, one light. It has no multiplicity.  ABU0235

Regard religion as the orb of the sun and love as its light. Thus doth the tongue of this Wronged One speak forth in His prison, that thou mayest be of the steadfast.   BH02105


"I hope that you will try to teach the truth and principles of divine religions to different nations just as you are teaching mathematics to different persons in your school"  ABU2324

The greatest bestowal of God in the world of humanity is religion, for assuredly the divine teachings of religion are above all other sources of instruction and development to man.  ABU0015

O people of the earth! Make not God's religion a cause of enmity.  BH07546

Even if one is not a believer, one acknowledges that this law is truly like the spirit in the human world. It promotes itself without people becoming believers. ABU1163


Abraham summoned the people to reality; Moses proclaimed reality; Christ founded reality. Likewise, all the Prophets were the servants and promulgators of reality. Reality is one and indivisible.   ABU0052

True religion also does not change. By true religion I mean the collective ethical ideals of humanity - those fundamental principles which have guided man through the welter of change and confusion.   ABU0969

Christ said, 'What has happened in the past will happen again in the future.' The reason of this is that all things are under the operation of Divine Law which is the same today, yesterday, and forever.   ABU3202

Turn thou thy face to the Church of God which consists in divine instructions and merciful exhortations. For what similarity (is there) between the church of stone and cement and the Celestial Holy of Holies!   AB03738


Therefore strive that the true religion which breathes the spirit of life into the human world may spread. This is the remedy for the sick body of the world. This is the antidote for the deadly poison afflicting humanity.  AB02380

When a man's life is a life of eternal quest after God he will worship Him no matter where he might happen to be. I pray to God in the Mosque, the Church or the Synagogue in the same spirit as if I were in His Presence.   ABU0967

Now, all questions of morality contained in the spiritual, immutable law of every religion are logically right. If religion were contrary to logical reason then it would cease to be a religion and be merely a tradition.   ABU0493

The basic teachings of all divine religions is the same and the Prophets are the dawning places of truth. No one can take exception or say that the principles of the Prophets and the truth of their teachings are different.  ABU1372

The Sun of Reality has dawned from the horizon of the world, casting its effulgence upon the East and the West. He has instructed the world of humanity through heavenly teachings and has become the cause of human solidarity.   AB05484

"Religion is the Cause of fellowship, not strangeness, the motif of ideal communication and not separation, the basis of complete union and not ill-feeling, the foundation of the solidarity of human race and not backbiting."   ABU0237

In this world there are two things which are the cause of man's elevation and progress: one is knowledge and the other is religion. Knowledge helps man to discover the reality of all things and to bring about universal happiness.   ABU2272

Religious community is indeed the cause of exaltation, but only if it is the true religion. Religion is divine religion. True religion is that which is firm and steadfast. That becomes the cause of exaltation, that becomes the cause of progress.  ABU0519


Consider how the Christian religion served as a religious collective center - what communities it formed! The religion of Islam - how many different nations did His Holiness the Prophet unite! The unity of religion eliminated all these differences.  ABU1124


Every moment today cries for a new spirit of baptism and reformation. Where is the universal Reformer? For the dispelling of these darknesses there must needs be a Light. Now investigate day and night so that you may discover the source of this Light!   ABU1631

The Religion of God is honor to humanity; why make it the cause of degradation? Why make it the cause of darkness and gloom? Assuredly it is a thousand pities that the cause of such a glorious reality should become the cause of degradation and hatred.   ABU0607

Baha'u'llah is the same Light in a new Lamp. To see, we must look at the Light and not at the Lamp. This is Spiritual Sight. The sun is one orb, but it has different rising-points on the horizon. One point was Jesus, one Moses, one Baha'u'llah, and so on.   ABU0468

All that thou seest and readest and knowest is but fancy and imagination, ignorance and error, save that which appeareth from the Truth and returneth unto the Truth. All that existeth in creation is fancy or imagination or reflections in mirrors or shadows.  AB08125


That which is a reality and is eternal and everlasting is the love of God, is the knowledge of His Highness, the Forgiver, is the spread of the perspicuous religion of God, the uplifting of the Word of God, and the diffusion of the lights of the guidance of God!   AB03890


The teachings of Christ are forgotten. Consider that Christ commanded Peter to sheathe his sword. He also said, 'Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also'. But now, contrary to these teachings, see how Christians are killing one another.  ABU2836

Material affairs are of two kinds.  The first are those concerns that have no direct relation to life.  They contribute toward luxury, effeminacy, indolence and voluptuousness.  Indulgence in these things make one negligent of God and stifles all traces of spirituality.  ABU2801

Although this custom does not exist in the religion of God, yet it demonstrates the superlative degree of severance. Man must live beneath the shade of the commandments of the religion of God and at the same time soar in such a pure atmosphere of holiness and severance.   ABU2081

The foundations of divine religion do not negate sound reason and true science. The principles of divine religion do not contradict knowledge and insight, except for some principles and minutiae of the law which were given according to the exigencies of the time and age.  ABU1366


Religion, moreover, is not a series of beliefs, a set of customs; religion is the teachings of the Lord God, teachings which constitute the very life of humankind, which urge high thoughts upon the mind, refine the character, and lay the groundwork for man's everlasting honour.   AB00829

That which endureth is the spiritual reality, it is the shining essence; it is life eternal, it is undisturbed felicity, unfading and perpetual, flourishing and plenteous. The revolution of cycles is powerless to ravage it, nor can the succession of ages and centuries molest it.   AB04278

Christ declares that it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God. Observe how the power of God's Cause has transformed the eye of the needle into a vast plain, and both rich and poor have entered in troops, one after another.  AB08062

"The Cause of Baha'u'llah embraces all the past Dispensations and manifests all their benefits to human society. It is like a tree that has many strong branches. The Faith of Baha'u'llah contains all the teachings beneficial to the world of humanity and will profit every segment of society."  ABU1991


This is the cycle of maturity and reformation in religion as well. Dogmatic imitations of ancestral beliefs are passing. They have been the axis around which religion revolved but now are no longer fruitful; on the contrary, in this day they have become the cause of human degradation and hindrance.   ABU0101


Today when a tree is dried, a new shoot springs from its original root, so in reality the Christian Dispensation is from the same Mosaic root, etc. Today the Baha'i Tree has sprung up from the root of all the former prophetic Trees. To serve this Tree, to irrigate this Tree, is to serve and irrigate all the other Trees.   ABU1089


Today, the greatest and speediest remedy and the sole effective antidote that the Divine Physician has prescribed for the world's ills is the oneness of humanity, universal peace, the explanation of the principles of the divine religions and the removal of dogmatic imitations and customs which are contrary to science and reason.   ABU1968

The religions of God have the same foundation, but the dogmas appearing later have differed. Each of the divine religions has two aspects. The first is essential. It concerns morality and development of the virtues of the human world. This aspect is common to all. It is fundamental; it is one; there is no difference, no variation in it.  ABU0006


religion is like medicine - if medicine causes illness, it is better to abandon it. God has sent religions for the connection of hearts and the creation of love and fellowship, not for discord and enmity. Fourth, religion must accord with science and reason. If any religious matter does not accord with science and reason, it is superstition.  ABU0062


The religion of God reforms the moral side of the life of mankind. It is the spreader of the virtues of the world of humanity. It is the founder of the divine perfections in the hearts of man. It is nearness unto God. It is the cause of attraction and enkindlement with the Fire of the Love of God. It is conducive to the illumination of human consciousness  ABU2815

All these roads are narrow and will end either to precipices or the wild but the highway of truth is clear and all the smaller roads converge into it. The Baha'i Cause is the sweet spring of water which is never dried up, it is the Great Highway which leads man to the glorious palace of the King of Kings, it is the limitless sea and all the lakes and rivers are limited.  ABU2620



There is no doubt whatever that the religious questions must think firstly of economic questions. Religion is for the establishment of unity and fellowship among the people and not for the establishment of class distinctions and social privileges. Today in Persia, were you to enter a Bahai gathering, you could not distinguish between who is the prince and who is the poor. The poor and the rich associate with each other with the utmost equality.   ABU0034


The greatest foundation for educating humankind in this earthly world is divine teachings and laws. If you want to educate someone in good character, you must labor for years and endure difficulties, and even then what will become of it, to what degree will your education affect them, how long will it last, and what results will it yield? But when that person comes under the shadow of divine religion, they are completely transformed immediately upon believing  ABU1208

