the people of the world are in need of eternal life, and eternal life depends on the manifestation of the Kingdom, and the manifestation of the Kingdom depends on the penetration of the Word of God and the confirmation of the Holy Spirit - that is, it depends on the divine power that brings the dead to life, makes the blind see and the deaf hear, and fulfills the second birth mentioned in the Gospel text: "That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. You must be born again." As for other religions, in the texts of Baha'u'llah and writings of the friends, such as the book of Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, there are explicit mentions of Zoroaster, Buddha, Brahma and Confucius. Similarly in my letters, the original foundations of Zoroaster and Buddha were very compatible but were later altered and changed. It seems you have not seen these tablets and books where this is written. Obtain the published book of Mirza Abu'l-Fadl - it will suffice and satisfy you that the teachings of Baha'u'llah are universal teachings, confirmed by the penetration of the Word of God, the breaths of the Holy Spirit and heavenly power. At most you have seen the published writings of Baha'u'llah - the published tablets are very small compared to the unpublished tablets.  The foundation of divine religions is one - that foundation will become universal through the power of Baha'u'llah. In the East, various teachings were previously spread that appeared universal, but as they were not confirmed by divine power, their flame was quickly extinguished. But the teachings of Baha'u'llah penetrated to such a degree that twenty thousand souls were martyred, yet day by day their power increased. As for place, it has no significance whatsoever - Christ appeared in Palestine but His teachings spread to all the world. Through divine power He gathered different nations under one word. Spatial limitations had absolutely no effect. The Holy Spirit encompasses all perfections - it is the first teacher.  AB00801

Proclaim unto My servants: The ocean of bounty hath appeared, and the sun of knowledge hath dawned resplendent! The Divine religion, which is the very cause of unity among the peoples of the world -- make ye not this the source of dissension. O noble ones! Were mankind to become apprised of that which hath been revealed, all would direct their gaze toward the Most Exalted Horizon, and would behold themselves liberated and freed from all save Him.  BH00323

His third teaching is that religion is a mighty stronghold, but that it must engender love, not malevolence and hate. Should it lead to malice, spite, and hate, it is of no value at all. For religion is a remedy, and if the remedy bring on disease, then put it aside.   AB00197

It is the source of the illumination of the human world and the cause of unity and harmony among all nations. It is the foundation of universal peace and an edifice for conciliation and well-being in this world. When this Cause is fully established, it will completely remove every trace of discord and enmity, will gather all the kindreds of this earth under the shadow of one tent and make them to live in unity. It will cause the East to befriend the West, the North to fraternize with the South, and friend and foe to associate with each other, the two hemispheres to be joined, and all countries and nations to become unified.  AB10966

Religion is for the establishment of unity and fellowship among the people and not for the establishment of class distinctions and social privileges. Today in Persia, were you to enter a Bahai gathering, you could not distinguish between who is the prince and who is the poor. The poor and the rich associate with each other with the utmost equality.   ABU0034

Man must spiritually perceive that religion has been intended by God to be the means of grace, the source of life and cause of agreement. If it becomes the cause of discord, enmity and hatred, it is better that man should be without it. For in its teachings we seek the spirit of charity and love to bind the hearts of men together. If, on the contrary, we find it alienates and embitters human hearts, we are justified in casting it aside.  ABU0150

"Religion is the Cause of fellowship, not strangeness, the motif of ideal communication and not separation, the basis of complete union and not ill-feeling, the foundation of the solidarity of human race and not backbiting."   ABU0237

His Holiness Baha'u'llah hath said that if Religion and Faith become the cause of difference, enmity and hatred, undoubtedly its non-existence is better than its existence. Consider how much emphasis He hath placed upon love, harmony and affection.  AB07818

Consider how the Christian religion served as a religious collective center - what communities it formed! The religion of Islam - how many different nations did His Holiness the Prophet unite! The unity of religion eliminated all these differences.  ABU1124


The third teaching of Baha'u'llah was that religion must be the cause of fellowship and love; if religion becomes the cause of enmity, irreligion is better. For religion is a remedy; if the remedy causes illness, it is better to have no remedy. God has sent the Prophets to establish love; Christ came to establish fellowship, not to establish war.   ABU1080

according to the explicit text of God, to be found in all the heavenly books, religion must needs be the bond of amity and love among men. If religion should prove to be the cause of alienation, then it is not divine religion, but an imitation that man has created, because divine religion, being a bond to unite human hearts, creates fellowship, love and life. Anything contrary thereto is not religion but man made superstition.... true religion is the cause of amity, love and life. If religion should cause the reverse then irreligion would be better. If a remedy should cause disease it would be better to discard it, for a remedy should be productive of health. ABU0219

Religion has to be a cause of harmony for mankind. When religion breeds enmity and hate, it is preferable that religion does not exists.  ABU0477

For the religion of God today is love and kindness  AB09893

Make not the religion of God a cause of variance among you. Verily of a truth, it was revealed for the unifying of the whole world.  BH11456

Religion must be the cause of fellowship and love - if it is not, it has no result  AB01419

The religion of God is for love and unity; make it not the cause of enmity or dissension.  BH00003

I have no creed to preach. I have no doctrine to propound. My word is the word of love...   ABU3423

The religion of God and His divine law are for the purposes of creating love and unity. Make them not the cause of discord.  ABU1754

third is that religion must be the cause of love and fellowship - if it is not the cause of love and fellowship it has no purpose  AB07457

Third is that the reality of religion must be the cause of fellowship, love, connection and unity between people, otherwise irreligion is better   AB01118

Fifth, religion should be the bond of love and unity amongst men. If religion be not the cause of love, it is better to do without, it is better to be irreligious.   ABU0382

To live in peace, love, union, and agreement, and overlook the faults and defects of others and to see only their good actions and not their bad ones. These are things that will lead to perfect success and thorough happiness.   ABU0050

"The fourth principle is that religion must be the cause of unity, it must connect hearts to one another. Christ and all the other divine messengers came to create unity and love. Therefore, if religion becomes the cause of differences, its nonexistence is preferable."  ABU0521


Among all these, what truly serves as the unifying force of human society is religion. It unites different religions, unifies different nations, brings together different races, unites different languages, and unifies different homelands. It blends individuals together, melts them down and remolds them anew. For instance, observe how the Christian religion was a divine unifying force, what unity it created. The religion of Muhammad, Islam, how many different nations it united. The unity of religion eliminated all these differences.   ABU0987

And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religion must be the cause of fellowship and love. If it becomes the cause of estrangement then it is not needed, for religion is like a remedy; if it aggravates the disease then it becomes unnecessary. And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that religion must be in conformity with science and reason, so that it may influence the hearts of men. The foundation must be solid and must not consist of imitations.  AB00016

He sets forth a new principle for this day in the announcement that religion must be the cause of unity, harmony and agreement among mankind. If it is the cause of discord and hostility, if it leads to separation and creates conflict, the absence of religion would be preferable in the world.   ABU0130

Act according to the teachings and counsels of the Blessed Beauty and become the cause of illumination of the human world, so that the light of truth and the radiance of love may enlighten all hearts and humanity may gain wisdom and become like loving brothers with each other and mix like milk and honey.  AB00406

Religion should unite all hearts and cause wars and disputes to vanish from the face of the earth, give birth to spirituality, and bring life and light to each heart. If religion becomes a cause of dislike, hatred and division, it were better to be without it, and to withdraw from such a religion would be a truly religious act.  ABU0091

Thirdly: Baha'u'llah taught, that Religion is the chief foundation of Love and Unity and the cause of Oneness. If a religion become the cause of hatred and disharmony, it would be better that it should not exist. To be without such a religion is better than to be with it.  ABU0257

All the divine manifestations have appeared for the purpose of creating love and unity. All the heavenly books have descended for love's sake. All the divine teachings have been for the purpose of effecting love and unity. But we have forgotten this reality.  ABU0013

Fourth, that religion must be conducive to love and unity among mankind; for if it be the cause of enmity and strife, the absence of religion is preferable. When Moses appeared, the tribes of Israel were in a state of disunion as captives of the Pharaohs. Moses gathered them together, and the divine law established fellowship among them. They became as one people, united, consolidated, after which they were rescued from bondage. They passed into the promised land, advanced in all degrees, developed sciences and arts, progressed in material affairs, increased in divine or spiritual civilization until their nation rose to its zenith in the sovereignty of Solomon. It is evident, therefore, that religion is the cause of unity, fellowship and progress among mankind.   ABU0178

Religion must ever become the cause of amity and love, otherwise irreligion is better   ABU3382

If religion becomes the cause of discord, its absence is better, for naturally conflict and dissension exist in all; they need no other cause.  ABU1754

religion should teach man to love his fellow man and to associate and co-operate with one another.   ABU2272

The purpose for which God, exalted and glorified be He, established religion was the unity and concord of all the world's peoples.  BH00499

Baha'u'llah says if religion does not become the cause of unity, its nonexistence is better than its existence. Religion must be the cause of love.  ABU0633

The divine religion has ever been for unity, concord, fellowship and love, yet ignorant servants have made it the cause and reason for hatred.  BH01895

The quintessence of religion is the knowledge of God and the love of mankind. There are many people who are deprived of these spiritual gifts.  ABU0496

The religion of God and His prescribed Law have ever been the cause of love and unity, yet through misunderstanding they have become the source of enmity and discord.   BH01084

