But this religion has no set form of public worship.  ABU2604

Banish these worthless rituals and envelop yourselves with the warm rays of Universal Ideals.   ABU2352

The religion of God does not consist of prayers, fasting and genuflections and going to Mosque.   ABU1176

Is the government of God so child-like as to forgive all my past sins with the repetition of a mere formula? Is his system of dispensing justice so loose?  ABU1292

Now is the time for reflection and awakening. Observe how they cling to the branch while remaining heedless of the root. Thus it has ever been and ever shall be.   BH02631

The rules and principles of spiritual exercises that existed before have been entirely abrogated. This is the truth, and after truth there is nothing but manifest error.   AB02817

We are a new creation and must set aside old customs. In this Cause, kissing hands, kissing feet, and prostration are forbidden.  ABU2223

But in the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah this symbol is no longer required, for its reality, which is to be baptized with the spirit and the love of God, has been established and realized.  AB00674

As soon as the adherents of a religion give more importance to the form than the spirit - they fall into futile wrangling and disputes. They forget the kernel but idolize the empty shell.   ABU1315

The weight of their immemorial customs has fallen on their necks like the rusty chains of ages, and while the corroding marks are imprinted on their emaciated bodies, they hug the chains more closely.  ABU2359

One time I was invited in this very house to witness the baptism of a baby who was very young. They had put olive oil in the water and when they put the child into it, it shrieked and struggled, swallowing some of the oil and water, after which it, together with the shock to the nervous system, caused the child to be very ill, and it died.  ABU1107

I said, Is it better if one reads one of David's prayers with complete supplication and entreaty, or to keep reading many prayers quickly? He said, Of course reading more is better. I said, Now I will give you an example. I said, If a poor person goes before a king and most respectfully and briefly presents his petition, is this better, or if he keeps saying 'give, give, give, give'? Surely the king would say 'Strike this impudent so-and-so and throw him out!'  ABU0910

