
It is incumbent upon the kings and the spiritual leaders of the world to lay fast hold on religion, inasmuch as through it the fear of God is instilled in all else but Him.  BH00005

Punishment and recompense are the cause of world order.  ABU3284

Aforetime this most exalted Word descended from the Supreme Pen: The tabernacle of world order is upheld by two pillars - reward and punishment. BH00542

Praise be to God that the Baha'is are successful in demonstrating qualities and conduct that are admired by all peoples and are the cause of proclaiming the oneness of humanity and promoting universal peace. Today this is the greatest foundation of true civilization and the cause of tranquility in the world of creation. In this great century this foundation is very firm and solid, but it needs divine power to promote it. Since the friends of God are confirmed by heavenly power, I hope they will illuminate the lamp of human unity in all the gatherings of the world and the melody of universal peace will reach both East and West. Religion will become the cause of fellowship between people, and justice and fairness will raise its banner at the pole of the world. Religion will accord with science and promote peace and harmony. No ignorant prejudices will remain and the light of truth will be diffused. AB04352


In Europe and America many colleges and universities were founded; many plays, as comedies, have been written for the purpose of improving morality, and the greatest importance and moment has been given to civilization for the express purpose of reforming morals. They have been of the opinion that the greatest means for the development of humanity is reformation of morals; whereas, the most potent factor for the reformation of morals is religion  ABU1270

In the conduct of life, man is actuated by two main motives: The Hope for Reward and The Fear of Punishment. This hope and this fear must consequently be greatly taken into account by those in authority who have important posts under Government. Their business in life is to consult together for the framing of laws, and to provide for their just administration. The tent of the order of the world is raised and established on the two pillars of Reward and Retribution.  ABU0253

Religion is an attitude toward God which reflects itself in our attitude towards men.  ABU3608

Man must possess the religion of God which is the source of all valour, moral and intellectual   ABU3079

every era hath a spirit; the spirit of this illumined era lieth in the teachings of Baha'u'llah. For these lay the foundation of the oneness of the world of humanity and promulgate universal brotherhood. They are founded upon the unity of science and religion and upon investigation of truth. They uphold the principle that religion must be the cause of amity, union and harmony among men. They establish the equality of both sexes and propound economic principles which are for the happiness of individuals. They diffuse universal education, that every soul may as much as possible have a share of knowledge. They abrogate and nullify religious, racial, political, patriotic and economic prejudices and the like. Those teachings that are scattered throughout the Epistles and Tablets are the cause of the illumination and the life of the world of humanity. AB02574

A prophet brings a spiritual civilization, and after that is established, material progress follows.   ABU3035

Holy Manifestations of God establish eternal institutions for humanity in all worlds, even in this dusty realm  ABU1670

These heavenly Messengers are the real Shepherds of humanity, for whenever They appear in the world They unite the scattered sheep.  ABU0006

These matters are to show that civilization cannot be attained except through faith and certitude. Man cannot attain to justice, fairness, compassion, kindness, patience and forgiveness except through faith.  ABU2139


How did they know that truthfulness is good? Through education and training, otherwise nature's requirement is falsehood... humans have an internal restraining force, but that is obtained through education and religion  ABU2246

The leaders of religions must be the means of binding the hearts together, establishing good-fellowship between the members of the human family, creating a desire for universal Peace and emphasizing more the essential unity of mankind.   ABU2312

Religious teachings are essential for the proper development of the mind and the spirit. If religious instruction is not given to the children they will grow heedless and forget moral susceptibilities. They will laugh at all moral obligations.  ABU2583

Every religion is the greatest divine effulgence, the cause of life amongst men, the cause of the honor of humanity, and is productive of life everlasting amongst humankind. Religion is not for enmity or hatred. It is not for tyranny or injustice.   ABU0225

"religion is a manifest light and an impregnable fortress for the protection and tranquility of the peoples of the world. Should the lamp of religion be obscured, chaos and confusion will ensue, and the lights of justice and equity and the sun of peace and security will cease to shine."   AB00130

The vitality of men's belief in God is dying out in every land... For this matter preserves the servants and adorns the world with reformation. Had the nations abroad held fast to this, assuredly these affairs which have caused terror in the world and the perturbation of peoples' hearts would not have occurred or appeared.  BH03974

the most potent factor for the reformation of morals is religion, for man anticipates reward from God for his good morals, is hopeful of life eternal and fears Divine retribution. Hence he is perforce striving for the acquisition of good morals, and when his attention is directed to the Kingdom of God he will surely improve in morals.  ABU1270

One concerns the world of morality and the ethical training of human nature. It is directed to the advancement of the world of humanity in general; it reveals and inculcates the knowledge of God and makes possible the discovery of the verities of life. This is ideal and spiritual teaching, the essential quality of divine religion, and not subject to change or transformation.  ABU0015

Abdu'l-Baha replied that superstitions were of two kinds; those that were harmful and dangerous, and those that were harmless and produced certain good effects. For example, there were some poor people who believed that misfortunes and punishments were caused by a Great Angel with his sword in his hand, who struck down those who stole, and committed murder and crimes. They thought the flashes of lightning were the weapons of this angel, and that if they did wrong they would be struck by lightning. This belief caused them to refrain from evil actions.  ABU2117

divine power moderates character. A certain person from the Caucasus was a brigand who had killed many people. When he became a Baha'i, he became so meek that when someone shot at him with a revolver, he did not retaliate. Such a ferocious person became such a gentle soul. Therefore, character must be moderated so that souls may become aware, and this is not possible except through divine power.  ABU0062

Religion is, verily, the chief instrument for the establishment of order in the world, and of tranquillity amongst its peoples. The weakening of the pillars of religion hath strengthened the foolish, and emboldened them, and made them more arrogant. Verily I say: The greater the decline of religion, the more grievous the waywardness of the ungodly. This cannot but lead in the end to chaos and confusion.  BH00005

The holy duty of the religious leaders is naught but to share of the knowledge of the waters of certitude, lead the people to the best conduct, save them from the valley of error, show them the highway of guidance, purify their characters through exhortations and counsels, save the sons of man from the wrath of God, strengthen their hopes for the divine favours, and urge them to acquire virtues and merits.   AB00442

A Greek philosopher living in the days of the youth of Christianity, being full of the Christian element, though not a professing Christian, wrote thus: 'It is my belief that religion is the very foundation of true civilization'. For, unless the moral character of a nation is educated, as well as its brain and its talents, civilization has no sure basis. As religion inculcates morality, it is therefore the truest philosophy, and on it is built the only lasting civilization.  ABU0625

The foundation of praiseworthy moralities is faith. The greater the faith of man the more illumed his life. Faith is a miracle. It has a wonder working power. Its spiritual influence refines the character suffers man to become humble and meek, places in his heart the fear of God, prompts him to devote his time to humanitarian deeds, spiritualizes his nature, exalts his ideals and enkindles his lamp. The greater the faith of man the more numerous will be his philanthropic actions. Faith is like unto the trees, deeds are like unto the fruits. Faith is like unto the lamp, deeds are like unto the light. Faith is like unto a beautiful body, deeds are like unto the spirit.   ABU1084

it is impossible for a human being to turn aside from his own selfish advantages and sacrifice his own good for the good of the community except through true religious faith. For self-love is kneaded into the very clay of man, and it is not possible that, without any hope of a substantial reward, he should neglect his own present material good. That individual, however, who puts his faith in God and believes in the words of God -- because he is promised and certain of a plentiful reward in the next life, and because worldly benefits as compared to the abiding joy and glory of future planes of existence are nothing to him -- will for the sake of God abandon his own peace and profit and will freely consecrate his heart and soul to the common good. "A man, too, there is who selleth his very self out of desire to please God."  There are some who imagine that an innate sense of human dignity will prevent man from committing evil actions and insure his spiritual and material perfection. That is, that an individual who is characterized with natural intelligence, high resolve, and a driving zeal, will, without any consideration for the severe punishments consequent on evil acts, or for the great rewards of righteousness, instinctively refrain from inflicting harm on his fellow men and will hunger and thirst to do good. And yet, if we ponder the lessons of history it will become evident that this very sense of honor and dignity is itself one of the bounties deriving from the instructions of the Prophets of God. We also observe in infants the signs of aggression and lawlessness, and that if a child is deprived of a teacher's instructions his undesirable qualities increase from one moment to the next. It is therefore clear that the emergence of this natural sense of human dignity and honor is the result of education. Secondly, even if we grant for the sake of the argument that instinctive intelligence and an innate moral quality would prevent wrongdoing, it is obvious that individuals so characterized are as rare as the philosopher's stone. An assumption of this sort cannot be validated by mere words, it must be supported by the facts. Let us see what power in creation impels the masses toward righteous aims and deeds! Aside from this, if that rare individual who does exemplify such a faculty should also become an embodiment of the fear of God, it is certain that his strivings toward righteousness would be strongly reinforced.  Universal benefits derive from the grace of the Divine religions, for they lead their true followers to sincerity of intent, to high purpose, to purity and spotless honor, to surpassing kindness and compassion, to the keeping of their covenants when they have covenanted, to concern for the rights of others, to liberality, to justice in every aspect of life, to humanity and philanthropy, to valor and to unflagging efforts in the service of mankind. It is religion, to sum up, which produces all human virtues, and it is these virtues which are the bright candles of civilization.  AB00004


