although a man may progress in science and philosophy, if he does not take advantage of the power of the spirit, he is incomplete   ABU1653

Had it not been for the foundation laid by the prophets of God, Europe would never have attained to the degree of material civilization which it now boasts, and but for the planting of that seed, this blessed harvest would never have been yielded  ABU3688

The religion of God is the promoter of truth, the establisher of science and learning, the supporter of knowledge, the civilizer of the human race, the discoverer of the secrets of existence, and the enlightener of the horizons of the world. How then could it oppose knowledge? God forbid! On the contrary, in the sight of God knowledge is the greatest human virtue and the noblest human perfection.   AB00256

Religion is the promoter of learning and the founder of sciences and the expounder of mysteries and the elucidator of realities. Consider how the Arab peoples were in the utmost ignorance, nay, blind and deaf, and like unto the beasts, wandering in the Arabian desert in their winter and summer migrations, distinguished by the most abhorrent deeds and the most repugnant habits. When the Beauty of Muhammad dawned from the horizon of Yathrib and Bat'ha, the religion of God manifested such power and might that in a brief span these ignorant peoples became the foremost among the learned in all sciences and arts, and perfected the deficiencies in the sciences and arts of the philosophers.   AB00076




today the greatest justification for the intervention of powerful civilized nations in other countries is precisely this: that to witness a country and nation in a state of chaos and anarchy despite civilization and capability, and to remain at peace, is far from justice and outside the duty of civilized and educated people. Therefore the hand of politics must be extended and one must charge forth in the arena of power and might. Despite this, when the name of the religion of the Chief of Messengers is mentioned, they speak with utmost prejudice and out of extreme bias express such expectation and regret, saying: "If only such a Messenger had not been raised up among the Arab tribes, and had not cut short the aggressive hand of the parties of ignorance and savagery, had not laid the foundation of happiness, and through the blessing of His guidance and sufficiency the signs of civilization had not reached from Asia to the bounds of Europe!" ABU1441


During the Middle Ages, while Europe had sunk to the lowest depths of barbarity, the Arabs excelled all other nations of the earth in sciences and crafts, mathematics, civilization, governance, and other arts.  AB00035

Through the appearance of Mohammad and his disciples, the Arabian desert became the mother of all the countries, the Kaaba for millions of souls and the object of veneration by all mankind.  ABU1595


The Arabs then excelled all the peoples of the world in science and the arts, in industry and invention, in philosophy, government and moral character. And truly, the rise of this brutish and despicable element, in such a short interval, to the supreme heights of human perfection, is the greatest demonstration of the rightfulness of the Lord Muhammad's Prophethood.  AB00004

Furthermore, they could never have civilized the desert-dwelling wild ones of Arabia so thoroughly as to empower them to conquer great cities and transform the hearts of differing peoples, to the extent that that once brutal people had become enabled to so quickly establish the schools of Andalusia -- schools which the denizens of Europe attended to learn the hallmarks of civilization, and returned to the West to promote the arts and sciences they had studied.  ABU3688

Baghdad became the center of learning and Bukhara the source of the arts, and knowledge raised such a standard in Andalusia that all the learned ones of Europe came to the schools of Cordova and Cordoba to acquire the light of knowledge from the lamp of Islamic schools. Among them was a youth from Europe who studied sciences and arts under the Islamic divines in the schools of Cordoba, and when he returned to Europe, he achieved such prominence that in a short time he was elected Pope and ruled over all the regions of Europe.   AB00076

