
It is clear and evident that the one true God -- glorified be His mention! -- is sanctified above the world and all that is therein. By "rendering assistance unto God", then, it is not meant that any soul should fight or contend with another. That Sovereign Lord Who doeth whatsoever He pleaseth hath entrusted the kingdom of creation, its lands and its seas, into the hands of the kings, for they are, each according to his degree, the manifestations of His divine power. Should they enter beneath the shadow of the True One, they will be accounted of God, and if not, thy Lord, verily, knoweth and observeth all things. That which God -- glorified be His Name! -- hath desired for Himself is the hearts of His servants, which are the treasuries of His love and remembrance and the repositories of His knowledge and wisdom. It hath ever been the wish of the Eternal King to cleanse the hearts of His servants from the things of the world and all that pertaineth thereunto, that they may be made worthy recipients of the effulgent splendours of Him Who is the King of all names and attributes. Wherefore must no stranger be allowed in the city of the heart, that the incomparable Friend may enter His abode. By this is meant the effulgence of His names and attributes, and not His exalted Essence, inasmuch as that peerless King hath ever been, and shall eternally remain, sanctified above ascent and descent. It followeth, therefore, that rendering assistance unto God, in this day, doth not and shall never consist in contending or disputing with any soul; nay rather, what is preferable in the sight of God is that the cities of men's hearts, which are ruled by the hosts of self and passion, should be subdued by the sword of utterance, of wisdom and of understanding. Thus, whoso seeketh to assist God must, before all else, conquer, with the sword of inner meaning and explanation, the city of his own heart and guard it from the remembrance of all save God, and only then set out to subdue the cities of the hearts of others. Such is the true meaning of rendering assistance unto God. Sedition hath never been pleasing unto God, nor were the acts committed in the past by certain foolish ones acceptable in His sight. Know ye that to be killed in the path of His good pleasure is better for you than to kill.  BH00038

Arise to aid the Cause of thy Lord   BH06775

render Him assistance through your own selves   BH08927

Soon shall the banners of victory be upraised   BH11423

I beseech Thee to assist me to serve Thy Cause   BH06732

Aid thou the Cause of thy Lord in all conditions   BH06781

whatever has occurred has been in the path of God.  BH05685

God will assist all those who arise to serve Him.   BB00616

those who have aided their Lord, the Most Merciful   BH09053

O Lord! Aid Thy loved ones to remember and praise Thee  BH10356

to make me a helper of Thy Faith, steadfast in Thy service   BH08414

that they may arise to help Thy Cause amongst Thy servants   BH05772

arise to aid the Wronged One and be not of them that hesitate.   BH04063

I beseech Thee to assist me to aid Thy Cause among Thy creatures   BH09950

Soon shall the sincere ones find the signs of their Lord's victory   BH06318

Aid thou His Cause with wisdom - He will aid thee through the truth.   BH05811

Thy chosen ones who have arisen to aid Thy Cause amidst Thy creatures   BH09955

to make me one of those who have aided Thy Cause and arose to serve Thee   BH09961

assist those who are around Thee to champion Thy Cause and arise to serve Thee   BH05193

that he may aid Thee in Thy dominion and make mention of Thee amidst Thy creatures  BH08243

Therefore, aid ye God in the True Faith with mighty aid!  BB00004

they who are nigh rushed to the assistance of Thy Cause when the clamor was raised   BH08258

If all nations arise to oppose they will be vanquished, and you will be victorious.   ABU1903

O ye that sit still, arise to aid His Cause, the All-Subduing, the Lord of all worlds!  BH06892

Aid ye yourselves by turning towards the court of your Lord, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH07641

O my Lord! Assist me to aid Thy Cause and to enter the precincts of the glory of Thy oneness.   BH06033

I beseech Thee to make me steadfast in Thy Cause and a herald of Thy Name amongst Thy servants.  BH09028

On such a Day as this, it behooveth you to aid and remember your Creator, O people of guidance!  BH11805

Aid the Cause of your Lord with such steadfastness as will cause spirits and minds to be amazed.  BH05287

Whosoever ariseth to aid our Cause God will render him victorious over ten times ten thousand souls  BH11360

Soon will the unitarians behold the banners of victory from all directions through My Most Great Name.   BH04457

If thou art able, aid Him through utterance; if not, then guard thyself and maintain a goodly vigilance  BH10825

Then aid them, O my God, to assist Thy Cause in Thy realm and to make mention of Thee among Thy creation.  BH10583

Aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, at all times. Verily He is with you, and He hath power over all things.   BH09605

And say: Here assist God through the Great Name, and here through the Noble Name with mighty assistance.   BB00540

that they may aid Thy wronged servant for whom the eyes of those near unto Thee weep in the Abha Kingdom   AB00698

waiting for a soul to charge forth in the arena of the Kingdom so that all may render victory and assistance  AB04261

The victory of the Most Glorious Kingdom arrived, and the lights of confirmation of the Sun of Truth shone forth.  AB01523

Alone and unaided I have, by the power of Thy might, arisen to proclaim Thy Cause, unafraid of the host of my oppressors  BH02462

He spent that which he possessed for the exaltation of Thy Word, the triumph of Thy Cause, and the spread of Thy verses.   BH00727

Through the grace of the Intended One, there is hope that you will be assisted to serve the Cause of the King of existence  AB10938

I beg of Thee by Thy Straight Path and Thy wondrous Message, graciously to aid me to glorify Thy Cause amidst Thy servants.  BH09725

"Say: O people of earth, aid God, your Lord, with the swords of your hearts, with whatsoever power ye possess in the kingdom."  BH05177

that they may arise to help the Wronged One and proclaim that there is no God but He, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting.   BH03536

Today, whosoever desires to render assistance must pass beyond all that he possesses and fix his gaze upon that which is with God.   BH03946

Aid thy Lord amongst His servants. This is what God hath prescribed for everyone who hath believed in Him in this mighty Revelation.   BH09056

"make me among those who have aided Thy Cause through wisdom and utterance and have done what Thou hast commanded them in the Book."   BH03069

make us servants of Thy Cause who rely upon Thy help and protection and who hasten to the field of sacrifice out of longing to meet Thee  AB03605

We implore God to assist His loved ones in that which will today cause the exaltation of His Cause, that their mention may endure forever.   BH06454

Therefore help ye God to triumph in the True Faith with a mighty triumph. Therefore, thou shalt aid God in the True Faith with a mighty aid.  BB00004

I beseech Thee, O Lord of the worlds, to assist Thy loved ones with the wonders of Thy assistance, for they have taken no helper besides Thee  BH07669

Be as a flame of fire to the wicked, or as the wrath of the Almighty against the evil ones - this behooveth thee if thou art of those who act   BH07021

Therefore, help ye God in the True Faith with a mighty help. Therefore, aid ye God in the True Faith with mighty aid! [repeated throughout text]  BB00004

In these days, mention of the Truth and victory for the Truth take precedence over all deeds, and victory has been and shall be through utterance.   BH03915

We bear witness that through thee and thy like were the gates of acceptance opened for the servants and the rains of mercy rained down upon the lands   BH02191

It behooveth you both to arise at all times to make mention of Me and to aid My Cause in such wise that the might of the oppressors shall not deter you.  BH02169

They have arisen to promote Thy Cause and have spoken forth Thy Name before the faces of Thine enemies, despite those who denied Thy proof and Thy signs   BH03384

I testify that you have helped your Lord and were among the helpers... What you do by His command and good-pleasure is true help in the sight of your Lord   BH10741

who have been so carried away by the breezes of Thy love that they have cast behind them all that is on earth in manifesting Thy Cause and exalting Thy Word  BH04729

We have desired to make mention of one who has turned towards My horizon when he heard My call and arose to render Me victorious when he read My mighty Book.  BH11010

We have nurtured thee for My help and have cast upon thee the Word from the tongue of grandeur that thou mayest arise to make mention of Me amongst My servants  BH01962

Aid ye the All-Merciful through goodly words and righteous deeds. Thus have ye been commanded in the Tablets from the presence of One All-Knowing, All-Informed.   BH05339

Arise to serve thy Lord. Say: O people, fear ye God and follow not those who have opposed the Dawning-Place of Revelation when He came with manifest sovereignty.   BH05174

Blessed is the strong one who hath arisen to serve the Cause and the weak one who hath been strengthened through the power of his Lord, the Mighty, the Bountiful.   BH05134

In any case, the Word of God is penetrating, the Cause of God is triumphant, the parties of Satan are vanquished, and the party of God is confirmed and victorious.  AB05093

By God! If a soul should draw but one breath in aid of this wondrous and exalted Cause, it would equal all the acceptable deeds of the dwellers of earth and heaven   BH00885

that I may arise to aid Thy Cause amongst Thy creatures and rend asunder the veils of glory that have prevented the servants from turning toward the horizon of beauty   BH02786

Ye are they who aided God on earth and manifested His all-compelling power to all the worlds. We testify that through you were standards raised by the hands of bounty   BH01287

We beseech God at the end of this epistle to assist thee to help the Wronged One through the standards of wisdom and utterance and the hosts of remembrance and exposition.   BH07130

Soon shall come a day wherein the standards of victory and power shall be raised in the name of thy Lord, the Chosen One, and on that day the sincere shall be in great joy   BH06057

And dost thou see in the heavens any who speak My Name and arise to aid My Cause through wisdom and utterance, forsaking all else out of love for God, the Lord of all worlds?  BH05557

Give the glad tidings of divine favors to Jinab-i-Dhu'l-Faqar Khan that he may become an unsheathed sword in support of the Cause of God and may conquer the regions of hearts  AB12118

We beseech God to make you among those who aided His Cause with the hosts of exposition...The Glory be upon you and upon those who aided the Cause of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH09579

We entreat Thee, O Thou Who art the Cloud of Bounty and the Succorer of the distressed, that Thou wilt aid us to remember Thee, and to make known Thy Cause, and to arise to help Thee.  BH05079

Thou art He Who hath spent His spirit in the path of God and stood up alone between the heavens and the earth. My soul be a sacrifice for thy faithfulness, O Beloved of them that know!   BH05372

Verily, We behold you from Our realm of glory, and shall aid whosoever will arise for the triumph of Our Cause with the hosts of the Concourse on high and a company of Our favored angels  AB01660

Soon shall the enemies of God and their deeds and utterances become null and void and perish and be lost, while the mention of His loved ones shall be exalted in the assemblage of the world.  BH10224

"...in the victory of your Lord, the Most Merciful, and the descent of the hosts of your Master, the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, from His most glorious Kingdom and most exalted Dominion!"  AB04927

Say: O My loved ones! Aid your Lord, the Most Merciful, in all creation. By God! All that you see today shall perish, but that which has been sent down to you from the Supreme Pen shall endure.   BH01863

God willing, the world should become perfumed through the fragrance of your turning to God, acceptance and steadfastness. This is what We have counseled the servants with in most of Our Tablets.   BH05977

I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which all names have bowed down, that Thou aid me in that which will cause Thy Cause to be exalted amongst Thy creation and Thy remembrance amongst Thy servants.   BH09502

Your turning to the Ka'bah of Glory and arising to promote His Cause is itself a victory, and God, exalted be His glory, hath accepted it and recorded you among the helpers in the Preserved Tablet.  BH04995

It behooveth every soul to assist his Lord through this Most Great Name. Whoso assisteth Him in His land, He will assuredly assist him in worlds which none knoweth save the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH04219

God will soon raise up His Cause in truth and will waft the breezes of glory upon the oppressed, and the Bird of Unity will sing in the midst of heaven that this is the Day wherein God will assist His Cause.   BH03675

I beseech Thee, O Bestower of bounties and Lord of all peoples, to ordain for me through the Pen of Thy will that which shall render me a helper of Thy Cause and one who speaks Thy praise amidst the factions.   BH04478

You seek a new victory and triumph and desire increased aid and bounty. It is as was written. God willing, victory will lead to victory in the Kingdom and you will be triumphant in attaining your hopes and desires.  AB08729

God willing, you will be assisted and confirmed at all times in the remembrance of Truth and the victory of the Cause of Truth through wisdom and utterance and through what He loves and is pleased with in all matters.  BH11833

assist the Cause with an impregnable steadfastness... God willing, you must, through the breaths of glory from the All-Merciful and the holy favors of the Eternal, arise at all times with utmost effort to assist the Cause   BH08684

I beseech Thee, O my God, to manifest for the victory of this Revelation one who is worthy of Thy Name and Thy sovereignty, that he may remember Thee amongst Thy creation and raise the standards of Thy triumph in Thy realm.  BH05239

By My life, he who hath known Me hath, from time immemorial, helped God, and this is the true meaning of help, as attested by the Tongue of Grandeur and confirmed by the realities of all things. Yet most men remain behind a mighty veil.   BH01371

Give defeat to the presumptuous claimants so that the religion of God may adorn the world and shine forth to the universe. May the lovers of the Abha Beauty become impassioned and bring the world of existence to resurrection and gathering.  AB02271

The ultimate victory belongs to the righteous - this is a definitive glad-tiding. "Verily Our hosts shall be triumphant" is the promise of a great bounty. Victory comes through divine qualities, not through harshness, severity and ferocity.   AB02361

This servant beseecheth God, his Lord and your Lord, to assist those who strive among our monotheistic brethren, to aid them with the hosts of the unseen and the seen, to grant them victory through His might and His power and His sovereignty   BH00989

I swear by the Sun of Truth, which is sanctified above the comprehension of the peoples of the world, that whosoever ariseth to render assistance, even to the extent of a needle's eye, is accounted before God among those who are nigh and the sincere ones.  BH02729

O Lord, O Lord! Assist him with a heavenly power and a divine might, that he may resist the onslaught of the enemies and the attacks of the hateful ones, and triumph over the oppressors, and that Thy conquering victory may be made manifest over all things.  AB02027

I implore Thee, O my Lord, by Thy surpassing majesty and Thine Ancient Name, to enable Thy loved ones to assist Thee. Direct, then, continually their faces towards Thy face, and write down for them what will cause all hearts to exult and all eyes to be gladdened.   BH07682

Be thou assured of thy Lord's favor, for He recordeth for whomsoever He willeth the reward of one who, with His leave, hath turned to Him, traversed land and sea in His love, presented himself at the door, and hearkened to the call of the Lord of the Final Return.  BH06361

It behooveth today whosoever hath turned unto God to arise to serve the Cause with such strength that neither all the hosts of the earth nor the might of the idolaters can frustrate him. If thou findest weakness in thyself, seek strength through My Name, the All-Powerful.  BH08353

the chains and fetters have been removed from the necks of the wanderers and the shackles and manacles have been placed upon the necks of the hostile ones. The oppressors have been caught in failure, and the tyrants, defeated, condemned and rejected, have become prisoners   AB03508

A letter from your honor arrived before this servant indicating excessive anxiety and distress. Nothing was observed therein except the mention that two persons in that land had read a writing which indicated that people should go to Baghdad to render assistance to the Truth.   BH01622

Glory and praise and remembrance and honor be upon...those handmaidens who turned to God when the Cause was manifested and the Call was raised, and who attained unto that which the radiant leaf attained, she who aided the Cause of God before the face of the Lord upon the white spot.   BH08821

The idolators desired to extinguish the fire of God and put out His light. Say: Perdition betide you, O company of the losers! Did Pharaoh attain what he desired, or did Nimrod profit from what he wrought? Nay, by the Self of God Who dominateth all who are in the heavens and on earth!   BH05225

then aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, the Most Compassionate, though He is in truth independent of the help of all in the heavens and earth, if ye be of them that are endued with insight. He commandeth His servants to render aid that they may thereby detach themselves from all else but Him  BH02332

to ordain for me that which shall profit me in all the worlds of Thy worlds, and inspire me with that which shall kindle the hearts of Thy servants, and preserve me through the sovereignty of Thy power that I may arise to aid Thy Cause in Thy realm and be a servant of Thy Command in Thy lands.   BH05466

O helpers of victory! By God, this is His Day, were ye of them that know. O ye who are endowed with power! This is the Day whereon it behoveth you to arise with your might to aid the Cause of your Lord, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. Seize ye these days and then aid your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH06534

Then you will observe how this host of the armies of life and this contingent of the forces of salvation will arrange such a spiritual battle line that the ranks and thousands of the peoples and tribes of the world will be broken one by one, and "verily Our hosts shall be victorious" will become manifest.  AB01622

I beseech Thee by the treasuries of Thy knowledge and the repositories of Thy wisdom, and by Thy Most Great Command and Thy Most Ancient Name, to assist me in all conditions to serve Thee and to serve Thy loved ones, and to ordain for me that which befitteth Thy glory and Thy majesty, Thy Cause and Thy sovereignty.   BH04120

Say: O God, my Beloved of the worlds and the Desire of them that have recognized Thee! I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst subdue the world to make me of them who have aided Thy Cause and stood firm in Thy love in such wise that neither the might of kings nor the conditions of the lowly hindered them.  BH02862

I beseech Thee by Thy most great signs and by the breezes of Thy bounty at the dawning of the lights of the Sun of Thy Manifestation in the kingdom of creation, to assist Thy loved ones in serving Thy Cause in such wise that neither the opposition of the servants nor the objections of any in the land shall hinder them   BH06573

For ultimately the radiance of the Kingdom will overwhelm the darkness of the world of being, and the holy, exalted character of your aims will become unmistakably apparent. Nothing shall remain concealed: the olive oil, though stored within the deepest vault, shall one day burn in brightness from the lamp atop the beacon.  AB02506

War is good when it has no defeat. That is the war of the loved ones of God. Whether they sit on the throne of sovereignty, they are victorious, and if they are raised upon the gallows, they are victorious. In every case they are victorious. You have won whether it comes up even or odd. In every case they are triumphant and victorious.   ABU2444

Say: God shall soon raise up a people possessed of mighty strength, and through them will He aid the Youth as He aided Him the first time. These shall not be hindered by veils nor withheld by allusions, for this is not difficult for God. Their hearts are as blocks of iron, such that nothing in the heavens or earth shall cause them fear.   BH01392

O servants of the All-Merciful! Aid your Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted, in this Revelation which hath appeared in His Most Glorious Name, and turn not your attention to whatsoever hath been created between earth and heaven. This is better for you, did ye but know. He desireth naught for you save to draw you nigh unto a sublime station of glory.   BH00696

"Aid ye God through your hearts and deeds, that God may aid you in an atmosphere wherein the breaths of the Spirit have been wafted. Know ye that God's victory is your own victory over self, whereby ye become distinguished from all else in the realm through that which proceedeth from you - this being a victory which hath been set forth in detail in the Tablet."   BH01777

The purpose of the assistance mentioned in all the Tablets hath been and still is well known to the loved ones of God... to assist God's Cause in this day doth not and shall never mean to engage in opposition and contention or conflict with any soul. Rather, what is preferable is that the cities of men's hearts should be conquered through the sword of wisdom and of utterance, and not through the sword of iron.  BH01931

This is Your servant who has clung to the hem of Your favors and been attracted by Your holy fragrances and been ignited by the fire kindled in the Tree of Your oneness and has arisen with all his strength to exalt Your Word and spread Your sweet savors and cause Your lights to shine forth and Your mysteries to be revealed and to magnify Your signs and adorn Your banners and proclaim Your virtues and make universal Your mercies.   AB01595

Victory is of two kinds: one pertains to the physical world and the other to the spiritual realm. Although both are desired and beloved, and both are accepted and yearned for, yet physical victories have no abundant results or praiseworthy effects - they are but a moment, expressed as a dewdrop. But spiritual, divine victory is a sun whose rays are eternal, whose heat is everlasting, whose zenith is pre-existent and whose waves are immortal.  AB03486

If, then, you desire to help your Lord, the All-Merciful, emerge from the veils of self and passion, then remind the people of what the Most Glorious Beauty has taught you, that your words may influence every pure-hearted hearer. Know that victory consists in preserving yourselves from that which you have been forbidden, your eyes from gazing upon aught but God, your hearts from remembering aught but Him, your faces from turning to anything besides Him, your hands from possessing the property of others, and your feet from walking in any path save His good-pleasure.   BH01908
