A question sent by a Baha'i: "What is the meaning of Christ's eating the fish and honey after his resurrection?"  'Abdu'l-Baha answered: "All these things - the fish, the honeycomb etc, are symbols and were meant to be understood spiritually, just as the Resurrection itself was a spiritual resurrection. But because the people who received these teachings from the first teachers were ignorant, they understood them literally." ABU3231

After the Lord Christ suffered, the disciples wept, and gave way to their grief. They thought that their hopes were shattered, and that the Cause was utterly lost, till Mary Magdalene came to them and strengthened them saying: 'Do you mourn the body of Our Lord or His Spirit? If you mourn His Spirit, you are mistaken, for Jesus lives! His Spirit will never leave us!' Thus through her wisdom and encouragement the Cause of Christ was upheld for all the days to come. Her intuition enabled her to grasp the spiritual fact. ABU2288

I mean the heaven from which Christ descended and to which he ascended--the heaven of divine Will, the heaven of spirituality.   ABU3594

certain holy personages dwelling among us may not be appreciated during their lifetime, but after their departure from this life their reality will become manifest. Such a one was Mary Magdalene. The greatness of her station was not known during her lifetime, but after nineteen hundred years God has made it clear that this woman was the most steadfast of all the followers of His Holiness Christ. After the crucifixion his disciples were greatly agitated, even Peter who, although he had denied His Holiness Christ to be, was considered the chief of the apostles, but this marvelous woman caused them to become firm and steadfast. Through the power of her faith they were able to see that though the body of Christ had been crucified yet his spirit or reality had not suffered but was with them still; that his body was like a torn and discarded garment, but that his spirit was eternal and indestructible. Thus the disciples became reorganized through her exhortations and exhibition of firmness. Now, after this long period, the station of Mary Magdalene has been revealed. Hence we must have faith that at the proper time every reality will likewise become revealed. ABU1908

whoso looketh for Christ in His physical body hath looked in vain, and will be shut away from Him as by a veil. But whoso yearneth to find Him in the spirit will grow from day to day in joy and desire and burning love, in closeness to Him, and in beholding Him clear and plain. In this new and wondrous day, it behoveth thee to seek after the spirit of Christ. Verily the heaven into which the Messiah rose up was not this unending sky, rather was His heaven the Kingdom of His beneficent Lord. Even as He Himself hath said, 'I came down from heaven,' and again, 'The Son of Man is in heaven.' Hence it is clear that His heaven is beyond all directional points; it encircleth all existence, and is raised up for those who worship God. Beg and implore thy Lord to lift thee up into that heaven, and give thee to eat of its food, in this age of majesty and might. Know thou that the people, even unto this day, have failed to unravel the hidden secrets of the Book. They imagine that Christ was excluded from His heaven in the days when He walked the earth, that He fell from the heights of His sublimity, and afterwards mounted to those upper reaches of the sky, to the heaven which doth not exist at all, for it is but space. And they are waiting for Him to come down from there again, riding upon a cloud, and they imagine that there are clouds in that infinite space and that He will ride thereon and by that means He will descend. Whereas the truth is that a cloud is but vapour that riseth out of the earth, and it doth not come down from heaven. Rather, the cloud referred to in the Gospel is the human body, so called because the body is as a veil to man, which, even as a cloud, preventeth him from beholding the Sun of Truth that shineth from the horizon of Christ.  AB01866

In the Gospel record, when Jesus Christ was crucified and ascended, Mary Magdalen and the other disciples had fallen into such a state of excitement and agitation that during three days the Cause of God was annihilated for them. After three days, their agitation having abated they realized that the cause of Jesus Christ and His teaching was everlasting in the world. The disciples would not at first write to the other believers openly that Jesus was crucified until Mary Magdalen said to them. What does it matter? His soul is with us.  When Jesus was crucified some said, His religion is annihilated and gone. Mary Magdalene said matter is gone, and flesh, but the soul of the religion is forever.  Thomas was a feeble character who believed the Cause was lost. After a little time he saw that, though Jesus was killed, the Cause of God still continued and then he realized and believed.  After the death of the Blessed Perfection, one day, the chief Muhammadan priest of Akka came to our Lord and said he had seen the door of his room open and the Blessed Perfection came into his room. This was the Truth and Cause of the Blessed Perfection which manifested itself and it's continuous to him in this way.  To those who say that Jesus Christ came back to earth in his earthly body, they should reflect that He was 33 years old at the time of His death. According to the medical science it is established that in 33 years a man's body has been changed at least three times. If it was the body of the third decade of His life which revived what became of the other two bodies? ABU1136

Just as in the time of Christ: the disciples were agitated when they saw the body of Jesus crucified. Then Mary Magdalene came to them and said: 'Why are you agitated?' 'Because,' they replied, 'Jesus has been crucified.' 'Oh,' she said, 'that was the body of Jesus, but the Reality of Jesus is living and eternal. It is not subject to corruption.'  ABU1052

You had asked about the resurrection and ascension of Christ. The meaning of Christ's resurrection and ascension is this: that after His martyrdom and the occurrence of that most great calamity, the Cause and teachings of Christ were forgotten for three days, for all the disciples were disturbed, even Peter, who was the chief of the apostles, was so agitated that he denied Christ three times. On the third day, Mary Magdalene became the cause of their steadfastness and firmness. The Cause of Christ rose again and His teachings were revived, for Mary Magdalene explained to the disciples that what had occurred affected only the body of Christ - nothing had befallen the reality of Christ. Christ was living and enduring, and was ascending to the heaven of reality. By heaven is not meant the physical heaven but the spiritual heaven. As He came from heaven, so did He return to heaven; and yet outwardly He had not come from the visible heaven but was born of Mary. But in reality He had come from the spiritual heaven, as He said: "I came from heaven." Thus it became evident that the reality of Christ came from the divine heaven, not from the physical heaven, and likewise He ascended to the divine heaven, not to the physical heaven, for in the physical world there is no heaven - rather, what we see is infinite space, and the physical heaven is the orbit of the stars, meaning the circuit that each star traverses. Ponder deeply on this matter so that you may grasp its reality. AB12232

"Know thou that the Messianic Spirit and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit is always manifest, but capacity and ability (to receive it) is more in some and less in others. After the crucifixion the apostles had not in the beginning the capacity and ability of witnessing the Messianic reality. For they were agitated. But when they found firmness and steadfastness, their inner sight became opened, and thy saw the reality of the Messiah as manifest. For the body of Christ was crucified and vanished, but the Spirit of Christ is always pouring upon the contingent world, and is manifest before the insight of the people of assurance."   AB03757

As to the resurrection of the body of Christ three days subsequent to His departure: This signifies the divine teachings and spiritual religion of His Holiness Christ, which constitute His spiritual body, which is living and perpetual forevermore. By the "three days" of His death is meant that after the great martyrdom, the penetration of the divine teachings and the spread of the spiritual law became relaxed on account of the crucifixion of Christ. For the disciples were somewhat troubled by the violence of divine tests. But when they became firm, that divine spirit resurrected and that body--which signifies the divine word--arose.   AB01126

After the martyrdom of Christ, the Apostles were perplexed and dismayed. The reality of Christ, which consists in His teachings, His bounties, His perfections, and His spiritual power, was hidden and concealed for two or three days after His martyrdom, and had no outward appearance or manifestation--indeed, it was as though it were entirely lost. For those who truly believed were few in number, and even those few were perplexed and dismayed. The Cause of Christ was thus as a lifeless body. After three days the Apostles became firm and steadfast, arose to aid the Cause of Christ, resolved to promote the divine teachings and practise their Lord's admonitions, and endeavoured to serve Him. Then did the reality of Christ become resplendent, His grace shine forth, His religion find new life, and His teachings and admonitions become manifest and visible.  AB00575
