
the Manifestation of His Self, Who hath come yet again   BH08003

When Aqa Mirza Aqa Mulla 'Ali-Rida who came in the land of the Living causes the Siyyid to transform his fire into light - Siyyid 1280 and Siyyid 92 were resurrected in human form. Even the wolf of the time was a certain wolf that initiated this journey. The righteous and unrighteous are all distinct in their return.  BB00468

At two times is the clamor and cry of the people of contingent existence raised up - once at the beginning, that is, at the first creation, and again at the return. Although the beginning is and ever shall be identical with the return.  BH03732

Praise be to God Who hath manifested Himself through truth and revealed through His sovereignty whatsoever He hath willed. He, verily, is the One foretold by the Messengers in the Books of old, that He would turn the dawn into darkness and walk upon the high places of the earth. Praise be to God Who hath named Himself Jehovah in the Torah, the Comforter and Spirit of Truth in the Gospel, and in the Qur'an the Great Announcement, at Whose appearance all who are in the heavens and on earth were thunderstruck, and the limbs of all creation trembled, save those who clung to the hem of the protection of their Lord, the All-Forgiving, the Most Generous.   BH00188

Did We not give you glad tidings of My appearance after Me?   BH03558

The Friend of God and He Who conversed with God have returned and bear witness and see.   BH08487

"Say: By God! The Tradition hath returned in the Self of Ali and the Tree hath called out upon the holy Sinai"  BH05549

The Light crieth out and saith: O ye that lie buried in the graves! By God, He Who conversed with Moses from the Burning Bush hath appeared.   BH10962

The Substance of this gate is this, that Muhammad, blessings of God rest upon Him, and the Manifestations of His Self, have all returned to this world.  BB00001

Say: All the Imams of the Faith have returned to this earthly life, and likewise the Gates of Guidance, the Prophets, the truthful ones, the martyrs and the righteous.  BB00004

Neither the body nor the soul will return to this world, but the spirit of God in them may come again, and is the same in all the prophets. The difference is in degree.  ABU0299

As everything is possible with God, He might grant return as a special gift and grace to some people. Amongst the many prophets, only Elias was said to return and he did so.  ABU1457

As He says in the Gospel: "I go away and come again," and in another place: "I go away and the Comforter will come to complete what I have said and to say what I have not said."   BH03915

Verily, I have been before and shall be hereafter, and God hath revealed no Book except unto Me, nor hath He sent any Messenger save by My leave, and We have been witness over them.  BB00085

Now in fact no one of these new seeds is the same seed which was sown; but the qualities and essence of that seed have reappeared in these seeds. The essence of that seed has been manifested.  ABU2645

And that which you were always wondering about concerning the Return - were it not for considerations of protection it would have been mentioned. If the Siyyid deems it appropriate he will mention it.   BB00479

We initiated this creation and We shall repeat it - a promise binding upon Us. Verily We are powerful to accomplish it. Say: He Who created Muhammad before will create him again on the Day of Resurrection   BB00350

This is indeed Ali Who hath appeared once again in this most pure, most manifest, most luminous Beauty, and Who speaketh the truth in the heaven of immortality and the kingdom on high, if ye be of them that hear.   BH00358

In these days, the Holy Ones of the Realm of Glory, dwelling in the all-highest Paradise, yearn to return unto this world, and be of some service to the Cause of Baha'u'llah and prove their servitude to the Threshold of Abha Beauty.  AB11454

We have believed in Him Who appeared with the name of 'Ali by the command of the sovereign Truth, the All-Praised, and in Him Who shall come at the time of Mustaghath, and in Him Who shall come after Him until the end that hath no end  BH02874

He was Muhammad, the Messenger of God, in the past, and today He is the Qa'im of the Family of Muhammad, peace be upon Him, Whose manifestation is identical to the manifestation of the Messenger of God in relation to the previous Manifestation.   BB00242

He shall cause thee to return to the first life in the last creation even as God caused thee to return in the first creation before the last creation. None but God hath power over this. Therefore await thou the Day of God, for it is a Day of certain truth.  BB00004

Jesus said of John the Baptist - "there has not arisen a greater than he", also "and if ye will receive it, this is Elias which was for to come." It means that John the Baptist was characterized by the same spirit as Elias, not that he was Elias - the same soul or personality.   ABU0525

When the tree attains its maturity and perfection you will also find the original seed appearing upon it, and the new seed signifies the second manifestation of the first, and of the second contains all of the perfections of the first. Thus the return of the first seed is apparent.  ABU0808

Verily that Day is the Day of Resurrection, as was the Day of Muhammad's advent aforetime the Greater Resurrection, and when He Who shall come after shall appear it shall be the Day of Resurrection - the Day whereon God shall manifest Me - and it shall be the Lesser Resurrection.  BB00004

Question: Will you explain the subject of Return? Answer: Baha'u'llah has set forth a lengthy and detailed explanation of this matter in the Book of Certitude. Read it, and the truth of this matter will become clear and manifest. But since you have raised the question, a brief explanation will also be provided here.  AB00419

Elijah came but was not recognized in John. It was not the person or entity of Elijah but his perfection and qualities which John embodied. The flowers of last year will come again this year. We can say they have returned not the actual substance of the former flowers, but their color, perfume, and perfection have returned.   ABU1773

"Already His Holiness the Bab said: According to the doctrine of the Return the Prophets are always the same Man and to this I (the Bab) can testify: 'That which spoke in the Prophets of the past, now speaks in Me and will after Me speak in "Man Yuzhiruhu'llah" (Baha'u'llah), for there is no final end of manifestation'."   ABU0374

The matter of Return, which according to the words of Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsa'i - upon him be the Glory of God - is established and proven, was the Return of Husayn. All the Messengers and the Qa'im stand and dwell beneath His blessed standard, yet eyes and ears are prevented from seeing and hearing, and hearts from contemplation and attention.  BH11616

The first to return to this world was the Messenger of God - He is the first Messenger of the Qa'im - followed by the Commander of the Faithful, who undertook the mission to Bushihr and came unto you, yet ye knew Him not. Consider the first day, when for seven years none but He believed in the Messenger of God, yet today how many claim to believe!   BB00170

Consider somewhat the Bayan: The example of this Revelation and the Revelation of the Point of the Bayan is exactly like the appearance of the son of Zachariah and Jesus the son of Mary. The son of Zachariah, despite his station of prophethood and the greatness of his rank, gave the people glad tidings of the appearance of the Spirit, and both were in the same age.   BH01043

Therefore, all expressions of this word return unto Muhammad in His next Revelation, which is the manifestation of the Point of the Bayán, and not in His first Revelation. For in His First Revelation, the Tree of divine Unity, had not yet been exalted in the inmost realities of the created beings, but now that 1270 years have passed, this Tree hath attained the stage of yielding fruits.  BB00001

And just as the physical sun has multiple scattered rising-places and dawning-points, likewise the Sun of Reality has numerous daysprings and exalted dawning-places, moving between these luminous daysprings and merciful dawning-points. Thus one whose vision is keen and whose heart is attached to and attracted by the Sun follows it with his gaze as it moves between the daysprings and dawning-places.   AB00123

This was that which was known to that illustrious one, when there appeared that Day which had been recorded by the Most Holy Pen in the Tablets of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting - that another Return would come to pass, and less than the eye of a needle would be revealed of the innermost mystery, and all those of Sinai would return from the reality of eternity to nothingness and non-existence.  BH04245

Indeed, they became so detached from all things that even the mention of the Seal [of the Prophets], which was an explicit text of the Book, did not prevent them from attaining the exalted court and the praiseworthy station in the presence of the Sovereign Lord. And now they testify, both secretly and openly, that prophethood hath been from the beginning that hath no beginning and will continue unto the end that hath no end.   BH01185

Behold My manifestation in the name of Him Whom God shall make manifest, and My manifestation in the name of Him Whom God shall make manifest, and My manifestation in the name of Him Whom God shall make manifest, and My manifestation in the name of Him Whom God shall make manifest with the eye of truth, and see Him Whom God shall make manifest as He Who has been made manifest, that thou mayest not remain veiled in any Revelation.  BB00005

And the difference in the manifestations of the Thrones, their tongues, their books, and their verses should not veil the observer, for that which is manifest in all is one Command, and that Command is not the Essence of the Unseen Eternity, but rather is a Will that hath been created by itself for itself, not within anything, and in every manifestation is exalted through His bounty and in every concealment is made impregnable through His grace.  BB00005

On this, that 'Ali, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world, together with all His faithful, and all who believed in the one other than Him. On this, that Fatimih, the blessings of God rest upon Her, hath returned to the world, together with all Her faithful, and all who believed in the one other than Her. On this, that Hasan, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world, together with all His faithful, and all who believed in the one other than Him.  BB00001

Baha'o'llah said that "When I say that I am going to plan this tree again," that it will mean that it will be the identical tree, hence if Baha'u'llah says that He will plant this Tree again, it will be the identical Tree again as its spiritual type only, and there will be a difference in the physical construction of the Tree, as there will also be a difference in the material tree, just as there was in the previous life of that tree, but no difference in the Spirit.   ABU1009

Without a doubt, these holy Lights were blessed with the attainment, prior to all other things, of the good pleasure of God, and that is the most exalted excellence above any excellence, and the most glorious sublimity above any sublimity. There should also be no doubt that Their Return in the Next Revelation is far greater in the sight of God than Their First Revelation in the past. Thus, that which aforetimes hath proven the station of prophethood, today vindicateth the station of Viceregency.  BB00001

And concerning what thou didst mention about the Return, verily We are the Answerers. All the numbers of the Unity have returned through the manifestation of the Point, for all return unto It. That is the gathering place of all gatherings, and ye all bear witness to the Primal Unity, then ye are convinced of Its manifestations by His command. And concerning what thou didst mention about the praised numbers returning as one number - yea, God thy Lord shall cause them to return and shall raise them up.  BB00003

Now to come to the question of the return which is spoken of in Holy Scriptures. For example His Holiness, the Christ, said that John the Baptist is Elias and when they asked of John he said "No, I am not Elias". Though, outwardly these two contradicted each other, however in reality they did not, because that effulgent reality which is absolute and which appeared in all the prophets of God appeared likewise in John the Baptist. That is: the same virtues which were in the former appeared in the later.  ABU0234

As to the Return, as God hath purposed in His sacred and exalted Tablets wherein He hath made this theme known unto His servants; by this is meant the return of all created things in the Day of Resurrection, and this is indeed the essence of the Return as thou hast witnessed in God's own days and thou art of them that testify to this truth. Verily God is fully capable of causing all names to appear in one name, and all souls in one soul. Surely powerful and mighty is He. And this Return is realized at His behest in whatever form He willeth.  BH00354

This is the One who in every Revelation hath been known by a name and hath been manifest in that Revelation, until in the previous Revelation He was the Person of Muhammad - may the blessings of God be upon Him and upon the Manifestations of His Cause. And this is the mystery of the tradition related from the Imams - peace be upon them - concerning Him, that at the time of His appearance He makes mention of all from Adam to the Seal, saying that whosoever wishes to behold them should look upon Him, for verily He is their Reality and none other.   BB00662

To them that are endowed with understanding, it is clear and manifest that when the fire of the love of Jesus consumed the veils of Jewish limitations, and His authority was made apparent and partially enforced, He, the Revealer of the unseen Beauty, addressing one day His disciples, referred unto His passing, and, kindling in their hearts the fire of bereavement, said unto them: I go away and come again unto you. And in another place He said: I go and another will come Who will tell you all that I have not told you, and will fulfill all that I have said.  BH00002

For example, last year there was a flower, and this year there has also appeared a flower. When I say that the flower of last year has returned, I do not mean that the same flower has returned with the selfsame identity. But since this flower is endowed with the same attributes as last year's flower--as it possesses the same fragrance, delicacy, colour and form--it is said that last year's flower has returned, and that this is that same flower. Likewise, when spring comes we say that last year's spring has returned, since all that was found in the former is to be found again in the latter. This is why Christ said, "Ye will witness all that came to pass in the days of the former Prophets."   AB00419

In brief, return is indeed mentioned in the Divine Scriptures, but what is meant is the return of qualities, conditions, effects, perfections and inner realities of the lights which recur in every dispensation - not specific individuals and particular spirits. For instance, we say this lamp is the same as last night's, or that last year's rose has returned to the garden this year. Here the intent is not the individual reality, the fixed identity, and the specific essence of that other light or flower, but rather those qualities and characteristics that were present in that lamp and rose and are now seen in this lamp and rose - meaning those perfections, bounties and gifts of the previous spring have returned in the following spring.   AB00282

Before the First Point, God did manifest Me in such wise that none besides Him can comprehend, and I was, in every Dispensation, among the foremost of them that worship God, the Lord of the heavens and the Lord of the earth, of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of all the worlds. From the Manifestation of the First Point until now, God hath manifested Me in every Dispensation by whatever name hath been manifested, and all do follow Me. I was Noah in the day of Noah, and Abraham in the day of Abraham, and Moses in the day of Moses, and Jesus in the day of Jesus, and Muhammad in the day of Muhammad, and the Primal Point in the day of the Primal Point, and I shall be Him Whom God shall make manifest in His day, and Him Whom God shall make manifest after Him in His day, and Him Who shall be manifested after Him Whom God shall make manifest in His day  BB00063

Say: O concourse of Jews! If ye desire to crucify the Spirit once again, by God, this indeed is that Spirit appeared amongst you, so do with Him as ye please, for He hath sacrificed His soul in God's path and feareth no one, even were all who are in the heavens and earth to gather against Him, if ye be of those who are certain. Say: O concourse of the Gospel! If ye desire to slay Muhammad the Messenger of God, by God, this indeed is His very Self appeared with the truth, so do with Him as ye desire, for He yearneth to meet His Beloved in the kingdom of His glory, and thus was the decree, if ye but knew. Say: O people of the Furqan! If you desire to hang the body of 'Ali, through whom the Bayan was sent down, by God, this is His Beloved One Who hath appeared with another name and hath come upon the clouds of inner meaning with a sovereignty from His presence.   BH00926
