The New Jerusalem has descended from heaven!   ABU1688

you have acknowledged and recognized the return of Christ  AB12177

"I go away and come again." But when He came, the people of the earth denied Him   BH08117

The real Christ's spirit has come again from the supreme apex to illumine the world.  ABU0875

Verily, He Who was raised to heaven hath come with the truth and giveth glad tidings unto the people of this Revelation   BH06338

"As He saith in the Gospel, My coming is even as when the thief is in the house, and the goodman of the house watcheth not."  AB00397

They now believe that Christ will come from heaven in a cloud. Christ has come from heaven, but in a body just as Jesus did.  ABU2375

Elijah also was expected to come from heaven, and the Christ said, "Elijah is none other than John the Baptist." The reality of John was in the supreme concourse.  ABU1349

The name of God which Christ gave to His disciples was the Name of the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah. It was the same spiritually, but it was a Name which was never pronounced.   AB03591

He Who ascended to heaven hath come upon the crimson clouds with hosts of His holiness, and the Kingdom of God moveth before Him and behind Him are the hosts of revelation   BH09243

the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, hath descended from heaven from before God in the form of a beautiful maiden, wondrous in beauty, unique among the veiled ladies, secluded in pavilions, prepared for union  AB03051

And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see that divine Beauty coming from heaven, riding upon the clouds with power, grandeur, and magnificence, sending His angels with a great sound of a trumpet.  BH00002

Some are awaiting the coming of Christ in the clouds of heaven. He has already come in the heart if you believe, while those who do not believe in the Revelation of Baha'u'llah cannot see Him on account of clouds and veils.   ABU1773

You had asked by what proof it can be established, by what evidence it can be demonstrated, and what glad-tidings can be given, that this divine manifestation is the same heavenly Kingdom of which Christ spoke saying it was at hand.   AB00304

Verily the Suns are eclipsed, the luminaries are darkened, the stars are scattered and the Son of Man hath come upon the clouds of Heaven with power and great glory, sending His messengers and hosts with the sounds of the Wonderful Trumpet.   AB02473

In the Gospel of the New Testament they are expecting the Father and the Second Coming of Christ...These tidings are the same in all the Holy Books, only expressed in different ways-two successive Manifestations. And all the Universe is promised these two.  ABU0466

"Is this what is meant by the Second Coming of Christ?" "Christ is an Expression of the Divine Reality, the Single Essence and Heavenly Entity, which hath no beginning or ending. It has appearance, arising, and manifestation and setting in each one of the Cycles."   ABU2958

In the day of Christ all nations were expecting that His Holiness Christ should come from heaven, and He came from heaven, though outwardly He came from the womb of Mary. Hence, He hath said in the Gospels: "No one shall ascend to heaven except the one who hath come from heaven." Now all the people expect Him to come from heaven.  AB05724

Glory be to God! Time and again it has flowed from the pen of 'Abdu'l-Baha and has been explicitly and conclusively declared that what is meant in the prophecies by the Lord of Hosts and the Promised Christ is the Blessed Beauty and the Exalted One [the Bab], and the beliefs of all must be centered on this explicit and conclusive text.  AB00252

One of the great signs is "I will descend from heaven," and at the present time the Christians are awaiting the same. Jesus Christ, in His first appearance, came from Heaven, although He really came from the womb of Mary. He said no one can ascend to Heaven except He is come from heaven. He came from the womb of Mary, although in reality He descended from Heaven.  ABU0251

Afterwards, the companions and disciples of Jesus asked Him concerning those signs that must needs signalize the return of His manifestation. When, they asked, shall these things be? Several times they questioned that peerless Beauty, and, every time He made reply, He set forth a special sign that should herald the advent of the promised Dispensation. To this testify the records of the four Gospels.  BH00002

It is recorded in the Sacred Scriptures that Christ will return and that His return is conditioned upon the fulfilment of certain signs: When He returns, He will be attended by those signs. Among them: The sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven. At that time all the tribes of the earth shall mourn and lament, and the sign of the Son of man shall appear in heaven, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.  AB00570

He shall come with the Kingdom of God and His power which hath surrounded the world. This power (or reign) is in the world of hearts and spirits and not in that of matter (or bodies). For the material world is not comparable to a single wing of a fly, or rather less in the sight of thy Lord, wert thou of those who know! Verily Christ came with His Kingdom from the beginning which hath no beginning and will come with His Kingdom to the eternity of eternities, inasmuch as in this sense Christ is an expression of the divine reality, the simple essence and heavenly entity which hath no beginning or ending. It hath appearance, arising and manifestation and setting in each of the cycles.  AB04541

Quite a number of people have come from America and Europe and are living in Jerusalem. These people are partners of each other's wealth and prosperity. They have come there and are expecting the coming of Christ. In the beginning they were in the utmost love with one another, but now that fire is extinguished. Yet they are in the expectation of Christ's coming! Nevertheless these people have studied mathematics and phenomena! Christ says--"I will come from heaven"--but which heaven is not appointed. Just as He formerly came from heaven, and yet He was born, the second coming will be likewise. But these (people) are expecting Him to come just as a thunder bolt from heaven, and when they did not find this (to be so) and found He was born, it was a veil to them. This time also He has come from heaven, but through the womb. In this endless, phenomenal space there is no such heaven. It is certain that this space is infinite. By heaven is meant the World of Divinity. The meaning is this; that He has the physical body, but His reality is from the Divine Realm. He is not of the contingent world, but of that of Divinity.  ABU0714
