Whatever is permissible for publication in these days is given permission to be published, for every time has its requirements. As for the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, in the blessed days permission was not granted to anyone to make copies, as circumstances required. Now it has been printed and published. If the Kitab-i-Aqdas were to be printed, it would be published and fall into the hands of contemptible fanatics, therefore it is not permitted.  AB11143

I sent these to Tehran so that you, along with Jinab-i-Na'im, Jinab-i-Ibn-i-Abhar, Jinab-i-Ibn-i-Asdaq, Jinab-i-Mulla Muhammad-'Ali-i-Qa'ini, Jinab-i-Samandar, and Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Mahdi (son of that noble one's sister) may arrange a gathering that maintains the utmost order and organization, and from those blessed papers extract one book or two books or multiple treatises for publication, so that noble one's efforts are not wasted.   AB02450

The book containing matters pertaining to the Faith and its history which was sent through Mr. Remey will, God willing, be sent and published. As for the book containing the history of the Cause which you intend to author, it must conform entirely to the article. Likewise, some Tablets containing universal teachings which you had sent with Mr. Remey will, God willing, be reviewed and forwarded.  AB12534

In Tehran they have searched for copies of Haji Mirza Jani's history - it has become clear that it was altered, therefore it was written that they should send the details to your presence.   AB04565

As for the matter of history, since each of the friends has written something and most contradict one another, therefore gather as much as possible the papers that are with you and those that are with other friends, and yourself proceed to the Holy Land so that guidance may be given here.  AB03278

This Nuqtatu'l-Kaf is pure fabrication - the late Haji Mirza Jani has no knowledge of this history. The history itself is clear evidence that this is contrived.  AB12194

They tampered with the contents of the history of Haji Mirza Jani by removing some of its passages and inserting others.   ABU3130

Print soon the booklet and spread it broadcast.   AB06042

However, do not give this treatise to outsiders.   AB05145

Henceforth, if anyone in any region wishes to publish something, it must be with the approval of the Spiritual Assembly.  AB02674

The book that you sent - its correct copy has been sent  AB04465

As for the printing of the Book of Teaching Lessons by his honor Sadr al-Sudur, there is no objection to it, and there is no objection to sending one volume of the Book of the Key of Gates to Rafsanjan.  AB01994

The writings of Mirza Abul-Fazl - may my life be a sacrifice to him - I am sending to you in order that you will, all together, compile books from these writings and immediately print and circulate them.   AB04996

Promote the Book of Proofs and the History of the Martyrs.   AB07322

Print and distribute everywhere this letter of Mirza Ahmad.  AB12020

This is enough proof that what he hath written is spurious.   AB05283

Indeed, they have shown great effort in publishing the tablets  AB00754

It will be written to Egypt that books should be sent by post.  AB06131

discussion of proposed anti-Baha'i book to be published in Egypt   AB00813

The Book of Mathnavi was received and in time it will be published  AB03117

Give this to be translated and published and distributed among the friends  AB04654

make clear that this history of Haji Mirza Jani has been poisoned and distorted  AB06329

Send some of the newspapers that were sent to reach him through an intermediary  AB12713

Say to the beloved maid-servant of God...to write the book which she had in mind  AB02874

The text discusses protocols around handling and reviewing personal correspondence  AB07746

And I too must write a detailed commentary every week and have absolutely no time   AB05925

The Tablet for the prince was sent, but act according to the consultation of Varqa   BH01889

translate eloquently and deliver the enclosed letter which belongs to Mr. Alexander.  AB07069

Have the newspaper article translated and printed together with a copy of the report  AB11795

We will send whatever papers we want to you so that you may print and publish them.   AB11946

"tell them some Tablets will be sent later for you to translate, publish and distribute"  AB00369

I have written a Tablet with my own hand for the Star of the West. Print it in its pages.  AB06545

The Bab declareth: "Beware lest thou be veiled by what hath been revealed in the Bayan."   AB00082

Send the book which is the translation by the late Mirza Jalal so that it may be reviewed.  AB07990

As for the translation of Tablets and making photographs of them, this is very agreeable.   AB04114

A detailed letter was written to them, printed in Tehran, and distributed to all the world.  AB04732

Some of the sacred writings that the Spiritual Assembly deems appropriate may be published.  AB02722

Therefore, print and publish the poem, and it will also be published in the Star of the West.   AB03969

In any case, when a school is established, be very careful that harmful books do not enter it.  AB05039

If Mr. Phelps wants to print the book again, the talk that I had with him during the second journey at Mirza Asadu'llah's house about the immortality of spirits and souls should also be included in the second edition. If he includes this correction, he is permitted. AB02265

As for the Stuttgart letters, translate them quickly into English and send them to their owners  AB10594

Send with utmost speed several volumes - that is, one copy of each book - to Haddad in America.  AB08668

Regarding the book, please write what stage it has reached, for hearts are awaiting its issuance   AB03283

As for the publication of books, this depends on permission and authorization from the authority.   AB04395

Unconfirmed publications are absolutely not permitted. The resulting difficulties are too numerous.  AB00760

He has written many books in this Cause and they will be studied carefully by the coming generations.  ABU1288

And regarding new publications and their printing and distribution, prepare those booklets until I come  AB03680

Whatever treatises of this servant you write and publish should be general treatises not specific ones.  AB11860

The history of the martyrs of Yazd which Bayda has authored - if it is published it would be very good.   AB04387

Instructions for transcribing and printing tablets in fine handwriting with utmost precision and elegance  AB11882

The reference to Madame Markovitch's comedy needing proper revision, and the criticism of Browne's book.   AB01579

A selection of the Holy Writings was recently sent to Mr. Dreyfus who presented them to the British Library  AB01509

You were engaged in service, publishing and distributing books... Send a copy of that book to the Holy Land.   AB02518

trouble you that you should definitely make every effort to deliver the books, as many customers have appeared   BH10871

"Now the Supreme Pen has revealed specifically for you what It willed, and after that the matter is in His hand."   BH01733

His poems were somewhat corrected. Send them to his respected spiritual wife so that they may be corrected in Yazd  AB11027

In it you had requested writings for certain blessed souls, but these had already been written and sent previously   AB06995

Miss Barney, as you know, would not agree. She wants to collect and translate them first, then have them published   AB05074

A response regarding this matter was written and sent so that you may print it and distribute it among the friends.   AB11971

The treatise you had written has been slightly revised and is being sent exactly as is for you to print and publish.   AB01185

service to the Star of the West publication should continue but within practical constraints of maintaining livelihoods  AB02744

Write this letter in very fine handwriting in forty or fifty copies and send them with utmost speed to various regions.  AB12018

You will certainly review it. After reading, publish and distribute it in various lands without Aqa Siyyid Mahdi's name.  AB01464

Make mention in the Book of Isma'il, that thou shouldst carry some copies and deliver them unto God's faithful servants.   BB00529

As for translating the Eastern and Western letters into Turkish and Russian and publishing them, there is no harm in this.  AB05988

But it would have been necessary for them to also send a printing press from Paris or a photographic apparatus from England   AB01578

Regarding the cemetery matter, a response was written and sent previously - you will certainly receive information about it   AB05381

Regarding the printed apologetic materials authored by the American friends, we wrote for them to send all of them to Tehran.  AB11706

Regarding the House of Translation, this matter is currently mere speculation. No signs of its realization are evident at all.   AB01796

Regarding the publication of the tablet on economics, it will be all right to publish it in an American journal (or magazine).   AB01119

The book of Tablets of the Blessed Beauty was received in Paris from both Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Siyavash and Jinab-i-Muhibu's-Sultan  AB12433

those pages that have been translated should be reviewed and approved in the Spiritual Assembly and distributed among the friends  AB08065

I am pleased with the talk you gave at the Parliament of Religions. God willing may you always succeed in giving appropriate talks.  AB04373

Likewise, if possible, some of the friends may subscribe to the newspaper Chehreh Nema in Egypt and pay the subscriptions in advance.   AB05866

And publish and distribute the treatise which you previously wrote and revised and refined regarding the proof of divinity and oneness  AB06200

Regarding the Kitab-i-Iqan, it was previously written that its printing and distribution among the friends is appropriate and suitable.  AB02892

You have come to assist me by translating His Sacred Writings as well as my letters to the friends in America and elsewhere in the West.   ABU2864

If accepted, well and good; if not, write confidentially to the Holy Land about the situation and a decisive ruling will come from there.  AB12117

In these days certain passages have been revealed under the name of "Traveler" - there would be no harm if they were sent to European lands.  BH07364

Read the Tablets and books of this Cause among the friends but do not distribute them among the general public. At present wisdom requires this.  AB12424

Husaynquli's book was reviewed three years ago. The honored Abu'l-Fadl is engaged in responding to those books and a response is being written.   AB06681

Regarding the publication of books that you wrote about, any book that is published must be with the permission and approval of the government.   AB00371

Due to the abundance of letters, they were not able to make copies, therefore they were sent without copies. Please send copies of these letters.  AB03483

The beautifully printed letters of 'Abdu'l-Baha that you had printed in your fine handwriting arrived. Indeed they were exceptionally well printed.  AB00560

Some letters arrived addressed to you. As per your permission and request, those that contained enclosures were opened. Now all are being sent to you  AB08387

If, however, in the course of events such matters arise as the care of orphans, printing of books, building the Temple, etc. they are to be discussed.  ABU1104

what thou saidst was suitable and appropriate, but do not give him the Kitab-i-Aqdas. Give such souls the Tablets of Tajalliyat, Ishraqat and Bisharat.  AB02206

The book you had written about Qurratu'l-Ayn I translated into Arabic, and the translation is very eloquent and fluent, and I read all of it carefully.  AB01033

However, one side of the tablets of arrival must be erased as previously commanded from the Source of the Command. Blessed are they who act accordingly.  BH01944

The Persian Tablet that was revealed specifically for the friends in the Land of Qaf - it would be good if copies reach the Land of Ta and other regions.  BH03998

The papers you wrote are enclosed with this letter. Take a copy of them and be sure to destroy the original papers - their preservation is not permitted.  AB06068

And as for the treatise you had written - publish and distribute this treatise. The friends of God will certainly assist you in publishing this treatise.   AB04374

And Mr. Hishmatullah should engage in translating important Tablets that are relevant to these days...and they should be carefully matched and published.   AB00798

In this day, the most useful books are those which demonstrate the validity of the Cause with logical proofs, intellectual evidences and spiritual arguments   ABU3075

"Therefore, a general letter has been written and is being sent, so that you may transcribe it in very fine handwriting, print it, and send it to all regions."  AB11917

"The letter you wrote dated April 11, 1919, along with two treatises - one in Persian and one in English - was reviewed. The publication of both is permitted."   AB04336

The purpose was that the effect of the pen of that master of the righteous ones not be lost. Now complete the honor by endeavoring to have that noble book printed.  AB03412

Indeed, your unique journal is like a pure and delicate mirror in which images of truth are reflected. It is the manifestation of truth that appears in this journal  AB05192

However, from some of the servitude-laden contents joy was obtained while others were corrected...I undertook to correct your poetry so that it may serve as a model   AB05241

The books sent have arrived and came at a most opportune time. They were sent to Jinab-i-Abu'l-Fadl. This was a great service that will become a bridle for this sinner.  AB11703

The Blessed Book which is addressed to the Wolf was sent to Paris through the efforts of Jinab-i-Mirza Haji Aqa through your intermediary. This was a source of great joy.  AB12353

The believers should use nothing that Kheirella has translated as all are wrong. If there is any prayer in the little book which he has translated they must be taken out.  AB11101

The European talks have been collected and corrected, and may be published. Any of them that align with Theosophy, if you translate and publish them, there would be no harm.  AB09928

"Many of the translations of the Holy Tablets were forwarded to him and toward the latter end of his life he was going to write a book on this Cause but death overtook him."  ABU2934

If the book which the Greater Branch recently sent to Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin, containing the Tablets to the Kings, is given, it would be best - but only after gaining confidence.  BH09304

A few days ago a Tablet was graciously revealed specifically for him. God willing, after this, along with the reply to his letter, this evanescent servant will write and send it.  BH01846

Send the book Proofs of the Covenant that you have authored so that I may review it and return it. This way is better and you should definitely not publish it without my review.   AB04320

The twelve chapters which thou hadst written regarding the Cause were received. Praise be to God that thou art confirmed in service and assisted in promoting the divine teachings.   AB02373

And should there arise any difference regarding the meaning of any of the divine utterances or verses that have been sent down, inquire so that the purpose may become clear to all.   BH01321

This newspaper in the West was published by someone from abroad and contains a detailed section about this Cause... therefore it was sent so that you may publish and distribute it.   AB12004

I have heard that you have established a library and placed valuable books therein, and have announced that the seekers of the Kingdom of God may come and read and benefit therefrom.  AB10020

Your poems were read like flowing water - they were innovative and refined. In some instances they did not accord with 'Abdu'l-Baha's taste, and some revisions were made - no matter.  AB04780

These notes are the cause of the encouragement of the believers of God in the construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar; therefore the more it is published and circulated the better it is.  AB09484

The book which you had written and sent has arrived, and the friends are busy reading it and highly praise and commend your book. God willing, when it is translated I will read it too.  AB06569

As for the history of the Cause, the Narrative of the Traveller has been translated and is being printed in Chicago and will be sent for you to distribute, as it is brief and beneficial.  AB04685

When I learned of this I sought the ultimate goal and presented it before His Countenance...The servant read his verse and found it a brilliant star in the heaven of eloquence and rhetoric.  BH01745

Some copies of the Most Holy, Most Glorious Tablet of Javad were sent in the revealed handwriting without names. They may write the name of whomever they deem advisable and give it to them.  BH01432

At the time of writing the power of attraction was manifest and apparent and the real teacher was instructing and inspiring: Consequently it was composed in the utmost fluency and eloquence.  AB02405

These articles must be revised and corrected by those souls who know the history of the Cause. If they approve their circulation undoubtedly it will lead to the rapid promotion of the Cause.   AB01157

If passed by the Convention and accepted then there can be no objection. If you can have it translated, then send it here. Then afterwards, it must be passed and sanctioned by the committee.   ABU1111

I have sent the papers of Jinab-i-Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, may my spirit be a sacrifice for him, so that you may collectively extract treatises from them to be immediately published and disseminated.  AB03513

some time ago a detailed petition was sent to your honor's presence, and after sending it was noticed that two Most Holy, Most Exalted Tablets remained and were not sent. They are now being sent  BH02213

Regarding the book you asked about, although I never have time to read, nevertheless I read a few pages. It contained mention of the Blessed Beauty, therefore you have permission to publish it.   AB01927

But let me tell you: prepare a printing press and establish a visible workshop - perhaps then one could manage and write these letters daily. Then I too might find time to attend to calligraphy.   AB01501

The book also arrived and was seen. Praise be to God, you executed it well. It contains exhortations, counsels, wisdom and morals. We beseech God that it may remind souls and grant them awareness.   BH01934

regarding published documents, if the wording of one differs from another, should the meanings differ then inquire about it, but if the meanings correspond while the words differ, there is no harm.  AB11656

As to the book that thou intendest to write: When thou hast written it (or if you write it), send it to the Holy Land (i.e., Acca) to be seen (or examined) so that thou mayest publish it afterward.   AB02590

The writings of Mirza Abul-Fazl--may my life be a sacrifice to him--I am sending to you in order that you will, all together, compile books from these writings and immediately print and circulate them.   AB04996

The Star of the West magazine is a cause of joy and gladness to the friends, for it is a polished mirror reflecting the events and happenings of the Cause and the spiritual occurrences in that country.  AB08405

Your eloquent writing was observed, and your second brief letter was seen. The books of the late Shaykh are missing here. Praise be to God, through the efforts of Hajji Niyaz they are available there.   AB11813

strive to compose the book "The Proof of the Manifestation of the All-Merciful from the Dawning-Place of Possibility." The breathings of the Holy Spirit will assist thee in this at all times and moments  AB12206

The translation of the blue pamphlet is quite acceptable. The answer to the letter of Barakatollah has been also well written. Distribute ye Baha'i pamphlets among those souls who are thirsty for them.   AB04325

Keep extremely confidential such important persons as the honored Astarabadi and the esteemed person from Khurasan, and maintain their secrecy. Do not mention them even to those who are privy to secrets  AB10599

Letters arrive and remain with you for several days. Among these, Mirza Jalal had sent a letter, but then he himself arrived. After his arrival his letter was received. Please be attentive in this regard.  AB08664

obtain with utmost speed that book written in refutation of the Fara'id, along with the treatises written by Haji Muhammad Karim Khan himself, including the Tir-i-Shihab treatise and the Sultaniyyih treatise   AB11716

Leave the political treatise for now until a second signal is given for its publication. In those days when it was written, its publication was very beneficial, for all subsequent events were mentioned therein.  AB11801

And regarding the book of proofs by Sadru's-Sudur and its compilation and arrangement that you wrote about, we were extremely pleased. Send that book to the Holy Shrine so it can later be printed and published.   AB01387

Madame Isabella has truly shown extraordinary effort in composing the book. Convey to her my utmost satisfaction and pleasure. God willing, she will succeed in illustrating and distinguishing these two matters.   AB03222

Thou hast written concerning the publication of some proofs and arguments along with the Hidden Words. Now, since they are published, circulate them among the people. I hope that it may produce beneficial results.   AB02972

As for the newspaper Thabat, be sure to obtain multiple copies with the newspaper Lisan al-Hal and send them to Tehran, Hamadan, Shiraz, Isfahan, Mashhad, Ishqabad, Baku, Tabriz, Qazvin and Kashan, but in envelopes.   AB04396

a book was sent through Monsieur Dreyfus - surely you have studied it, and many other books exist in the Paris library. It appears that if you direct your attention to studying them, desired understandings will emerge  AB00879

Thy letter was received, and likewise the printed copies enclosed therewith. Thou art indeed showing the utmost effort, and this causeth joy. The circulation of these papers in those regions will enlighten the friends   AB01483

Some friends in London in these days had copied those erroneous Tablets with the intention of publishing them. I immediately prohibited this... Therefore, devote all your efforts to publishing the Divine Sacred Tablets.   AB11825

Although this treatise is brief, it contains a detailed exposition, for whatever is written in praise of God and in proof of the truth of the Infinite One, even if brief, is a clear book and a page from the Supreme Tablets  AB06268

Regarding the editing of that Christian person's book - if you are successful in that, it would be a great achievement and is very necessary. And when he writes the book he has in mind, he should bring it himself at that time.   AB07326

The utterances from the Tablet of Wisdom and the exhortations and counsels of His Highness Baha'u'llah which you have printed in pamphlet form must be separate. It is not permitted to print them in the list of your present books  AB11370

Regarding the books of Aqa Mirza 'Abdu'llah, upon him be the Glory of God, you had written that whatever is completed should be sent. However, they themselves have provided a list, and accordingly have requested one Persian book.   BH00644

That which was inscribed by the pen of the love of God upon the page of writing was noted. In truth, delivering the aforementioned letter from the Counsellor to the Ambassador contradicts the wisdom mentioned in psalms and tablets   AB12163

I submit that your letters have arrived continuously and successively, and I have been blessed to read them. After their arrival, they were presented with other petitions to the Most Holy Court and were submitted into His presence.   BH01203

Whosoever wishes to make a copy, please grant permission, but much emphasis is needed that they preserve them so they do not become blackened or lost. And since there was no bookbinder here, they were therefore sent without binding.   BH01615

The book that you sent last year was printed in Tehran in very beautiful calligraphy and was distributed throughout Iran. Everyone read it day and night with utmost joy and delight, and all are awaiting the second volume as promised   AB12143

Refer to Nikolai's history. Translate, publish, and circulate any matters similar to the issue of the sacred remains of the Exalted One which are clearly false, so that all the friends may become aware and mention them in gatherings.  AB10379

When I understood what was in your letter, I sought the Goal and presented what was therein before the One, the Single. He spoke - and His utterance is most sweet - saying that you should wait until God comes to you with His utterance.  BH02507

You have requested to print and distribute the questions of Mr. Mirza Haydar-'Ali - printing and distribution among the friends is permitted but among outsiders is absolutely not permitted, as it would cause universal hatred and enmity.  AB00733

She must certainly revise the first book. If she succeeds in this, she will receive the protection of divine favors and it will make her an illumined lamp. Regarding the diagnosis of her book, no effort will be spared as far as possible.   AB01182

Therefore, proceed now with publishing your treatise. The time for dramatic performance will come. Although the Baha'is are scattered and most are poor, except for a few wealthy ones, they will certainly assist you with publishing the book.   AB01246

The magazine "Bisharat" arrived, but due to numerous occupations 'Abdu'l-Baha has not had time to read it. God willing, it will be read later and a letter written. My hope is that this periodical will succeed in serving the world of humanity.  AB02674

And as for the book of Letters of this servant, on the back of the book let just this much be written: "Letters of Abdu'l-Baha" and at the end of the book whatever the majority of votes of the Assembly of the friends decides, implement that.   AB02624

You had inquired about the despatched and unsigned letter. That letter is authentic and its original copy is safely kept and signed. Whenever an unsigned letter arrives, inquire before putting in into action and wait until an answer is given.  AB02063

The book that thou hast written thou wilt send and, after its translation, it will be read. Each letter that thou receivest from me, where in the ending there is the command for its spreading, thou oughtest to publish that letter and circulate it.  AB03542

Although the New Journey has not yet arrived, since that excellent book is a rose garden of divine truths and meanings, and contains the glad tidings of the divine Prophets, therefore its sweet fragrance has reached our nostrils before its arrival   AB07540

With regard to the printing of any book that concerns the Cause, it is not permissible except with permission from the Centre of the Covenant, whether that be of the blessed Tablets or the composition of the friends, otherwise there is great danger.  AB11218

And regarding the fact that Aqa 'Ali, upon him be God's peace, has intended to send children to school - this matter was presented and the greatest prohibition appeared. The wisdom of non-acceptance is clear and evident, needing no mention now or ever.   BH00850

If thou shouldst edit one magazine every six months--two in a year--then forward it to the Holy Land to be corrected and returned, after due correction, for its publication--it is very acceptable and will be the cause of the penetration of the Word of God.  AB02062

All the books which thou hadst sent through Jinab-i-Aqa Sayfu'llah arrived safely and were sent to His Honor Abu'l-Fadl. This matter was a great service to the Cause of God, for much effort had been made to obtain those books but it had not been possible.   AB11720

The Tablets were sent. The sooner they arrive the better it would be. And the Tablets that were revealed in response to people's objections - make copies of them quickly so that Salman is not delayed, and afterward send them to whomever they deem advisable.   BH02933

He gives the highest praise and description of your new composition, saying its publication and distribution would be extremely beneficial. Therefore through the efforts of His Holiness Maknat its eloquent translation must be completed with all speed and published.  AB01164

Regarding what you wrote about Mrs. Cole's decision to publish a translation of the Book of Certitude (Kitab-i-Iqan), you must absolutely exercise complete care in reviewing it and consider the eloquence and fluency of the expressions. The more eloquent, the better.   AB00924

As for the matter of Gobineau's book translation - the contents of that book do not conform to reality...it is clearly confused. In some places it is merely the imaginings of opponents with no truth whatsoever. The ignorant related such accounts and he wrote them down.   AB02045

Copies of the journal were received through His Honor Aqa Mirza Mehdi, but due to the press of duties it was only possible to immediately review one copy. God willing the other copies will also be read in succession and if anything needs to be written it will be written.  AB00836

A Baha'i publication must never publish anything which may cause provocations or injure the feelings of any one or displease any soul. It must publish such matters that would be conducive to the happiness, hopefulness, advancement, guidance and illumination of the readers.   ABU1232

Now, whenever any of the friends writes articles and wants them published, it is better to submit them to the Executive Committee and have the Committee approve them before publication...the purpose of having the Executive Committee's approval is to maintain order in affairs  AB02955

Regarding the writing of a statement to appear upon the title page of every book, first the book must be forwarded here and concerning that book a brief answer will be written and if its publication is permitted a statement will be written for its title page. This is better.  AB01474

Now I have decided to read this history as much as possible each midnight. The first section which I read last night was very eloquent and well-written...Therefore, you must certainly send these two pages, and it would be better if you yourself were present for the printing.   AB12171

And concerning what he mentioned about "I will make copies of the Sublime Tablet and send them to the world" - what is meant by this statement? I swear by the ocean of utterance that the Desired One of creation never had and hath not any desire for the mention of these sciences.   BH00761

Let your composition be according to the best style. Do not go beyond the limit of literary law. Like unto the literary productions of the Cambridge university let the pronouns be with small letters and the Capital letters be for nouns, places etc. Do not publish it in the book.   AB02081

Your noble letter with its gracious contents brought boundless joy and delight, for it indicated that your health is moderate and the conclusive book is nearing completion...If the book were completed during winter and you could travel to Tehran in spring it would be most suitable  AB04195

The book containing the translation of the Paris Talks has arrived. Thou hast indeed labored arduously. God willing, it will become the cause of the spread of the Cause in those regions. This translation is like a banner that has been raised. It will surely yield momentous results.  AB12460

The letter that was written in defense against the calumniators of the people of Najaf-i-Ashraf - you must certainly keep it secure and give its copy to no one, for it will fall into the hands of the Yahyais and they will send it to Najaf, causing an increase in hatred and enmity.   AB11995

Thou hast written that the publication of the book of Mirza Abu'l Fazl is commenced. This is very acceptable, for his books are written with the utmost sincerity. Likewise the translation of the Hidden Words that you are just thinking to print another edition, this is also acceptable.  AB03105

Regarding Some Answered Questions of 'Abdu'l-Baha, write to Mr. Dreyfus to send its English and French versions to Iran - this is very good and appropriate, even necessary, and they should send many copies. But sending the Persian version is not wise at present - it will be sent later.  AB02909

Two secretaries, Mirza Nuru'd-Din and Mirza Mahmud-i-Zarqani, are constantly writing and cannot keep up, and I myself am continuously writing with my own pen. Despite this, I cannot keep up, and due to the volume of writing I do not leave the house and have not a moment's rest or comfort.  AB07678

A letter arrived from the handmaiden of God Isabella Grinevskaya. The original and reply are being sent for you to review and deliver the response. If the esteemed lady wishes to publish her book, should the divine friends provide assistance and support, it would encourage and motivate her.   AB02200

He had in his hands my Persian diary, and with his own hands writing a word here, a phrase there or crossing a sentence. Now and then he laughed at some of my expressions. For more than one hour he continued reading and correcting and then he gave them to me to be mailed with a sigh of relief.  ABU3560

Compare the Kitab-i-Aqdas with the handwriting of him who attained the presence of his Lord, His Holiness Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin, upon him be the Glory of God. The printed version produced under the interference of the Center of Violation is not correct; the handwriting of Jinab-i-Zayn is accurate.  AB00291

The short treatise which thou hast written upon "Service in the Kingdom," forwarding it here and asking permission for its publication, was read. Spread it among the believers. The copy of the pamphlet that thou hast sent before, God willing, in opportune time will be read and forwarded to thee.   AB07336

Regarding the printing of the Treatise on Civilization that you had written about - excellent is your reward in service to your Lord! However, His Honor Jud, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God, will write the details. Beyond that it is up to you - however you wish, we shall carry it out.   AB02377

the treatise which you wrote in refutation of one who rejected God was translated into English. Upon review, it was deemed better that the original and translation be published together, but it would not fit in the Star of the West. Therefore, it was published separately as an independent treatise  AB03559

You had requested some books from Baku and Ishqabad to be presented to certain important people. From among those books, the Kitab-i-Aqdas, the Tablet of Tajalliyat, the Tablet of Ishraqat, the Kitab-i-Iqan, the Seven Valleys, the Hidden Words, and the Madaniyyih - their presentation is permissible.  AB09050

You had written about Mr. Herborn's desire to establish a company for the publication and dissemination of the divine teachings. At present this is not advisable, as it is wartime. But God willing, this war will end in peace; afterward we shall meet with him and make firm arrangements in this regard.  AB12284

They have requested a photograph of the Blessed House from Baku. Take a photograph with utmost perfection and send it to them, for they have requested it from Petersburg. Others had also sought permission in this matter. The response was written that there is no harm in taking and giving photographs.   AB07010

Gather together the Tablets of Ishraqat, Kalimat, Tajalliyat, and Bisharat, along with some of the Persian and Arabic Tablets containing divine counsels and exhortations suited to the present time and circumstances, and either send the compilation or let us select and send them for you to print there.  AB08646

"The Kitab-el-Akdas must not be issued until a thoroughly capable translation has been made by the best scholars in Arabic and English. For the present the Tablets of Ishrakhat, Tajelleyat and Tarazat should be followed and carefully studied, as they lead up to the Spiritual Laws of the Kitab-el-Akdas."  ABU1574

The translation of Tablets is acceptable and beloved. If, occasionally, thou writest a concise, terse and useful article, with the utmost sweetness, containing the teachings and exhortations of the Blessed Perfection, verbatim, for the purpose of publishing in the journals of Denmark, it will be most agreeable.  AB02398

Whenever anyone wishes to publish something, it must be with the knowledge of the Spiritual Assembly. Without this, order would be disrupted, with everyone writing, publishing and disseminating whatever they wish. Thus, for the sake of orderly affairs, one must first consult the Spiritual Assembly and seek their counsel.  AB04858

Any letter sent from this land without this servant's seal has the purpose of casting doubts... you must awaken the loved ones of the All-Merciful that they should never look at such unsealed papers, for their contents are purely misleading. Rather they should return them to this land so they may be given to their owner.   AB01628

Regarding the letter of recommendation you wrote about for there, it is very good, but if addressed to everyone it would not be appropriate for your dignity and the Cause of God, as America is different from Iran. Rather, specify one suitable person to whom a complete recommendation can be made and he can convey it to others.   AB01014

In view of this undertaking, your presence was requested, but this matter was not accepted. They themselves should obtain a correct copy and proceed with what they have intended. Great care must be taken in the correction. If a book of verses is published, it is beloved before God, provided it does not cause mischief and commotion.   BH00202

As to the book of Mirza Mahmud-i-Zarqani, there is no objection to its translation into English and its circulation particularly among the friends. And as for the printing of Tablets and letters, this is dependent upon and conditioned on the opinion of the Convention's Executive Committee so that it may not cause confusion of minds.  AB00306

You had requested books from Baku and 'Ishqabad to present to certain important persons. Among these books, the Kitab-i-Aqdas, the Tablet of Tajalliyat, the Tablet of Ishraqat, the Kitab-i-Iqan, the Seven Valleys, the Hidden Words, and the Madaniyyih - their presentation is permitted. Request them from 'Ishqabad that they may send them.  AB09050

In any case, thou art aware and fully cognizant of the harm of such publications. Act in such a way that it may not cause the scratching of minds and the disturbance of consciences. When the Ancient Sea sends forth a wave, it will sweep away all these foams of doubts from the surface of the waters, and the pure, delicate water shall remain.  AB05966

Concerning the compilation of Divine Tablets specifically addressed to you, this is very good and appropriate, but printing and publication is absolutely inappropriate at present, as many people would be inclined toward this and difficulties would arise therefrom. However, you may compile one copy in very fine handwriting and send it to me.   AB00140

The publication of 'Abdu'l-Baha's talks in any city is up to the opinion of the friends in that city. For example, the talks that were given in Washington are up to the opinion of the Spiritual Assembly of that city. If they wish, they can collect, publish and distribute them in Washington itself, but other cities have no involvement in this.  AB03974

It has become known that the Kitab-i-Aqdas was published without government permission, and this contradicts the decisive divine text. The perpetrator must surely repent and seek forgiveness. If any book is published without the permission and authorization of the government, it is not permissible for any of the friends of God to purchase it.  AB07769

The purpose of that cablegram is this: That each one of the beloved ones of God (believers in general who may wish to publish any writings or articles, etc.) should first send the same to the Holy Land, to be seen (or examined) and then printed. And this matter is general and this (message) was sent equally to America, Persia, India, and Turkestan.   AB02697

There may be speaking from a text taken from the writings, but it should be written out by the speakers and three days before the meeting be submitted to the believers for approval. The provision of submitting a paper before it shall be read at a meeting refers to newcomers, not to regular speakers at the meeting. It is to guard against chatterboxes.   ABU1714

In a similar manner the scope of the Bahai Publishing Society must be greatly enlarged, so that books and pamphlets may be translated into different languages and published. These short pamphlets and historical reviews, giving the proofs and arguments of the Cause, must be written in accordance with the intellectual and spiritual capacity of each people.  ABU0213

As for what you wrote about scripts, the Nasta'liq script is very acceptable. Therefore, if efforts are made to produce printing type in Nasta'liq script, that would be most suitable. Regarding the translation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, no single person can translate it. A group skilled in both the foreign language and Arabic must translate it with utmost care.   AB11671

Your collection of 'Abdu'l-Baha's talks which you intend to publish is very appropriate. This service will cause your face to shine in the Abha Kingdom and make you the object of praise and gratitude among the friends of East and West. However, utmost care must be taken that they are the exact talks and that no alterations have been made by previous translators.   AB01507


And concerning what you wrote concerning the spiritual beloved, Jinab-i-'Andalib, upon him be the Glory of God and His favors, praise be to God that he is confirmed in serving the Cause of the Beloved of hearts. Jinab-i-Samandar, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God, has repeatedly mentioned him, and in these days his poetry and prose were presented before His presence.  BH00177

Many pages are being sent. There is no time for details. Bandar Jaz is correct, but sometimes in the address of letters errors occur from the pen of the secretary, and 'Abdu'l-Baha never has time to read them a second time except for some letters which are very important. But since the friends do not accept them without seal and signature, therefore they are signed and sealed.  AB10214

I have written for thy sake the Message that thou hast requested. Endeavor thou that this Article may appear in the London Times. If this is impossible, i.e., its publication in the columns of the Times, then publish it by all means in other important periodicals or journals. This question along with this article is very important. Display ye the utmost effort in its publication.  AB09345

As I was reading one of His addresses delivered in America, He said it would be well if all His addresses in that country could be printed in one or two volumes. At present, He declared, they are all scattered and not collected. He called attention to how quickly the Paris and London addresses delivered last year were printed; and this was done through one woman, Lady Blomfield.   ABU0728

"But, whatever writings and articles which the believers may write for the spread of the Cause of God, these they must necessarily send to the Holy Land, in order to be corrected and rectified (or approved of) and then to be returned to them and them published. Before their being corrected here and before securing permission from here, their publication is by no means allowable."   AB03276

That person who published the Kitab-i-Aqdas without the permission and consent of His Imperial Majesty has truly opposed the truth...The definitive divine command is that one must obey the government. This admits of no interpretation and requires no explanation. Among the requirements of obedience is that nothing should be published without the permission and consent of the government.  AB08227

In any case, He commanded the Most Great Branch - may my spirit and being be sacrificed for the most precious dust of His footsteps - to write a commentary on these matters. God willing, it will be sent later, but as He is currently occupied, it has been delayed. The treatise which was previously written concerning the governance of cities is with Mulla 'Ali-Akbar - you will observe it.   BH00624

The letter you had written with the details about the history of Aqa Mirza Jani Kashi and the distortions of the foolish ones - all became clear and known. You should certainly complete those investigations soon and send them confidentially to Jinab-i-Abu'l-Fadl, and likewise when you complete the response that you yourself are writing, send one copy to Abu'l-Fadl and one copy to 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB02586

This service - namely obtaining and sending books - was important because the pen of oppression of every unjust one galloped in the field of rejection against the One of Hidden Favors, and those numerous books took on written form... And you were the cause of those books reaching where needed, and praise be to God, His Holiness Abul-Fadl is engaged in writing, and soon a clear response will be written.   AB11669

Mrs. Ella Cooper from California has repeatedly written that photographs of the historical sites of this Cause in Iran are very much needed. Therefore, you should write everywhere requesting that photographs be taken of these sites and sent to the Holy Land, so that they may be forwarded from the Holy Land to California. Similarly, wherever photographs of early believers exist, these should also be sent.  AB08925

Be very vigilant regarding the Cause, for protecting the Cause is today more necessary than all else. For many times such persons have come specifically to investigate, having no purpose except to discover what is hidden and then object to it after gaining knowledge. In all circumstances be watchful, for the malevolent ones have been and are engaged in sedition. In all conditions, keep your eyes on wisdom.   BH00582

Regarding the journal you wrote about, whether in German or Esperanto is fine, but all discussion must be about the teachings of Baha'u'llah, not beliefs saying "the teachings of Baha'u'llah are such and such." Today the spirit of this age is the teachings of Baha'u'llah, and all rational souls are ready to hear it. Name it "The Sun of Truth" and make its title "The Unity of Mankind, Universal Peace, Universal Religion."  AB02082

I desired to make the corrections myself, but since time was lacking no more than a small portion of the beginning of the treatise could be revised. Its entirety, however, must be amended by thine eminence with gentle words, lest any one be hurt by its perusal, nay, rather, that all breasts may become dilated by its reading, whether they be of those who are in authority or not, inasmuch as the theme is sacred and explicitly recorded in the Book.  AB03866

Great effort must be made to preserve the Tablets and Divine verses. It seems some have been negligent in this matter, as evidenced by the fact that when some friends were arrested in certain lands, their writings were discovered before they themselves were apprehended. In any case, mention of the Land of the Prison, as well as the Tablets, must remain concealed. Complete concealment is what behooveth us, and He is the Preserver, the Helper, the Mighty, the Great.   BH00404

The envelopes which were destined from the beginningless realm to become the bearers of Tablets and the extenders of spirits have in these days arrived through the endeavor of that beloved one and shall attain infinite outpourings. In truth, these envelopes were and are the beloved envelopes of the world and are accounted as one of the divine treasuries, for within them are stored and concealed the pearls of wisdom and utterance and the gems of knowledge and certitude.  BH01295

especially regarding your fair and truth-nurturing article published in The Christian Commonwealth. Indeed, until now no one has written such an article, and from the pen of European authors no such pure and unblemished work about the Cause of Baha'u'llah has appeared. This article will have infinite importance in future centuries. It will be included in all papers, whether histories or literature or religious books. Surely a copy will be found in the home of every learned person  AB04175

Mr. Dreyfus has written from Paris and insisted with utmost emphasis that certain handwritten treatises from insignificant persons like the followers of Yahya are continuously arriving at the public library in Paris, and their purpose is to prevent the greatness of the Cause of God and the penetration of the Word of God and to promote their own vain imaginings. And since there are no handwritten treatises of this Cause in the public library, and since the scholars give more importance to handwritten treatises, they read these insignificant treatises.   AB03091

According to what Jinab-i-Amin mentioned, the honored brother, upon him be the Glory of God, had requested a sample of this lowly servant's unworthy handwriting. Therefore I wrote and sent the Most Holy, Most Mighty Tablet which was revealed on the blessed night of the Birth specifically for them. It was intended to write and send specifically for your honor as well the Most Holy, Most Mighty Tablet which was revealed this year on the Most Great Festival, but due to the abundance of writings and the sudden departure of Jinab-i-Amin as commanded, there was no opportunity whatsoever.  BH00892

Furthermore, regarding what thou didst write about the blessed verse of inheritance, "Blessed art thou for having comprehended that which was revealed from God" - since Jinab-i-Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin, upon him be the Glory of God, the Lord of all worlds, had inquired about inheritance, by command that which was revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas regarding this matter was written specifically for him and sent. Similarly, he had inquired about the law of marriage, and what was revealed regarding this was also written and sent by command. All these passages are revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, and that mighty Book was sent specifically to thee.  BH00197

Furthermore, an exalted Tablet hath been revealed from the heaven of divine bounty, designated as the Most Holy Book. A copy thereof hath been sent to his honor. What more can this evanescent servant say about the tone, majesty and power with which it hath been revealed? God willing, they will become familiar with it and attain unto its hidden and scattered pearls. By the truth of His own Self, the worlds cannot equal it. Following the revelation of several verses concerning ordinances, which at this time it was not expedient to circulate, these were, by command, removed, and markers were placed at each location until such time as it may be fitting to restore them.   BH00856

Sheikh Farajullah translated Ishraqat here with utmost care; nevertheless, I told him to present this translation to the Spiritual Assembly of Egypt for your review. After the approval of the Spiritual Assembly of Egypt, it should be published. This is for the sake of order and regulation, because if it is not conditional upon the approval of the Spiritual Assembly, any person will translate and publish and distribute a treatise from the Tablets, and it is even possible that outsiders will undertake this task and there will remain no order and regulation. But when it is made conditional upon the approval of the Spiritual Assembly, if someone from among outsiders translates and publishes a Tablet, it will not gain circulation.  AB08330

As for the matter of publishing books: those previously published, such as the treatises of Abu'l-Fadl and Mr. Remey's treatises, as well as beneficial treatises and books authored and published by some of the friends, and likewise the translations of the Book of Certitude, Tarazat, Words of Wisdom, Glad-Tidings, Ishraqat, Hidden Words, and Seven Valleys, and also Mr. Remey's new treatise written about the twelve principles - these may be published and distributed whenever necessary. But other treatises besides these, or newly composed works, must be carefully examined and investigated in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar gathering by blessed souls among the friends. If they unanimously consider its publication appropriate, it may be published and distributed. Otherwise, let it wait until the way opens to send it to the Holy Land for correction.  AB03401

This matter is contingent upon consultation. In these days, wisdom dictates against printing, for should the sacred revealed Books proliferate in that city, it would surely provoke an outcry from the ignorant of the earth. Though beneficial for those possessed of true vision and spiritual hearing, such souls are few in number in any city, while most would rise up crying "O the religion!" without thought or consideration of consequences. Previously, Habibullah, upon him be My glory, intended to print a few limited copies and permission was granted, but only on condition that it not exceed bounds or open the gates of tumult. For nearly twenty years the Book of Certitude was printed without verification, yet until last year there was hesitation in sending it abroad, for the opposers and deniers await any pretext to create mischief and kindle the fire of sedition.   BH00959

The article that thou hast written was perused. There is no doubt that thou hast written this article through the Confirmations of the Kingdom, because most of its contents indicated the assistance of the invisible Inspirations. Although its value is not known at the present time, yet in the future it will become evident and manifest. There are many authors and their written works are circulated in all parts of the world but this article of thine is the crown of all the works, because the works of others deal with the material world while this composition belongs to the world of the Kingdom. They are earthly melodies but this is a heavenly harmony. After the lapse of ages and cycles all the works will be forgotten but this article will day by day circulate more widely, gaining in fame and importance and in future periods and centuries it will be on the lips of men.  AB04179

O Abu'l-Fada'il!... Whatever information you have regarding the history of Mirza Jani the martyr, please write it down. AB12006

They tampered with the contents of the history of Haji Mirza Jani by removing some of its passages and inserting others. They sent it to the libraries of London and Paris and through such falsehood induced him [Browne] to translate and publish the document. In order to achieve his own selfish desires, he had it printed. ABU3130

The matter of the reply to Browne is important and takes precedence over other writings. In Tehran they have searched for copies of Haji Mirza Jani's history - it has become clear that it was altered, therefore it was written that they should send the details to your presence. God willing, they will send them. Whatever effort you expend in this regard will certainly be fitting. AB04565

Regarding what you wrote about answering Edward Browne's uncertainties - this is an important matter requiring a response. You must certainly strive with all your might to make clear that this history of Haji Mirza Jani has been poisoned and distorted, and that the Azalis conspired with Edward Browne to introduce these calumnies and intrigues. In any case, the utmost effort is urgently needed. AB06329

The letter you had written with the details about the history of Aqa Mirza Jani Kashi and the distortions of the foolish ones - all became clear and known. You should certainly complete those investigations soon and send them confidentially to Jinab-i-Abu'l-Fadl, and likewise when you complete the response that you yourself are writing, send one copy to Abu'l-Fadl and one copy to 'Abdu'l-Baha. AB02586

Regarding the Nuqtatu'l-Kaf and other books written in objection and dispute - comprehensive answers to all have been given and will soon be published. Therefore this book has no validity, as its very contents are clear evidence, especially since it has been altered. Among its claims is that His Honor Aqa Mirza Muhammad Ali from Mazandaran was superior to the Bab, when in fact he was but one servant among the servants of the Bab.  AB12151

The history of Haji Mirza Jani is fundamentally exaggerated, as he considered the station of His Holiness the Quddus to be above the station of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab], and counted himself among the sacred points, considering himself the Point of Kaf in relation to the Primal Point. From examination of the history itself it becomes clear that it is baseless and written according to his own feelings, and this point is sufficient to show that its foundation is metaphorical not real, and furthermore it is distorted. And in a book containing the main points noted by Abu'l-Fadl, this matter is detailed.  AB12112

But the calamity is this: in these days the shameless community has newly contrived a deception and set in motion an intrigue and conspiracy. They have fabricated a historical book in the name of Haji Mirza Jani, the martyr, and some time ago sent it to the library in Paris. And Edward Browne, the Englishman, who during his journey to Persia was surrounded by the shameless ones, who showed him the utmost servility, and who were in constant communication with him -- they resorted to every means to encourage and incite him against the Cause of God....  Now it has become evident -- that is, the shameless followers of Yahya have prompted Browne to translate that book which they themselves, with consummate skill, had compiled and put together in the name of Aqa Mirza Jani as a history of the Cause, and had sent to the library in Paris. They have dictated and insinuated to him an introduction, so that he might publish and disseminate that introduction and that fabricated history in Persian and English. Now that book has been published and disseminated. From beginning to end, following the instructions and insinuations of the followers of Yahya, it has been written completely contrary to the facts, so that it might cause a distortion of minds and confusion of thoughts. The passages of the book itself contradict one another, and likewise some of its contents are contrary to his earlier work.... Haji Mirza Jani the martyr had written several historical sections, incomplete, which were with the nephew of the honored Zabih, Aqa Muhammad-Rida. It was apparently in Haji Mirza Jani's own handwriting. By whatever means possible, obtain those sections - if possible the original copy, and if not possible, send a transcript of them. In the text of this introduction from abroad, it is written that only one copy of this history was found, and that in the Paris library. Glory be to God! Despite all the friends at that time being extremely thirsty for the history of this Cause, not one copy was found in Iran. From this alone it is clear that that Paris history is fabricated.   AB00101

As for the matter of the Nuqtatu'l-Kaf, they have published this and distributed it throughout the world. If, as Browne suggests, its publication in Chihrinama would yield some benefit to you, I am not willing to prevent the Chihrinama office from gaining that benefit, since repeated publication in newspapers does not result in any new promotion. People are of two kinds: one kind investigates truth - these become more steadfast and firm through such publications. The other kind harbor extreme hatred and enmity without cause - we have shown and continue to show them the utmost kindness, but due to their enmity they have no need to read such papers. Therefore, publishing such papers is redundant. Thus, as Browne has indicated, I will not prevent your office from the benefits. I also state with utmost sincerity that these articles, whether in treatises or newspapers, will ultimately cause disgrace and disappointment to their authors and transmitters. This Nuqtatu'l-Kaf is pure fabrication - the late Haji Mirza Jani has no knowledge of this history. The history itself is clear evidence that this is contrived. AB12194


Thou art not like some of the feeble ones who at first make a great noise but later become shaken by the suggestions of the heedless ones, like Edward Browne. This person wrote a book - though the actual writer was a follower of Yahya - yet it was published in his name; that is, whatever they suggested, he wrote. Similarly, a distorted history under the name of the late Aqa Mirza Jani was printed and published. Now, praise be to God, the friends have found the correct copy and the distortion has become clear and evident. The friends are engaged in writing various responses with clear proofs and evident arguments, not false accounts, and these will soon be published. AB10460

And regarding refuting the external fabrications and proving the alteration of the book [Nuqtatu'l-Kaf], you must render a distinguished service at the Divine Threshold. Your honor, along with all the capable friends, must unite on this matter. Include Jinab-i-Samandar as a partner in this matter so that everyone's knowledge can be gathered and a healing, sufficient response can be written. This matter must be carried out with utmost speed. Jinab-i-Mirza Abu'l-Fadl is prepared and will soon complete the response. Therefore, quickly convey your complete knowledge about the alteration of Mirza Jani's book to Jinab-i-Mirza Abu'l-Fadl.  AB03969

