
Should the leaders of government and nation manifest spiritual virtues, goodly deeds, and kindly words, the lights of justice would encompass all the earth, and all would dwell in perfect tranquility within the pavilion of security and peace. The foundation of the security and welfare of nations rests upon two pillars: reward and punishment. Every sovereign must implement these two principles; indeed it is essential.   BH00920

The Great Being saith: The structure of world stability and order hath been reared upon, and will continue to be sustained by, the twin pillars of reward and punishment. Take heed, O concourse of the rulers of the world! There is no force on earth that can equal in its conquering power the force of justice and wisdom. I, verily, affirm that there is not, and hath never been, a host more mighty than that of justice and wisdom.  BH00140

Should an official, on the contrary, think that all responsibility for his actions must end with his earthly life, knowing and believing nothing of Divine favors and a spiritual kingdom of joy, he will lack the incentive to just dealing, and the inspiration to destroy oppression and unrighteousness. When a ruler knows that his judgments will be weighed in a balance by the Divine Judge, and that if he be not found wanting he will come into the Celestial Kingdom and that the light of the Heavenly Bounty will shine upon him, then will he surely act with justice and equity. Behold how important it is that Ministers of State should be enlightened by religion!  ABU0253

"Reward and punishment are the basic pillars of the world". Thus the Houses of Justice, in addition to their administrative tasks, also have to act in a judicial capacity. Equally important is the setting-up and supervision of a school system and the just care of the poor, and social welfare.  ABU0375

The tabernacle of world order is upheld upon two pillars: reward and punishment. Such matters pertain to the monarchs of the age. They are the manifestations of God's power and the dawning-places of His divine majesty.   BH01118

People are weak and deceitful, helpless and crafty. They must be held through fear and hope - that is, no soul should despair of forgiveness for mistakes, yet should fear committing sin and rebellion, so that if they fall short they may have hope of forgiveness, and if thoughts of corruption and sedition cross their minds they may fear being called to account. AB12528

Vengeance is reprehensible and takes place according to one's self and desire. This is a penalty that the selfish ones inflict for the love or purpose of retaliation. Chastisement however, if happens according to divine law in absolute fairness and justice will be rewarding and the cause of good.  AB00821

Punishment and recompense are the cause of world order.  ABU3284

Had all the peoples of the world hearkened to the Word of Unity as it deserveth to be hearkened to, all would have turned unto God, detached from all else. The deceptive conditions and allusions of the world have debarred the nations from the most great bounty. Reward and punishment are two mirrors reflecting good and evil deeds which are manifested therein.  BH00615

Although people have no right to exact vengeance, reward and punishment must be carried out, for these are the two pillars upon which the canopy of world order rests.  ABU3711

the prohibitions on murder, theft, treachery, falsehood, hypocrisy, and iniquity are based on reason: Every rational mind can grasp that these are all vile and reprehensible. For if you merely prick a man with a thorn he will cry out in pain: How well must he realize then that murder, according to reason, is vile and reprehensible. And were he to commit such a crime, he would be held accountable for it whether the prophetic message had reached him or not, for reason itself grasps the reprehensible character of this deed. Thus, when such a person commits such base actions, he will assuredly be held to account.  AB00779

Aforetime this most exalted Word descended from the Supreme Pen: The tabernacle of world order is upheld by two pillars - reward and punishment. BH00542

As to your question regarding reward and punishment, and the fact that someone needs to execute punishment and that in itself is a punishable act and it will thus continue, know that there are two types of punishment. One is vengeance and the other is chastisement. Vengeance is reprehensible and takes place according to one's self and desire. This is a penalty that the selfish ones inflict for the love or purpose of retaliation. Chastisement however, if happens according to divine law in absolute fairness and justice will be rewarding and the cause of good. Because in doing such, that person has executed the divine ordinances and not one's selfish desires. AB00821

Consider how many prisons and dungeons and places of punishment and chastisement are prepared for mankind, that through these coercive means souls may be prevented from committing grievous crimes. Yet this coercion and punishment leads to the increase of evil character, and the desired result is not achieved as it should be.  AB02095

In the book (Kitubal-Akdas) it is specified that such a one shall be killed. If he is sentenced to life imprisonment this is worse than death, for every day he dies... The willful murderer should be killed... They must say that our belief is that the murderer, who willfully kills, must be killed. This is the command of Baha'o'llah. According to the Kitab-ul-Akdas, they must be killed.  ABU0298

You do not know how the murdered soul suffers. If you could know and reflect, you would say that the murderer should be killed. It is impossible to protect society unless he is punished. It is not for revenge. God alone has the right to revenge. This punishment is for an example, so that others may not do likewise. Everyone who murders should be killed by the government. This is for punishment, not for revenge.  ABU0298

There are two kinds of retributive actions: one is revenge and retaliation and the other, punishment and requital. An individual has no right to seek revenge, but the body politic has the right to punish the criminal. Such punishment is intended to dissuade and deter others from committing similar crimes. It is for the protection of the rights of man and does not constitute revenge, for revenge is that inner gratification that results from returning like for like.   AB00090

In the conduct of life, man is actuated by two main motives: The Hope for Reward and The Fear of Punishment. This hope and this fear must consequently be greatly taken into account by those in authority who have important posts under Government. Their business in life is to consult together for the framing of laws, and to provide for their just administration. The tent of the order of the world is raised and established on the two pillars of Reward and Retribution.  ABU0253

Amidst great lamentation and weeping, for we are told that Mrs. Hoagg was in tears all the time Abdul-Baha was speaking on the subject, we are told that Abdul-Baha upholds capital punishment, and said that if a man took a life he should pay for that life with his own life. When his attention was called to the suffering endured by a person awaiting such punishment, He said, that if such a person was really penitent, by that True Penitence he redeemed his soul. In other words, through that real penitence he saved his soul.  ABU1530

Should the leaders of government and nation manifest spiritual virtues, goodly deeds, and kindly words, the lights of justice will encompass all the earth, and all will dwell in perfect tranquility within the pavilion of security and peace. The foundation of the security and welfare of nations rests upon two pillars: reward and punishment. Every sovereign must implement these two principles; indeed it is essential.   BH00920

Some maintain that by wisdom is meant the divine laws revealed in the Book. Each group, according to their understanding, has presented proofs and evidence for each of what has been mentioned, which if detailed would add to weariness. Glory be to Him Who spoke this supreme word: "The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God," for the fear and awe of God restraineth man from whatsoever causeth abasement and degradation of human station, and aideth him in that which leadeth to elevation and glory. The wise man avoideth shameful deeds, for he beholdeth punishment in their wake. The pavilion of world order is upheld upon two pillars: Reward and Punishment.  BH00013
