As for the matter of the Covenant, steadfastness in the Covenant means obedience - that no one should say "my opinion is this," rather they must obey whatever proceeds from the pen and tongue of the Center of the Covenant. AB03974

The unity of the Covenant is what causes the unity of the horizons  AB02496

The call is the call of the Covenant and the melody is the melody of unity.  AB08975

Therefore, today we must close the doors of dispute and prevent the causes of contention. This is impossible except that all follow the Interpreter and obey the appointed Center of the Covenant, meaning they must hold fast to his explicit utterance and cling to the clarity of his exposition, such that their tongues become translators of his tongue and their pens narrators of his words. They must not speak a word more or less, nor add any interpretation, allusion, or explanation, so that all may be gathered beneath the shade of the Word of Unity and assembled under the banner of Oneness.   AB00165

Thanks be unto the Most Great Unity that thou hast been gathered beneath the shade of the Tree of the Covenant  AB09204

this ancient covenant and mighty testament has been mentioned, so that the word of unity might shine forth and appear in all ranks and stations in the form of oneness  AB01768

make them victorious over all nations and peoples, that Thy word of unity may be exalted throughout all regions and the lights of the Sun of the Covenant may shine forth  AB03073

"Therefore attention must be paid to the appointed Center so that Baha'i unity may be preserved, otherwise in one year the Baha'is would be divided into a thousand sects."   AB00601

The power of the Covenant firmly establishes and preserves Baha'i unity; otherwise the Baha'i Cause would be completely disrupted, each soul would find a particular opinion, and the Cause of God would be totally obliterated and destroyed.  AB03629

The protection of the Cause of God and the unity of the people of Baha are dependent on firmness in the Covenant of God and adherence to the writings of the Expounder of the divine verses. Apart from this, every hope will end in despair, and every remark will lead to toil and abasement.  ABU3726

If the preservation of Baha'i unity were possible through any other power, I would summon all to it. But consider: can Baha'i unity be preserved by any power except the power of the Covenant? Therefore, we counsel all to hold fast to the Covenant for the sole purpose of preserving Baha'i unity.  AB00838

The Covenant is like an ocean that preserves Baha'i unity, and these souls are like foam - they make temporary movements but like Judas Iscariot and Judas' helpers and those who agreed with Judas, they will soon be forgotten like the foam of the sea. But the ocean of the Covenant remains established, for it preserves Baha'i unity. Today the Lord of Hosts is the protector of the Covenant, the powers of the Kingdom guard the Covenant, heavenly souls serve the Covenant, and celestial angels promote the Covenant.  AB00093

Today the dynamic power of the world of existence is the power of the Covenant which like unto an artery pulsateth in the body of the contingent world and protecteth Baha'i unity. The purpose of the Blessed Beauty in entering into this Covenant and Testament was to gather all existent beings around one point so that the thoughtless souls, who in every cycle and generation have been the cause of dissension, may not undermine the Cause. He hath, therefore, commanded that whatever emanateth from the Centre of the Covenant is right and is under His protection and favour, while all else is error.  AB04657

And that instantaneously effective compound is the Covenant, whose sanctifying lights shine forth upon the horizons. The specifically designated Center of Authority was established, the clear and manifest Interpreter of verses was made known, the Remover of differences was mentioned  AB08169

We praise and thank Him for His grace, His generosity, and His beneficence, and for having made clear to us His straight path, expanded for us the upright way, given us a light by which we are guided in the darkest night, ordained for us the mighty Covenant, and clearly established through His Supreme Pen the appointed Center, firm as an impregnable fortress, the Interpreter of His verses, the Expositor of His words, the Solver of complex problems, the Remover of doubts of both past and present, the Eliminator of differences from all directions.   AB00123

The Blessed Beauty has shut the door to such differences. He has referred all matters to the House of Justice that everyone may strictly obey whatsoever that Body will prescribe.  ABU2731

Praise be to God, in the Sacred Cause all these doors are closed, for a specific reference point has been designated, and that specific reference point is the solver of all problems and the remover of all differences.   AB02215

The Blessed Beauty entered into this Covenant for obedience and not for opposition. Were it not for the removal of vain imaginings and the eradication of differences, I should not have asserted that I am 'the Center of the Covenant'.  ABU1745

But Baha'u'llah has shut the door to such differences. By His appointing the Expounder of the Holy Word, by setting up the Institution of the House of Justice, which is the legislative body elected by the people, and by enjoining non-interference in matters of belief and conscience, Baha'u'llah has barred the way that would lead to disruption in the Faith.   ABU2563

firmness in the Covenant wards off differences   ABU3583

If all the world should combine to overthrow the Covenant, it could not succeed.   ABU2880

Now the Blessed Beauty has designated one point so that no differences would remain.  ABU2452

All eyes must turn their attention to the Center of the Covenant while the presence of the Covenant is among us.   ABU3355

To turn to the Covenant is to obey the Blessed Beauty which is a cause of gathering together the people of Baha.   ABU3131

Do not let go of Baha'i unity, and Baha'i unity is not possible except through holding fast to the divine Covenant.  AB00602

Ye have not let the Blessed Beauty slip from your minds, to fade unremembered. Ye have striven to keep the Word whole and one.   AB04432

For firmness in the Covenant will preserve the unity of the religion of God and the foundation of the religion of God will not be shaken.  AB05467

Baha'o'llah appointed a Covenant in order to ward off dissensions, so that no one should give his own opinion, but that the Center should be referred to.  ABU1869

Today the dynamic power of the world of existence is the power of the Covenant which like unto an artery pulsateth in the body of the contingent world and protecteth Baha'i unity.  AB04657

had it not been for the power of the Covenant after the ascension of the Ancient Beauty, it is evident what the people would have done...They would have destroyed the divine standard.  ABU2972

The Blessed Beauty has left no room for any one to weaken (the Cause). He entered into this Covenant to preserve the Baha'i Unity so that no one might say anything on his own behalf.   ABU0428

That brave lion is the Lion of the Covenant who with one movement caused that creature filled with hatred to fall to the ground, and the Blessed Tree remained established in its place   AB06682

God forbid that if any weakness or languor should occur in the Center of the Covenant, how would Baha'i unity be preserved and how would the teachings of the Blessed Beauty be promoted?   AB02573

The believers must realize that the Power of the Covenant is for the protection of the Cause of God, the promulgation of the religion of God and the brotherhood of the East and the West.   ABU2088

Baha'u'llah appointed a Covenant to ward off dissensions: so that no one can have his own opinion--so that the Center can be referred to. There were dissensions in the time of Christ because there was no Center.  AB09744

in every age and dispensation, for the sake of preserving the word of unity and protecting the Cause of God from disruption, and for the unity of all souls sheltering beneath the tree of divine mercy, a command was given  AB01768

Were it not for the protecting power of the Covenant to guard the impregnable fort of the Cause of God there would arise among the Bahais, in a day, a thousand different sects as was the case in former ages, but in this Blessed Dispensation, for the sake of the permanency of the Cause of God and the avoidance of dissension amongst the people of God, the Blessed Beauty (May my soul be a sacrifice to Him), has through the Supreme Pen written the Covenant and Testament; He appointed a Center, the Exponent of the Book and the Annuller of disputes. Whatever is written or said by Him is conformable to the Truth and under the protection of the Blessed Beauty. He is the infallible. The express purpose of the last Will and Testament is to set aside disputes from the world.   AB01653

For by what means can Baha'i unity be preserved? Is it through the nonsensical utterances of some? God forbid! The Book of the Covenant is not a tradition - it is from the Supreme Pen and was revealed solely to preserve Baha'i unity   AB02519

Either one must say that the Blessed Beauty was, God forbid, ignorant and made a mistake in commanding all to obey the Center of the Covenant and explicitly confining the interpretation of the Book to the Center of the Covenant, or one must obey and turn to Him.   AB01409

Consider what the power of the Covenant has done! It was an impossibility for a Zoroastrian to unite with a Siyyid and a mulla with a Jew. And for these to assemble with a Christian was an absolute impossibility. But the power of the Covenant has even so gathered them that they are accounted as one spirit. Although the bodies are numerous, the spirit is one.  ABU2270

We are all under the shadow of Baha'u'llah and in the shade of His tent of covenant and testament. Therefore separation has no effect. The essence is heart-felt love which is always with us and is eternal. We shall all gather in the divine realm, the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah. That meeting is everlasting.   ABU0754

Now is the time for the field of action and testing of men, for the mighty edifice of God's Cause rests upon the pillar of the Covenant and Testament, and the heaven of God's religion is illumined and radiant through the star of the Covenant. God forbid that if some ungrateful person should assault this pillar, not a single nail would remain to uphold the divine pavilion and the merciful tabernacle, not a single lamp would remain lit in the divine gathering. The House of God would be buried from its very foundation, the Cycle would become futile and the laws nullified.... Therefore in every street and plain that you pass through, cry out: "This Covenant is the Covenant of Alast, and this Testament is the Ancient Testament! The armies of the Kingdom of God assist this Covenant, and the hosts of the Concourse on High protect this foundation. It is the continuous and enduring ray of the Sun of Truth and the brilliant lamp of the gathering of the Divine Unity. It is the strong rope and the manifest light. It is the firm handle and the fruit of the blessed tree. It is the Preserved Tablet and the Written Book and the Outstretched Parchment. It is the Covenant - the Covenant! It is the Testament - the Testament! It is mentioned in all the scriptures and books, and recorded in all the scrolls of the ancients and tablets of the latter ones. It is the ruler of the most great crisis and the balance of the Day of Reckoning. It is the Ark of Salvation and the refuge on the Day of Return. It is the holy fragrances of the Lord God and the life-giving breezes from the gardens of the Creator. It is the mighty fortress and the strong shelter. It is the firm pillar and the essence of all books and scriptures of the Old and New Testament. Blessed is he who holds fast to it, clings to it, stands firm in it, whose heart is strengthened by its verses, and who is gathered beneath its banners." AB00988

The Blessed Beauty has shut the door to such differences. He has referred all matters to the House of Justice that everyone may strictly obey whatsoever that Body will prescribe. Even if the Baha'is were to split up into two groups, 'Abdu'l-Baha has warned, each forming a House of Justice of its own, one in opposition to the other, both would be false.  ABU2731


First of all, the Blessed Beauty made this Covenant so that there should remain no differences. If there remain any disagreements amongst the friends, or differences as to the meaning of the Book - in whatever way there may arise any difference, Baha'u'llah says explicitly, 'turn to him (i.e., to the Center of the Covenant), whatever he says is correct; and after him to the House of Justice.' What is this for? It is to dispel differences.  ABU0362

For the unity of the Baha'i Faith cannot be preserved by anything except through the Covenant. If the unity of the Baha'i Faith could have been preserved by anything else, surely the Blessed Beauty would have commanded it... In brief, the unity of the Baha'i Faith cannot be preserved except through the divine Covenant. Today the motivating force in the body of the world is the Covenant. If the Covenant is neglected, by what power can it move?  AB00224

This Divine Covenant is the Institution of the Lord. The Blessed Perfection in all the Tablets, Books, epistles and supplication has begged confirmation for and has praised and commended those who are firm in this Covenant and the Testament and has asked the wrath of God and woe and desolation and His Vengeance unto the violators. For firmness in this Covenant will preserve the unity of the religion of God and the Foundation of the religion of God will not be shaken.  AB01850

Among the distinctive features of this Dispensation of Baha'u'llah, which did not exist in previous dispensations, is that Baha'u'llah left no room for discord, for in His blessed day He took a covenant and testament by the pen of the Most High, designated the reference point for all, explicitly appointed the Interpreter of the Book, and closed the doors of interpretation. All must thank God that in this blessed Dispensation He has given rest to all and left no room for hesitation.  AB01184

He hath subverted the foundations of discord and raised the edifice of divine favour. He hath kindled the light of guidance and, through the grace of the Abha Kingdom, turned the world into a garden of delights. He hath made manifest the Eternal Covenant and hath appeared, cup in hand, at the banquet of Revelation. He hath raised a mighty call and enabled every mindful soul to hear the celestial strains of the Covenant, so that the malicious might not breach the impregnable stronghold of the Cause or the ignorant taint its soft-flowing waters with the mire of idle fancies.   AB00121

It is clear and evident that every mighty cause in existence must face intense opposition, and every sturdy ship must encounter massive waves. Similarly, such a Covenant will find violators of utmost strength, and such an ancient Testament will face opponents of greatest power. The vaster the ocean, the mightier its tempests; the firmer the edifice, the more exposed it is to the force of hurricanes. Today, the balance of the Cause of God, the protection and preservation of the Religion of God, the well-being of the loved ones of God, the salvation of the servants of God, the safeguarding of the Word of God, and the diffusion of the fragrances of God are all dependent and conditional upon firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament of God. Should the slightest weakness and laxity occur, all matters would be disrupted and disordered. AB00292


"The friends must always act according to the apparent meaning of the divine texts and all be united and in agreement, otherwise each soul will interpret the divine verses according to their own desire and become the cause of differences"  ABU2144

True Religion has nothing to do with human imagination. God's Will is independent of human opinion. Personal ideas and mere human prejudice are the great obstacles to spiritual growth. For instance, some difference of opinion arises between two believers in God. Each expects the Lord to support his view of the question. The Word of God is perfect and arbitrary in Its perfection. When there is difference of view there is absence of the Spirit. The Word is the only Standard of Truth. Discord and disagreement are impossible among those who adhere to the Manifestation and sever themselves from human opinion.' There are no ' heads' in this Cause; all are 'Servants.'  ABU2646

the sincere belief of 'Abdu'l-Baha is this: that the Primal Point, His Holiness the Exalted One - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - is the Manifestation of Supreme Lordship and the Herald of the Beauty of Abha and the Sun of Truth and the Essence of Singleness and the Revelation of Divinity, the Most Great Luminary of the higher world, the Beauty of Abha, and 'Abdu'l-Baha is the weak, mortal servant of those two peerless Stars. This is the essence of my reality, the substance of my being, and the very nature of my identity. And whosoever does not believe this has wandered in the wilderness of vain imaginings. O loved ones of God! What is the belief of this servant must be believed by all, and they must not engage in any interpretation or explanation whatsoever. Whatever is explicitly stated should be what is believed, so that the mighty stronghold of the Cause of God may be protected from the calamity of disagreement and all may become of one mind, one thought, and one belief. AB02932

