Work unfalteringly for the emancipation of the Oriental women.   ABU2935

Although thou wert among women, He made thee the pride of men   AB07201

women are like men in both physical and spiritual feelings  AB03194

This is the age of woman... In this age of spiritual awakening, the world has entered upon the path of progress   ABU3028

In this Bahai dispensation His Holiness Baha'u'llah has set a brilliant crown upon the head of women, whose brilliant jewels will shine and gleam throughout all ages and cycles. Whereas in the former time they were oppressed, now they have attained the greatest station of honor. Whereas formerly they were disappointed, now they are hopeful. While in the past they were deprived, praise be to God, they have taken a goodly portion; having been weak, praise be to God they have become strong; having been ignorant, praise be to God they have become wise.   ABU0483

make the women's gatherings the pride of men's assemblies  AB04572

In the world of phenomena the co-ordinate elements of male and female may be compared to the two eyes of man. Should one eye be defective undoubtedly the sight of the other eye would be affected, because sympathetic co-operation is necessary for complete usefulness. The world of humanity is possessed of two wings. One wing is represented by man, the other by woman. When one wing of a bird is defective its flight is hindered, but when both wings are equal in strength and capability then the flight of the bird is made easy.  ABU0067

Women must go on advancing; they must extend their knowledge of science, literature, history, for the perfection of humanity.   ABU0726

Regarding women's suffrage, this is a political issue and I am detached from all political matters   AB03499

I asked why, given that women and men are equal in this Cause, all the addresses in the Hidden Words are to "Son." In response He [Abdu'l-Baha] said that it includes both, like Bani Israel, Bani Hasham, Bani Umayya, Bani Yafith, Bani Sam, and Bani Abbas - this is an Eastern convention.  ABU1494

Look at the vegetable and the animal worlds. The palm which carries the fruit is the tree most prized by the date grower. The Arab knows that for a long journey the mare has the longest wind. For her greater strength and fierceness, the lioness is more feared by the hunter than the lion.   ABU2700

From the beginning of creation until now, in no age or cycle were gatherings of the maidservants of the All-Merciful arranged, nor was the promotion of teaching lessons established among them. This is among the special characteristics of this mighty cycle and blessed century. Surely strive with utmost effort in perfecting this association and increasing knowledge of the realities of meanings and mysteries, so that perhaps, God willing, in a short time women will attain the station of men and become the leaders of the learned ones. They will open eloquent tongues and demonstrate persuasive utterance, and in all regions they will shine forth like the lamps of guidance. In some cases, women have a wonderful capacity - they are quick to be attracted and intense in their enthusiasm.   AB00616

"In all questions which concern the welfare of a nation, is not the woman's view as important as the man's, if one would get a just and true consideration of all sides of that question? Therefore I am in favour of votes for women on every subject."   ABU2697

In this Most Great Cycle and in this age and century of the Ancient King, human limitations have been lifted and the laws of the worlds of existence have been abrogated and nullified. Masculinity and femininity, manliness and wisdom are not determined by beard and mustache and mane and fur, but rather by aspiration and power, by knowledge and steadfastness and firmness, by enthusiasm and attraction. How many ladies of the bridal chambers were raised up with greater power than the mightiest men, and how many men were gathered under the veil of degradation and shame.   AB05526

There are some who believe that men are superior to women and base their argument on the blessed verse "Men are maintainers and protectors of women", but this servant is certain as the manifest light that this is not a universal truth. Many are the women in this day who are firm in the Covenant and are luminous and gem-like seashells of perfections, while many men are uncertain in their faith and are as the worthless clay at the bottom of the seas of vices. Thus, excellence depends not on whether one is male or female but rather on the bounties of the Most Great Name  AB08304


Women in Persia were treated badly in former times by the Muhammadans. When speaking evil of a man, they would say, 'He is just like a woman.' When they wished to lower a man's pride, they would say, 'He is a woman, not a man.' In this Day see what great firmness and strength women are showing for God. The way to spiritual attainment in this Dispensation will be made more and more easy for women, for they are more devoted and zealous in this Cause than men. How many women are higher than men in moral and spiritual development! How much more eloquent in the Cause of God! Women are held in great honor in this Day.  ABU0537

The establishment of a women's assemblage for the promotion of knowledge is entirely acceptable, but discussions must be confined to educational matters. The individual women should, today, follow a course of action which will be the cause of eternal glory to all womankind, so that all women will be illumined. Now the world of women should be a spiritual world, not a political one, so that it will be radiant. I am endeavouring, with Baha'u'llah's confirmations and assistance, so to improve the world of the handmaidens that all will be astonished. This progress is intended to be in spirituality, in virtues, in human perfections and in divine knowledge.   AB00677


This subject is pregnant with far-reaching results and when it is directed in a benefitting manner, such women will be trained in that Assembly that the whole world will be astonished by their eloquent speeches and fluent utterances, and they will silence and discomfort the orators of the East and the West. Today the women in the West lead the men in the services of the Cause, summon the people under the shade of the Blessed Perfection, and loosen their tongues in eloquent lectures, delivery of wonderful proofs and the elucidation of new arguments.  AB09113

In this Dispensation, when the Sun of Truth hath shed its radiance from the Sign of the Lion upon the horizons of the world, divine justice hath so guided all things that many women have been raised up with such power, might, steadfastness and courage as men possess. Indeed, they have snatched the palm of victory from most men in the arena, and in recognition of the Beauty of the All-Merciful they have spoken forth in such wise as to leave the minds of those endowed with knowledge dumbfounded and amazed.  AB07891

Masculinity and femininity pertain to the soul, not to the body - to the heart, not to clay. For these two physical attributes are metaphorical, while their spiritual reality is truth. For we observe that a male person with an elephant-like physique can be as lowly, contemptible and weak as an ant, while behind the veil of chastity and purity, a female can be the epitome of strength and power - the former enslaved by self and passion, the latter noble through reason and restraint; the former sinful and the latter virtuous.   AB06730

In this cycle there were men who arose through a divine power and who shone forth as the sun from the dawning-point of holiness; and, likewise, there appeared certain women who became side by side with men. The expression which you quote, "Every woman who is directed to the guidance of God in this great age, will surpass men in every respect," signified that, in this age, certain women will appear who will surpass some men. It does not mean that they will surpass all the men who have given their lives as sacrifices in this Cause.  AB00511

From the beginning of existence until the Promised Day men retained superiority over women in every respect. It is revealed in the Qur'an: "Men have superiority over women." But in this wondrous Dispensation, the supreme outpouring of the Glorious Lord became the cause of manifest achievements by women. This is a bounteous characteristic of this wondrous Age which hath granted strength to the weaker sex and hath bestowed masculine might upon womanhood.   AB05189

Erelong will women in every field keep pace with the men. Until now, in Persia, the means for women's advancement were non-existent. But now, God be thanked, ever since the dawning of the Morn of Salvation, they have been going forward day by day. The hope is that they will take the lead in virtues and attainments, in closeness to the Court of Almighty God, in faith and certitude--and that the women of the East will become the envy of the women of the West.  AB04966

No nation ever advances beyond the point of progress to which its women have attained; the two legs belong to the one body. Or one may think of humanity as a bird which soars into the heights by means of two wings, the male wing and the female wing. If one of these two wings be fettered humankind can make no real progress upwards. As long as woman is prevented from attaining her highest possible, so long will man be unable to attain the greatness that might be his.  ABU2951

Now it is necessary that you encourage and urge that the teaching gathering for women be multiplied, and there is no doubt that this first gathering that has been formed will be the cause of establishing great gatherings. They must be so trained that in a short time maidens and women will arise to teach the Cause of the One True God with perfect eloquence and fluency, and through the power of proof render men of all nations helpless and wanting.   AB04074

In the Law of God, women and men are equal in all rights, except for membership in the Universal House of Justice, since according to the explicit Text of the Book its president and members must be men. However, in all other assemblies, such as the Assembly for the Construction of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, the Teaching Assembly, and the Spiritual Assembly, as well as philanthropic and scientific gatherings, women and men share equally in all rights.  AB02507

O handmaid of God! Observe the mystery of power, how through the grace and bounty of the Ancient Beauty, women have placed the crown of manliness upon their heads, while men who remained veiled have cast the veil of womanhood over their faces. Those women, like fierce lions and raging elephants, have charged forth into the arena of divine knowledge, while these men, like the followers of the Anti-Christ, have crept into the pit of ignorance.  AB08523

In this wondrous dispensation in which the Ancient Beauty and the Manifest Light -- may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones -- hath risen from the horizon of age-old hopes, women have assumed the attributes of men in showing forth steadfastness in the Cause of God, and revealing the heroism and might of fearless men. They invaded the arena of mystic knowledge and hoisted aloft the banner on the heights of certitude.  AB07882

In the past, they used to prevent girls from learning to read and write. In fact, these things were considered so sinful that should a woman know how to read or write she would not be desirable for marriage. But afterwards, through the influence of the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, the friends of God devoted most of their time to training their children. Now, they have established schools in Persia for teaching girls.   ABU1807

To women, especially those working for the uplifting of their sex and the redemption of the children, Abdul Baha had a special message. "Sixty years ago," said he, "Baha Ullah taught the perfect equality of the sexes, essential difference in sphere, in point of view and service to their joint humanity, but each like two pillars supporting the arch of life, the necessary complement one of the other."  ABU2811

In this cycle, the world of women is in tumult and commotion from the outpourings of the Abha Beauty, and intoxicated and bewildered from the wine of favors. Day by day they are advancing. Soon you will observe that among women, souls will arise so attracted that they will cause amazement. They will become brilliant lamps and speakers of the proofs and evidences of the Lord of Bounties.   AB04878

In receiving the bounties from the cloud of the Lord's mercy, men and women are equal, and "All do We aid, both these and those, and the gift of thy Lord is not limited" is established and applicable in this regard. Thus the garment of sanctification of the love of God and the blessed robe of the knowledge of God fits every stature harmoniously, whether male or female, whether old or young.   AB05051

The world of women in previous dispensations was very dark, but in this cycle it shall become, on the contrary, illumined and they shall snatch the ball of precedence from the field. They shall open eloquent tongues and seek fluent speech, and with the utmost courage shall arrange the battle lines, and through the power of proof and the might of knowledge shall conquer the realms of hearts.   AB05518

In America, the women have outdone the men in this regard and have taken the lead in this field. They strive harder in guiding the peoples of the world, and their endeavours are greater. They are confirmed by divine bestowals and blessings. It is my hope that in the East the handmaids of the Merciful will also exert such effort, reveal their powers, and manifest their capacities.   AB03179


The sphere of divine knowledge was thus far the arena of the masculine sex and the roaming place of men, but in this glorious Cycle some women have been raised who have become the champions in the field of certitude, and dauntless in the arena of assurance. This is one of the distinguishing characteristics of this great Revelation and one of the bestowals of the glorious Lord.  AB10638

They say that women are weaker than men in their creation, nature and virtues. But this servant has the strongest conviction that not every man is strong nor every woman weak. Those women who are firm in God's Covenant and Testament are among the most powerful souls and are reinforced by the hosts of the Kingdom. And vacillating men are weaker than a mosquito or spider.  AB09578

O handmaids of the All-Merciful! Strive that like men you may play polo in this field and carry off the ball. I swear by the Ancient Beauty that the hosts of the Supreme Kingdom will so confirm you that you will become vanguards and breakers of ranks in the arena of mystic knowledge, and the power of their confirmation will make you victorious over the men of the world.  AB01788

In this Most Great Cycle and this gracious Dispensation, the women have been raised up to an exalted station. Some have become eloquent speakers, while others have been endowed with a new and wondrous utterance. Certain handmaidens have surged like unto an ocean, and certain leaves upon the Tree of existence have become even as goodly fruits in the world of being.  AB09802

When women reach the highest degree of progress, then according to the requirements of the time, place and great capacity of the women of the world, the world of women will gain extraordinary distinctions.  AB00799

"Furthermore, the education of woman is more necessary and important than that of man, for woman is the trainer of the child from its infancy. If she be defective and imperfect herself, the child will necessarily be deficient; therefore, imperfection of woman implies a condition of imperfection in all mankind, for it is the mother who rears, nurtures and guides the growth of the child."  ABU0098

The American women as a whole are better educated, more well-informed on classical as well as current subjects and the spreaders of the right ideals of education. They are endowed with a most wonderful power of assimilation and comprehend quickly the subtleties of philosophy and religion. A woman Principal in any of the high schools of the United States is more intelligent than the President of the University of El-Azhar in Cairo! I talked with some of their wise women and their minds quickly grasped my meaning, although we were discussing the profound subjects of divine philosophy. I have spoken on similar topics with the Professors of El Azhar and they were as far from understanding my talk as the tadpole is from visualizing the condition of man!  ABU2631

Devote ye particular attention to the school for girls, for the greatness of this wondrous Age will be manifested as a result of progress in the world of women. This is why ye observe that in every land the world of women is on the march, and this is due to the impact of the Most Great Manifestation, and the power of the teachings of God.   AB02250

"Every woman who is directed to the Guidance of God in this Great Age, will surpass men in every respect; and she will be informed of the Hidden Mystery of Preserved Allegory; her word will take effect even in a hard rock; minds will be astonished at the power of her understanding; and souls will be subdued by the strength of her argument."   AB04600

"Today among the Baha'is of Persia there are many women who are the very pride and envy of the men. They are imbued with all the virtues and excellences of humanity. They are eloquent; they are poets and scholars and embody the quintessence of humility. In political ability and acumen they have been able to cope and compete with representative men."  ABU0098

They say that women are weaker than men in their creation, nature and virtues. This servant has the firm conviction that not every man is strong nor every woman weak. Those women who are firm in God's Covenant and Testament are the strongest souls and are supported by the hosts of the Kingdom, while vacillating men are weaker than a mosquito or a spider.  AB09578

In this great Cycle and wondrous Dispensation some women have been raised up who were the emblems of unity and ensigns of oneness, for the revelation of divine bestowals is received by men and women in equal measure. Verily the most honoured in the sight of God is the most virtuous amongst you is applicable to both men and women, to servants and handmaidens.  AB03615

Such rash and unseemly deeds are not worthy of the noble station of womanhood. They must hold fast to pacific methods, like their American sisters across the Atlantic, who have secured the right of universal suffrage in nine states, with others on the list.   ABU1463

The Supreme Pen testifies that you are men, nay rather, among the most valiant of men.   BH04876


Every maidservant who hath believed is regarded by God as amongst the most exalted of men.  BH02159

Perchance women will arise to promote His Cause, speak forth His praise, and turn towards His direction.   BH06403

Many women are today remembered before God as being superior to men, and some men who are counted as women.  BH08741

And the Spirit be upon thee and upon those women who have believed in God and were among those who attained.  BH11860

One of the proofs of the advancement of women is this magnificent and imposing building and this large gathering.  ABU3456

women's gatherings will produce eloquent speakers who will astound East and West; women in West have already surpassed men  AB00943

May the handmaidens of the merciful blaze with the fire of the love of God and raise aloft the banner of divine recognition.   AB05688

We have made mention of all the handmaidens of the earth and summoned them to the Most Exalted Horizon, yet none attained except a few   BH08503

Today, the service of the handmaidens of God hath been and is trust in God, steadfastness, and sanctification from that which is unseemly.   BH09650

O Lord! Make her a sign of Your gift among the handmaidens and a beacon of Your guidance shining and illuminating between earth and heaven   AB04570

Every handmaiden who hath arisen in love of her Lord is better in the sight of thy Lord than a thousand men and than His heedless handmaidens.   BH08688

intelligent and astute ladies from among womankind have been freed from an old and worn-out set of ignorant traditions, and have arrived at truth   AB11961

From this station We send Our greetings upon the faces of My maidservants who have believed in God, the Powerful, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Wise  BH08130

From this luminous Spot We send Our greetings to the faces of those women who have believed in God, the Single, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH05791

A believing woman whose face is illumined with this light, whose eyes are open, and whose words burn with spiritual fervor - she is the true Layla.  AB10652

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of inner meanings that these handmaidens are and have been greater and more exalted than the queens of the earth.   BH05943

Every handmaiden who in this Day hath attained unto the wine of divine bounty is reckoned among the men and numbered with the chosen ones in the Book.  BH06325

every maidservant who arises in this day in the mystery of sacrifice in the path of God will become one of the stars of guidance in the supreme horizon  ABU3108

It is very clear that in the immediate future woman shall play a great role in the progress of civilization. There is a great unrest in the woman's world.  ABU0870

The favors of God and His watchful care have ever been and shall continue to be directed toward His handmaidens. Consider this bounty as great and magnificent  BH06971

Among the miracles which distinguish this sacred Dispensation is this, that women have evinced a greater boldness than men when enlisted in the ranks of the Faith.  AB11556


be assured that the fountain of assurance will gush out in the hearts of the firm and steadfast women believers, and the divine graces will strengthen them from all sides  AB02844

Though you are counted among women, in this blessed Cycle and Age of the Covenant women have arisen who have won the race ahead of men in the field of spiritual attainment.  AB05734

In this divine age the bounties of God have encompassed the world of women. Women have become verses of guidance and manifestations of the favors of the Most Glorious Beauty.   AB12042

Know thou that every woman who hath believed in God and purified her soul is better than a thousand men who have disbelieved in God and were remote from the paradise of nearness.  BH07871

it is permissible for women to benefit from men in sciences and perfections and to receive truths and meanings, but with perfect dignity and all that modesty and chastity require.  AB03659


Wonder not that thou hast attained to this great bounty, for in Persia some women were raised up who were flames of guidance and became the means of guiding many of the chosen ones  AB00908

This is a Book which speaks with truth and gives glad tidings to those handmaidens who have believed in God their Lord, who were among those who stood firm on the Day of Resurrection   BH06779

The glory be upon thee, upon thy mother who hath heard the call and turned unto it, and upon every maidservant who hath attained to the recognition of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.  BH06731

"Soon will the faces of the handmaids of God shine like unto bright candles in the Abha Kingdom, and their hearts will become like flower gardens and rose-beds, as in the spring season."  AB12717

"This bounty is to serve the Cause of God with deeds that distinguish thee from other women...with every woman from whom thou discernest the fragrance of devotion and submissiveness unto God."  AB05434

even if the most beautiful women were to pass before them, their gaze would never turn in that direction... The assured and tranquil believing women must become renowned throughout all regions  AB06060

"Know in the reality of assurance that every true woman who is attracted by the fragrances of holiness in this most glorious age will surpass even the most developed men of previous centuries."  AB03614

O handmaiden of God! Arouse and entice the handmaidens of God, and show them the way of training the children with enthusiasm and detachment, because the first educators of children are mothers  AB01549

"Blessed art thou, doubly blessed art thou! Thou art reckoned amongst those handmaidens whose love for their kin hath not prevented them from attaining the shores of the Sea of Grace and Mercy."   BH04168

that the maidservants of the All-Merciful in that region may become so attracted to the Beauty of God that they raise a tumult in that clime and kindle a flame in the souls of those near and far   AB02096

In this divine Dispensation the bounties of Truth concerning the handmaidens of the All-Merciful are manifest and evident. Therefore, leaves have been raised up who have caused minds to be amazed.   AB06395

Praise be to God, there are many maidservants of the All-Merciful in that region. One of them must create such enthusiasm and passion that all the maidservants of God are brought to ecstasy and joy  AB03356

And that lieth in gathering to learn how to teach, in holding meetings to recite the verses, to offer supplications to the kingdom of the Lord of evident signs, and to institute education for the girls.   AB00677

Praise be unto Thee, O my God, for having enabled Thy handmaidens to turn towards the light of Thy countenance and to incline unto the horizon of Thy Revelation, after most of the men in Thy realm had turned away.  BH11670

Every handmaiden who, through the grace of the Lord of Names, hath rent asunder the veil, she is accounted as among the men in the sight of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, and is recorded by the Most Exalted Pen.  BH08554

O handmaidens of God! Render thanks and be engaged in His praise and glorification, inasmuch as He hath assisted you to attain a station whereof the men of earth, be they divines or others, remain deprived and debarred.   BH00709

Diligent effort is required for the education of women. This Wronged One commandeth that which will draw them nigh unto God. Verily, He desireth for His servants and handmaidens the good of this world and the next.  BH01768

Women must educate themselves and strive to acquire virtues. Moreover, they must win their rights through education, and not by force or obstruction, for it befits the wise to seek equality through prudent and educative means.  ABU3723

Today and always, the highest adornment for the women of the earth hath been the blessed word "O My Handmaiden." Every handmaiden who attaineth unto this word is recorded as one of the denizens of the highest Paradise in God's Book.   BH08661

For mothers are the first educators, the first mentors; and truly it is the mothers who determine the happiness, the future greatness, the courteous ways and learning and judgement, the understanding and the faith of their little ones.  AB06584

As for the matter of teaching classes, this is very appropriate. The women must certainly become informed of divine proofs and evidences and become cognizant of the laws of the Most Holy Book so they can guide other women to the Living Waters.  AB04972

How many men who counted themselves among the most learned of the learned were seen to be deprived and forbidden from the choice wine and from the Kawthar of the utterance of the Self-Subsisting Lord, while the handmaidens of God attained thereunto.   BH07224

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of proof that handmaidens who today have attained unto the recognition of God, exalted be His glory, are and have been superior and more exalted in the sight of God than the men of the earth, be they divines or others.  BH09715

Most of the women of the world, though they ardently yearned for the appearance of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, attained not unto the Day of God and found not His fragrance. Their idle fancies have kept them back from the Dayspring of certitude.   BH05927

The difference between Baha'i women and others is that other Eastern women are either occupied with household management or with amusement and play, while Baha'i women attend to life's necessities as needed and spend the rest of their time explaining truths and meanings.  AB00733

Day and night thou must strive so that the woman world may be adorned with complete culture and refinement, making extraordinary progress in the world of morality and be fully established in the realm of sciences and arts. This is the cause of the sublimity of the realm of woman.  AB10575

Great is this station, and great in this Revelation is the station of the handmaids of God. Through the counsels, exhortations, goodly deeds and praiseworthy character of the leaves of the Blessed Tree, may the handmaids of the earth hereafter become aware and find the path of truth.   BH05201

In Persia, many men surpassed Kurrat-al-Ayn in knowledge and eloquence, and were more illumined, but she, being a woman, manifested a greater work. The maidservants in America are good souls and are advancing. Among those supplications from America, there are ten from women to one from men.  ABU1185

From the lowest degree of humiliation He hath uplifted her to the highest realm of heavenly brightness. He hath bestowed upon her a ray of His Supreme Intelligence whereby to grapple with modern social problems and at the end come out triumphant with the garland of victory on her noble brow.  ABU2007

The letter from that handmaiden of God arrived at a time when, due to the sorrows that have befallen [Us], the divine fragrances were cut off and the pen was prevented from movement. Nevertheless, out of love for God, a reply is being written to that handmaiden of God according to what my Lord desires.  BH11844

In this wondrous Dispensation, such a bounty has been bestowed upon women by the Abha Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, that it cannot be imagined. In truth, they have attained the station of men and have become the recipients of the favors of His Holiness the One in all matters.   AB07196

In Europe and America, the handmaids of the Merciful have taken precedence over the men and have done wonders in teaching and spreading the fragrances of God. Erelong will they, like the birds of the Celestial Concourse, take flight throughout the world and guide every soul and initiate him into the mysteries.   AB00719

Today each of the handmaidens of the earth has attained the most great honor and supreme bounty, which is the recognition of God, exalted be His glory. She is mentioned before God as being among the people of the most exalted Paradise and is recorded in the Book as one of the sincere ones and those brought nigh.   BH06804

O handmaiden of God and daughter of His handmaiden! I beseech God to make thee a sign of guidance and a holy, pure reality, detached from all save God, and a center for the dawning of the sign of sanctification among the handmaidens - one who is attracted, enkindled, speaking forth and calling to the Cause of God.  AB07778

Baha'u'llah declares the education of woman to be of more importance than that of man. If the mother be ignorant, even if the father have great knowledge, the child's education will be at fault, for education begins with the milk. A child at the breast is like a tender branch that the gardener can train as he wills.  ABU0587

It is my hope that through the bounty of God His handmaidens may all without exception become adorned with such wondrous garments as these and such beauteous robes so that each one of them may hear from the kingdom of holiness the words, "Verily God has purified thee and chosen thee amongst the women of the world."   AB04641

Particularly regarding the supplicating leaves of those regions, it was observed that the women show more resolve than the men, are seekers of truth, make great effort and striving, and in their manners and conduct show the utmost dignity. Though outwardly unveiled, in reality they possess the highest chastity and purity   AB00741

The tongue of the Concourse on high uttereth praise of those women who are the pride of men, who have forgotten themselves, forsaken their comfort, attached their hearts to the Kingdom of God, raised the call of God, spread the signs of God, and advanced clear proofs and firm evidences of the manifestation of the Kingdom of God.  AB10739

In truth, the magnet which attracts these bounties is the education of children. If mothers, as they ought and must, rear their children from infancy with spiritual training, divine organization, and physical discipline, this vigilance is service at the Threshold of Oneness, nay rather, worship at the Threshold of the All-Merciful.  AB05045

O Lord! Make them eloquent in Thy proofs and evidences, announcing Thy power and sovereignty, spreading Thy banner and raising the standards of Thy oneness, shining forth from the horizon of Thy bounty, drawn to Thy countenance, bearing glad tidings of Thy Cause and warning of Thy wrath, chanting Thy tablets and revealing Thy mysteries.  AB01269

In former cycles, so numerous were the women who arose to serve and wandered in the wilderness of the love of God, yet they were not numbered as equal to men, inasmuch as it was unequivocally stated: Men have superiority over women. Now, in this wondrous Revelation, women have indeed surpassed men, and this limitation hath been removed.  AB04051

Convey greetings and glory to the Handmaid of God, the morning dove of love, and say: O handmaid of God, offer thanks and praise to the Lord of Command, that you have soared in this atmosphere and become attuned to this melody. Then, with an illumined face, you will shine like a candle in the gathering of the handmaids of the All-Merciful   AB11859

Yet it is established that Aisha, who was the consort of the Prophet, would sit and people would ask her questions which she would answer. During the circumambulation of the Ka'bah she called out "No face covering and no veil!" And Sakinah, daughter of Imam Husayn, would sit while poets would recite poetry in her presence and make her their judge.  ABU1604

In this divine Dispensation, and in this heavenly Age, mankind has become freed from the shackles of the distinction between the feminine and the masculine. The one who exerteth the utmost endeavor, is the one who advanceth and excelleth. How numerous are the men who remained behind [the veil], and how many the women who became the heroines of the field.  AB07653

In this day women have been raised up who are each a mighty sign and a leaf of the Tree beyond which there is no passing. They have laid an everlasting foundation in this transient world and have kindled such a flame at the pole of the earth that the veils of the peoples were consumed. These women became the pride of men and embodied and personified chastity and virtue.  AB09589

The first educator of the child is the mother, for the child is like unto a fresh and verdant sapling that is at the beginning of its growth, thou shouldst direct it through education. If thou teaches them heavenly virtues, they will grow straight and balanced. It is clear and evident that the mother is the first educator and the establisher of the upright conduct of her child.  AB02098

For the day will come when these girls will become mothers. Mothers are the first educators of children, who establish virtues in the child's inner nature. They encourage the child to acquire perfections and goodly manners, warn him against unbecoming qualities, and encourage him to show forth resolve, firmness, and endurance under hardship, and to advance on the high road to progress.  AB01967

Until now, in Persia, the means for women's advancement were non-existent. But now, God be thanked, ever since the dawning of the Morn of Salvation, they have been going forward day by day. The hope is that they will take the lead in virtues and attainments, in closeness to the Court of Almighty God, in faith and certitude--and that the women of the East will become the envy of the women of the West.  AB04966

Therefore, strive to show in the human world that women are most capable and efficient, that their hearts are more tender and susceptible than the hearts of men, that they are more philanthropic and responsive toward the needy and suffering, that they are inflexibly opposed to war and are lovers of peace. Strive that the ideal of international peace may become realized through the efforts of womankind.  ABU0153

Formerly in India, Persia and throughout the Orient, she was not considered a human being. Certain Arab tribes counted their women in with the live stock. In their language the noun for woman also meant donkey; that is, the same name applied to both and a man's wealth was accounted by the number of these beasts of burden he possessed. The worst insult one could hurl at a man was to cry out, "Thou woman!"  From the moment Baha'u'llah appeared, this changed. He did away with the idea of distinction between the sexes, proclaiming them equal in every capacity.  ABU0587

After the martyrdom of Christ, to Whom be glory, the disciples were greatly disturbed and disheartened. Even Peter had denied Christ and tried to shun Him. It was a woman, Mary Magdalene, who confirmed the wavering disciples in their faith... In the Cause of Baha'u'llah there have been women who were superior to men in illumination, intellect, divine virtues and devotion to God. Among them was Qurratu'l-'Ayn.  ABU0153

In Persia, Arabia, India, Turkey and other Asiatic countries woman was a negligible personality, a creature not to be trusted - belonging to the lower order of creation. One of the most opprobrious insults that could be heaped upon a man of some spirits was to call him a "woman." The person making such an abusive remark was severely called into account and often an enmity lasting for years would be the outcome.  ABU2007

The question of training the children and looking after the orphans is extremely important, but most important of all is the education of girl children, for these girls will one day be mothers, and the mother is the first teacher of the child. And how can a mother, herself ignorant and untrained, educate her child? It is therefore clear that the education of girls is of far greater consequence than that of boys.  AB02690

Mothers must give the utmost importance to and make every effort in the education of children, for while a branch is still tender it can be trained in any way. Therefore mothers must nurture young children like saplings that a gardener cultivates. They must strive day and night to establish in children faith and certitude, fear of the Merciful, love for the Beloved of all worlds, moral virtues and goodly characteristics.   AB01105

O ye cherished handmaidens at the threshold of the Lord! The ladies of the world will ultimately be brought low, and the queens of the earth will in the end be humbled and abased. Their flourishing palaces will become buried tombs, and their glory and grandeur will vanish and disappear. But the handmaidens of the Blessed Beauty will become the cherished ones of the heaven of paradise and the queens of the gardens of heaven.  AB07515

The conditions of being a handmaiden of God today are that one must gaze at all times toward the Most Exalted Horizon. This station is not attained except through the greatest sanctification and detachment. Blessed are the handmaidens who have drunk from the Kawthar of love for the Purpose of all worlds and are occupied with His mention and praise.  BH03663

Every woman who becometh the maidservant of God outshineth in glory the empresses of the world, for she is related to God, and her sovereignty is everlasting, whereas a handful of dust will obliterate the name and fame of those empresses. In other words, as soon as they go down to the grave they are reduced to naught. The maidservants of God's Kingdom, on the other hand, enjoy eternal sovereignty unaffected by the passing of ages and generations.  AB03459

As for the Teaching Committee, whose esteemed members are the handmaidens of the All-Merciful - they too are confirmed by the aid and care of the Ancient Beauty. Soon they shall observe that they are assisted by unseen hosts and are blessed with the abundant grace of the Kingdom of the All-Forgiving Lord. They shall kindle such a flame throughout all regions that will set aflame the very heart of contingent being and shake the pillars of the world.  AB00784

There have been many women in Persia who have been eloquent, courageous and long-suffering in the support of the Bahai cause. Among them was the famous Kurat-ul-Ayn, a most scholarly woman belonging to the ecclesiastical class. She proclaimed the cause of woman with unshakable courage, withstanding the oppression of the Shah of Persia and of the ulama. Finally she was martyred, but to her last breath she was eloquent and fearless in defending her faith.  ABU0067

O My handmaidens! Turn with your hearts toward the Most Exalted Horizon, then drink in My name the Kawthar of My utterance, the wine of My loving-kindness, and the pure water of My bounty which hath encompassed creation.  BH00255

Glory be to Him Who maketh mention of His handmaidens who have believed in Him, who have detached themselves from all that is repugnant to His good-pleasure, who have walked in the ways of the righteous, and have hearkened unto the melodies of the birds of eternity from the direction of the Throne of God, the Most High, the Most Exalted, and who soar on the wings of love and faithfulness toward the most sublime and resplendent heaven at dawn and in the early hours.  BH11737

O handmaid of God! The handmaids of the All-Merciful shall acquire resounding fame throughout all regions in the course of centuries and ages. Consider that Mary Magdalene spoke but a few words concerning the Cause of God, yet how these words spread and acquired great significance in the ears of the world. And now the handmaids of the All-Merciful speak with matchless utterance, and each one of them hath authored works that shall assume great importance in future ages.  AB00305

Consider that these girls will one day become mothers, and the life and salvation of children, their deliverance and success, depend upon and are conditioned by these mothers' good character and abundance of perfections. If a mother is perfect, knowledgeable, learned, believing and insightful, she will nurse her children at the breast of the love of God, lead them to the knowledge of God, establish sound education, and from an early age nurture the children in human perfections and virtues.  AB07694

During the dispensation of every sanctified Manifestation, a number of women were attracted and aroused from the tombs of the material world and were called to the magnificent gathering place of the spirit. They drank their fill from the chalice of the wine of guidance from the hand of the Cupbearer of grace, and received heavenly confirmations from the Revealer of the signs of divine power. Thereafter, with an eloquent speech, a sweet utterance, a fervour and enthusiasm born of God, they scattered to every corner of the world.  AB01788

Among famous women of history was Zenobia, who, as you well know, was queen of Palmyra in the East. Among the heroic women of history was also Catherine of Russia, and had it not been for her the Russian sovereignty would have been entirely effaced and Peter the Great would have been defeated. Another was Cleopatra who by reason of her cunning and cleverness frustrated the plans of a Roman Emperor. Still another was Esther, a woman renowned among the Israelites, a woman of great sagacity, who really restored the glory of Israel.  ABU0067

"What favor and tender mercy this is, such priceless bounty and grace. Praised be the Self-Subsisting Lord, Who through the recognition of His Faith caused women to become the pride of all men, and through the power of faith led them to triumph over the fearless warriors of the field. He endowed her with an eloquent speech, conferred upon her a mighty utterance, and bestowed on her an enlightened heart and an inspired soul. He granted her a life filled with tidings of joy, and bestowed upon her a crystal pure and radiant conscience."  AB03093

One of the manifest signs of the Day of God is that some women are raised from the slumber of self and heedlessness and gathered under the shadow of the banner of the all-embracing Word, who have become the glory of men and the light of the world. They have engaged the tongue in remembering the All-Merciful, and have refreshed the soul and existence with the fragrances of the Beloved. They have been steadfast as the immovable mountain in the Cause of God, and have scattered, as the surging sea, the pearls of meaning of divine knowledge.  AB03498

And at the end of the Tablet We make mention of My handmaidens who have believed in the One, the All-Informed. How many a servant hath been kept back through pride from the Lord of Revelation, and how many a handmaiden hath turned unto the Much-frequented Fane and believed in God, the Lord of all worlds. He giveth whom He willeth whatsoever He desireth. He, verily, is the Single One, the One Alone, the Mighty, the Powerful. Blessed is the handmaiden who hath attained unto My days, and turned unto My horizon, and clung to My luminous hem.   BH00794

Services to the divine Threshold are manifold, but the greatest of all services and the most meritorious deed is the education of the children and of the daughters of the friends of God, and the instruction of the orphans and minors of His chosen ones. Exert the utmost effort and zeal in training the male and female children of the believers in God and use a supreme power and might in this regard, haply that learning place will be the beginning of many other schools, and the daughters of the friends will become handmaidens of the Merciful.  AB07202

"The world in the past has been ruled by force, and man has dominated over woman by reason of his more forceful and aggressive qualities both of body and mind. But the scales are already shifting--force is losing its weight and mental alertness, intuition and the spiritual qualities of love and service, in which woman is strong, are gaining ascendancy. Hence the new age will be an age less masculine, and more permeated with the feminine ideals--or, to speak more exactly, will be an age in which the masculine and feminine elements of civilization will be more properly balanced."  ABU0516

God hath ordained that ye should be kind to women, honor them and revere them, that ye may be merciful. Women are as a tilth unto you, and God expoundeth His verses in truth that ye may be God-fearing. There is no blame on them if they adorn themselves and beautify their faces for their husbands. These are the bounds set by God, and none deny the verses of God save the company of unbelievers. There is no blame on them in prayer if their hair should emerge from their veils - this is God's grace and mercy upon them, that they may give thanks unto God Who created them, and that ye too may be thankful.  BB00056

"The woman is indeed of the greater importance to the race. She has the greater burden and the greater work. Look at the vegetable and the animal worlds. The palm which carries the fruit is the tree most prized by the date grower. The Arab knows that for a long journey the mare has the longest wind. For her greater strength and fierceness, the lioness is more feared by the hunter than the lion. The mere size of the brain has been proved to be no measure of superiority. The woman has greater moral courage than the man; she has also special gifts which enable her to govern in moments of danger and crisis. If necessary she can become a warrior."   ABU2700

Of a surety, there is no greater pride and glory for a woman than to be a handmaid in God's Court of Grandeur; and the qualities that shall merit her this station are an alert and wakeful heart; a firm conviction of the unity of God, the Peerless; a heartfelt love for all His maidservants; spotless purity and chastity; obedience to and consideration for her husband; attention to the education and nurturing of her children; composure, calmness, dignity and self-possession; diligence in praising God, and worshipping Him both night and day; constancy and firmness in His holy Covenant; and the utmost ardour, enthusiasm, and attachment to His Cause.  AB01230

In ancient times and medieval ages woman was completely subordinated to man. The cause of this estimate of her inferiority was her lack of education. A woman's life and intellect were limited to the household. Science is praiseworthy -- whether investigated by the intellect of man or woman. So, little by little, woman advanced, giving increasing evidence of equal capabilities with man -- whether in scientific research, political ability or any other sphere of human activity. The conclusion is evident that woman has been outdistanced through lack of education and intellectual facilities. If given the same educational opportunities or course of study, she would develop the same capacity and abilities.  ABU0153

The women who have today attained unto recognition and confession and service of the friends of God are, in the sight of God, accounted among men, nay rather among the heroes, inasmuch as neither the censure of the critic, nor the scorn of the scorner, nor the clamor of the heedless hath deterred them or shall ever deter them. Their hearts are strong and their feet are firm. I swear by the Day-Star of the horizon of utterance that the mere nail-paring of one of the believing handmaidens of today is, in the sight of God, more preferred than the divines of Persia who, after thirteen hundred years of expectation, have perpetrated what the Jews had not perpetrated at the appearance of the Spirit [Christ].   BH00480

O handmaidens of God! The Concourse on high singeth in praise, and the denizens of the Abha Kingdom adorneth the tongue with the mention of ye. At every moment render thanks unto the Blessed Beauty for having conferred such bounty, of being subject to blame and severe censure, and to be exposed to the misdeeds of the people of error. This is the all-highest bounty; it is the outpourings of supreme mercy, and a token of the favor of the Abha Beauty. Ere long, blame will be transformed into thankfulness, and censure will change into praise and gratitude; and the handmaidens of God will each burn brightly even as a candle in the assemblies of women, and will beam forth as a star upon the horizon of eternal glory.  AB03465

Zenobia was the wife of the governor-general of Athens. Her husband died, and like the Russian Queen, Catherine, she manifested the highest degree of capability in the administration of public affairs. The Roman government appointed her to succeed her husband. Afterward she conquered Syria, conducted a successful campaign in Egypt and established a memorable sovereignty... Among other noted women of history was Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, who held her kingdom against the armies of Rome for a long time. Catherine, wife of Peter the Great, displayed courage and military strategy of the very highest order during the war between Russia and Muhammad Pasha... Victoria, Queen of England, was really superior to all the kings of Europe in ability, justness and equitable administration.  ABU0153

In Christianity, Mary Magdalene was the cause of the steadfastness of the apostles. All the apostles were shaken after Christ, but Mary Magdalene remained firm as a lion. In the time of Muhammad, there were two women who were more learned than other women and became promoters of the Islamic Faith. Thus it is evident that women too have their luminaries. In the realm of politics, you have undoubtedly heard about Zenobia of Palmyra who shook the Roman Empire. When going to battle, she placed a crown upon her head, wore purple garments, let her hair flow freely, and with sword in hand led her army with such skill that she devastated the opposing forces. Finally, the Emperor himself was compelled to appear on the battlefield. For two years he besieged Palmyra but could not prevail through valor.  ABU0028

In this wondrous Dispensation, the handmaidens of the All-Merciful must offer a thousand thanks at every moment that the hand of grace has delivered women from the depths of abasement and raised them to the summit of men's glory. Consider what a bounty this is, for the group of women had fallen to such a degree in the East that when mention was made of women in the Arabic language, one would say "Far be it from thee" just as one would say "Far be it from thee to be a donkey." And in the Turkish language it was said "Far be it from thy presence to mention women." And in the Persian language, when talking about women one would say "May there be no relationship" and would refer to them as "the weak one." Now, praise be to God, under the shadow of the Blessed One's grace, women are held in the utmost respect.  AB03153

Consider, how in former ages a number of women became confirmed and assisted in the demonstration of faith and assurance and how in this mortal world they left behind immortal names. In the world of existence, there are no greater women than the queens of empires. Materially they have reached the highest station of womanhood and gained great riches, infinite power and glory. Notwithstanding all these advantages when they die and go under the earth, they disappear and become non-existent. They leave behind no name, no trace, no fruit and no sign. But the maid servants of God who are outwardly in the utmost poverty and imprisoned by the people of oppression, humiliated and scoffed at by the outsiders, ere long, they will crown their heads with the diadem of the everlasting Glory and established upon the eternal throne of majesty. Their signs are eternal and their fame universal.  AB02405

When thou observest the world events and the news and history of centuries, dispensations and ages, thou realisest that the greatest happenings and effects have been revealed and manifested from the female sex. But some have been the manifestations of glorious signs and some captives of the vainglory of lust and passion. Some became the cause of everlasting life to the world and its inhabitants, and others the cause of perpetual death of the unfortunate ones. Therefore, it is evident that this substance is confirmed by the all-conquering might and the most powerful influence, but it all depends on the way in which this power and might is used; if it is spent in the path of God and in divine attraction, the resplendent reality of God's glorious sign will shine forth, but if it is used to promote satanic promptings, the truth of "that is indeed from your deception, your deception is verily great" will be manifested.  AB05336

