
By My life! I have sacrificed My soul for your sake, O My servants.   BH03551

We have sacrificed Our self to exalt the Word of God above all else.  BH02635

Jesus Christ was put to death because He wished to become a sacrifice  ABU2116

"We have accepted abasement for your glory and tribulations for your deliverance."  BH02792

If this physical life had any importance, Christ would not have accepted crucifixion.  ABU1666

This is He Who accepted harm for your deliverance and sacrificed Himself for your life.   BH03717

Thou seest, O my God, what I have borne for the liberation and salvation of Thy servants.  BH08497

We, however, have offered up Our soul for the love of God and for the life of the worlds.  BH11809

We have offered up Our spirit in the days of God ere the creation of the heavens and the earth  BH10400

We accepted sorrows for the joy of all created things, and hardship for the ease of the worlds.   BH08356

Baha'o'llah endured every difficulty. He suffered every ordeal. He sacrificed himself for all mankind.  ABU2305

He accepted abasement for the glory of all on earth and chose imprisonment for the salvation of the worlds   BH05713

He hath sacrificed His spirit in the path of God that He might bring you nigh unto the seat of a mighty throne.   BH00822

Know thou that He hath sacrificed His spirit, His body and His frame for God, the Lord of the first and the last.   BH05296

He hath sacrificed Himself in the path of God, your Lord, that He might draw you nigh unto an exalted station of glory   BH06525

His Holiness the Christ was fighting even upon the cross and his triumphs continued throughout all centuries and cycles!   ABU1388

Thanks be to Thee for having sacrificed me for the life of the worlds, and thanks be to Thee for having imprisoned me for the emancipation of the worlds.   BH11070

I swear by Thy glory! I have accepted to be tried by manifold adversities for no purpose except to regenerate all that are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth.  BH03289

He hath verily offered up the Manifestation of Himself as a ransom for summoning you to draw nigh unto the station foreordained for you by the Flowing Pen.   BH03702

He desireth naught from you, and hath sacrificed His spirit for all who are in the heavens and on earth, out of His love for God, your Lord and the Lord of all worlds.  BH03027

The Tongue of God declared: "I have come for the salvation of all the world and have sacrificed My soul for the purification and life of the world, and these tribulations are inevitable."   BH00583

If Jesus Christ had not been crucified, the Holy Ghost would not have been given to the Disciples. The three years Jesus was with them they didn't receive it, but after the crucifixion, it descended upon them.  ABU1236

The Ancient Beauty hath been imprisoned to free the world, and hath been confined in the Most Great Prison to liberate all who dwell on earth. He hath chosen sorrows for Himself that all in creation might rejoice.   BH02484

His Holiness the Bab underwent persecutions and martyrdom; His Holiness Baha'u'llah accepted willingly sufferings, exiles and their attendant hardships - till at last this field was cleared from the thorns and tares of human selfishness  ABU0286

Christ said: "I have given my life in order that ye may live." When Christ came into the world He gave all His bounties to mankind in order that they might see their bounties therein; and this was the way He sacrificed His life to the world.  ABU0313

Whom Thou hast sacrificed that all the dwellers of Thine earth and heaven may be born anew, and Whom Thou hast cast into prison that mankind may, as a token of Thy bounty and of Thy sovereign might, be released from the bondage of evil passions and corrupt desires  BH07654

The Blessed Perfection sacrificed His country, His household, His wealth, His glory, His affluence and even His Life for the progress of the Cause of God. If He so renounced everything, so that the heaven of the divine Faith be upheld, then the duty of the believers is plain.   ABU1562

"Every prophet, or Manifestation of God, must know fully that he will be utterly destroyed, before he begins his work, for his teachings will be against the teachings of the whole world. Jesus knew His words would result in His crucifixion, and His lifting us would give eternal life."  ABU1464

For the protection and safety of the people of the world, He made Himself a target for the arrows of tribulations and subjected Himself to the attacks of fierce beasts so that the divine sheep might find rest from the aggression of cruel predators and the oppression of the wolves of self and passion  ABU2153

Glorified art Thou, O Lord, my God! Thou seest me in the hands of Mine enemies, and My son bloodstained before Thy face, O Thou in Whose hands is the kingdom of all names. I have, O my Lord, offered up that which Thou hast given Me, that Thy servants may be quickened and all that dwell on earth be united.  BH08834

The first redemption is the giving of the human life in order to make known the truth. The second redemption is the giving of the spirituality in order that the prophet or manifestation shall fill his disciples with the gift of spirituality. The third redemption is the utter and entire annihilation of the self.  ABU0356

The self-sacrifice of Jesus Christ caused those who believed in Him to have eternal life. The mystery of self-sacrifice has been manifested in all the prophets, because this is the foundation- the basis of divinity. The self-sacrifice and martyrdom of all the prophets caused the sins of the people to be forgiven.  ABU0808

The great martyrdom or the sacrifice of life is like unto a mirror and when turned toward the sun, the temple and the body of the mirror become utterly effaced; that is, the martyrs efface themselves in the love of God to such an extent that the bodies and mirrors no longer exist. They become the rays of the sun.   ABU0492

The Youth desireth naught from you, as every fair-minded and knowing one doth testify. He hath sacrificed His spirit out of love for those who are in the heavens and on earth, that He might purify them from whatsoever preventeth them from ascending unto the Kingdom of God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH00545

During fifty years, many were his vicissitudes. He suffered all these catastrophes for us, that we may turn to God; that we may attain to faith; that we may attain to certainty; that we act in accordance with his teachings; that we may be the cause of the illumination of the world; that we may be the means of guiding the people.  ABU0659

Each Manifestation of God, from Buddha and Confucius to Baha'u'llah, lived a life in God, with God, for God, and such a life, according to the eternal and inscrutable laws of the Creator, is only possible through the creature's obedience and sacrifice. With His life Christ, the Holy One, proved His obedience, in His death he proved His complete sacrifice!  ABU1479

We have desired naught for Ourselves, but rather for your sakes, were ye to be fair-minded. We have accepted the swords of the enemies for your life, and every fair-minded, well-informed person beareth witness to this. We have turned away from all who are on earth for the sake of your turning unto the direction of the mercy of your Lord, the Most Merciful, the Compassionate.  BH01530

Christ became a willing sacrifice so that His divine qualities would manifest in those who believed in Him. The seed gives up its form in the earth to bring forth a tree with leaves, blossoms and fruits that manifest the perfections latent within that seed. Similarly, Christ's sacrifice enabled His disciples to manifest His divine attributes. Through the sacrifice of Baha'u'llah, His perfections may appear in you.  ABU0848

As it was the custom in the old times to offer sacrifices for sins, so did Christ (glory be to Him) say in substance, 'I offer myself as an example and as a sacrifice for the safety and salvation of the people, i.e. I am willing to accept every disaster and calamity for the sake of guiding the people' - even death, for He was necessarily opposing everybody. I have accepted all things that the people may know the truth as it is.  ABU2477

This is the reason why the universal Manifestations of God unveil Their countenances to man, and endure every calamity and sore affliction, and lay down Their lives as a ransom; it is to make these very people, the ready ones, the ones who have capacity, to become dawning points of light, and to bestow upon them the life that fadeth never. This is the true sacrifice: the offering of oneself, even as did Christ, as a ransom for the life of the world.   AB00131

And His reason for shouldering this heavy load and enduring all this anguish, which was even as an ocean that hurleth its waves to high heaven -- His reason for putting on the heavy iron chains and for becoming the very embodiment of utter resignation and meekness, was to lead every soul on earth to concord, to fellow-feeling, to oneness; to make known amongst all peoples the sign of the singleness of God, so that at last the primal oneness deposited at the heart of all created things would bear its destined fruit  AB00112

When Christ appeared, He knew that He must proclaim Himself in opposition to all the nations and peoples of the earth. He knew that mankind would arise against Him and inflict upon Him all manner of tribulations. There is no doubt that one who put forth such a claim as Christ announced would arouse the hostility of the world and be subjected to personal abuse. He realized that His blood would be shed and His body rent by violence. Notwithstanding His knowledge of what would befall Him, He arose to proclaim His message, suffered all tribulation and hardships from the people and finally offered His life as a sacrifice in order to illumine humanity.  ABU0139
