
Now that I am busy with the construction of the Shrine of the Bab, I had intended for you to help me in every aspect of the raising of this Sacred Edifice.  ABU3679

For after sixty years of restlessness and wandering, the sacred remains of the Exalted One - may my spirit be sacrificed for His wrongs - found repose on Mount Carmel.   AB01115

During the following week, `Abdu'l-Baha informed us, The good news that I had promised is this: the sacred remains of the Exalted Bab have safely left the soil of Iran and just arrived in the Ottoman land.  They are now completely out of danger. After 50 years, what the Blessed Beauty promised has come to pass.  ABU3705

The sacred remains of the Bab, after sixty years of wandering and restlessness, found their resting place on Mount Carmel, on the Mountain of God, at the Most Holy Shrine.  AB02507

In reality to bring the remains of the BAB from Persia and inter it in the unique building was the most difficult and at the same time the most triumphal work of the Cause.   ABU2782

The sacred remains of His Holiness the Exalted One, may my soul be a sacrifice for Him, after sixty years of wandering, have found repose in the holy spot of Mount Carmel, the divine garden of Carmel.   AB01477

the pictured spirit, the luminous form of His Holiness the Exalted One found its resting place with the utmost joy and gladness in the purified sepulcher on God's mountain, Mount Carmel, the sacred spot   AB12094


Mr. Latimer asked about the taking of the body of the Bab to Tihran.  ‘Abdu'l-Baha: "It is just as it is written in the Traveller's Narrative. Read it in the Traveller's Narrative. It is the same. All the other accounts are without foundation. Suleyman Khan, the martyr, brought His Blessed Body to Tihran." ABU0913

With complete humility and reverence they brought the Most Great Throne - the pure body and sacred temple (may my spirit and being be sacrificed for His dust) - by palanquin to the land of Syria and by steamer to the Holy Land.  AB00864

on the blessed day of Naw-Ruz, after sixty years of restlessness, the purified body of the Exalted One (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him) was established with utmost ceremony at the best location on Mount Carmel, the Mountain of the Lord  AB04428

Now under His sheltering grace, even the soil that is associated with His Holiness the Exalted One, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, has been elevated and becomes more prosperous day by day, and the dependencies of the magnificent Sanctuary expand.   AB02047

Glorified is He Whom neither prison nor what He has endured from the people of hatred could frighten. He has delivered the messages of God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, while He was in the hands of His enemies and surrounded by hosts of polytheists.   BH03052

The marble sarcophagus with the Greatest Name inscribed in gold water arrived from Bombay. When it arrived I didn't want it opened at customs, but that wasn't possible. Then the inspectors came saying a new Ka'bih and Mecca has been built... Where is Nasiri'd-Din Shah to come and see?  ABU0244

Similarly, a letter was written in my own hand to the handmaiden of Baha regarding the Most Holy Shrine, stating that on Naw-Ruz Day, with the utmost joy and gladness, the sacred remains were placed in the marble sarcophagus and, with great ceremony and majesty, were laid to rest in the Most Holy Shrine.  AB08583

In these days, through divine decree, the confirmation of the Lord of the highest heavens, and the grace of the invisible Kingdom, the sacred remains of the Bab have been laid to rest in their designated place on Mount Carmel in Haifa...The blessed body of the Martyred One has been entirely laid to rest on Mount Carmel.  AB00194

The pure, luminous, and holy remains of His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), after being moved from place to place for sixty years due to the control of enemies and fear of the hostile ones, never finding rest or repose, through the grace of the Blessed Beauty was finally established, on the day of Naw-Ruz with utmost ceremony and perfect majesty and beauty, in the sacred casket at the most exalted spot on Mount Carmel.   AB01131

The friends in India deemed it advisable to send his sanctified remains to Iraq - ostensibly to Najaf but in reality to be interred somewhere in Iraq, in Baghdad and its surroundings. Finally the friends deemed it advisable to take them to the shrine of Salman-i-Farsi, five parasangs from Baghdad in Mada'in, to be buried there. They took them near the Arch of Ctesiphon to a very solid tomb. All the friends maintained vigil and with utmost reverence laid this divine trust to rest.  ABU0131

Four years ago, through whatever means, that location was acquired and some minor arrangements were made to prepare it. Then special instructions were sent to Rangoon, multiple letters were written, and a design was drawn for a sarcophagus made of marble from that region which is renowned throughout the world. With great difficulty, an inlaid piece was completed and through various means transported here. You have surely heard what happened when it arrived in certain cities along the way. In short, it arrived some time ago along with a casket made of the finest Indian wood. A year ago, we specifically sent Jinab-i-Aqa Mirza Asadu'llah from here so that with a palanquin he could transport the pure body and holy temple and mighty throne - may my spirit be sacrificed for His dust - from Iran with complete reverence, humility, submission and respect, accompanied by several of the friends, arriving in the Holy Land.   AB01406
