
Be thou in the station of sacrifice   AB06437

Sacrifice yourselves in service to the friends  AB09833

that souls may advance into the arena of sacrifice  AB11205

sacrifice our lives for the dawning of His oneness   AB02546

sacrifice your spirit and being to that Kind Beloved  AB02708

Everything becomes yours by Renunciation of everything.  ABU1867

What does the ocean care about a dewdrop? Whatever oppression has occurred until now has only watered the Blessed Tree.  AB12151

Until the reality of sacrifice is realized and manifested in the essence of being, the lights of guidance will not shine forth from the supreme horizon and the dawning-place of 'or nearer.' That is, until the perishable aspects of contingent existence are consumed by the kindled fire of the Lord, the lights of the Abha Kingdom will not illumine the niche of the heart and the glass of the spirit.  "Kindle thou the fire of love and burn away all existence / Then take a step and enter the path of the lovers."  To sacrifice the body is easy, but to sacrifice the qualities emanating from the realm of existence, which are essential requirements of contingency, is difficult. In any case, we hope that thou wilt become a true sacrifice and offered up in the path of the Divine Beloved. And glory be upon thee and upon all who are firm and steadfast in God's Covenant and Testament.  AB04777

If thou wilt look with the eye of truth, thou wilt see that all stations and conditions in this fleeting world are places of sacrifice, yet the sacrifices differ - one becomes a sacrifice to disease, another a sacrifice to aversion, another a sacrifice to earthly affairs.   AB06796


"in this field of sacrifice we may all carry off the ball"   AB04008

"by day thou didst sacrifice thyself in the path of Truth"   AB02168


be swift in sacrificing thy life in the path of the Beloved   BH09142

This is the hour of self-sacrifice for the good of humanity.  AB09733

Rather, sacrifice yourselves in His path with joy and free will   BH08672

A believer is sometimes called upon to suffer a living martyrdom.   ABU3369

hasten to the altar of love, and sacrifice their hearts and souls.   AB07558

This is the time for sacrifice, for radiating light, for selflessness  AB08537

Suffer them to become soul-sacrificing in the arena of nearness and union  AB10297

One must sacrifice his life, his identity, his being in the path of God.   ABU3403

The thing we hold most dear is the thing to give. This is real sacrifice.   ABU3054

They are truly self-sacrificing in the path of God to the extent possible.   AB02778

thousands of devoted ones in the Orient hastened to the field of sacrifice   AB05104

"Accept from me this sacrifice in Thy path, O Lord of the highest heavens"   AB02468

And if thou longest for the divine precinct, freely offer up heart and soul.  AB09491

that we may be assisted to sacrifice our hearts and souls in the divine path  AB02176

"If thou art aspiring to eternal life, sacrifice thy soul in the way of God."  AB01722

having made me a target for the darts of destiny for the exaltation of Thy Word  BH11261

this father has endured boundless trials and tribulations in the path of truth   AB07444

"some men sell their very souls" shows the greater excellence of pure devotion.  AB09421

that thou mayest sacrifice thyself with heart and soul in the path of the Lord   AB03404

I am not gathering armies of war, rather I am preparing the field of sacrifice.  ABU1167

"O my Lord! I desire to lay down my life in Thy path if Thou accept it from me"   BH10057

rushed forth into the arena of sacrifice, cut themselves free from all save God   AB01211

We must all with the utmost joy and cheerfulness sacrifice our lives for the Truth!  AB06545

sacrifice thy head and life in love and devotion to the Beauty of the All-Merciful   AB06302


And for such a Lord it behooveth us to sacrifice our spirits and all that we possess   BH06442

so that thou mayest become valiant in the battlefield against demons and evil spirits  AB10033

these wanderers have sacrificed all physical and spiritual affairs in the path of God  AB07054

now that you have sacrificed your beard and its roots in the path of the love of God   AB02547

"so that at every moment thou mayest sacrifice thyself before the face of the Beloved"   AB12480

they will sacrifice themselves with the utmost devotion, finding joy in their sacrifice  AB12457

They gave up their possessions to plunder and their hearts and souls to tribute and tax  AB04382

O blessedness to thee in that thou wert enabled to sacrifice in the path of the Glory!   AB01364

every maidservant who arises in this day in the mystery of sacrifice in the path of God  ABU3108

All of you may help each other and be ever ready to sacrifice your lives for each other.  AB11431

Indeed, you sacrificed your life, wealth, comfort and health for the sake of Baha'u'llah  AB05794

By God! Through you the tale of sacrifice was renewed, and the Concourse on High lamented  BH03672

His life, his identity, his heart and his body are gladly sacrificed in the Path of Baha!  AB10291

Whatever befell thee in the path of God hath not been and will never be lost in His sight.  BH08744

the Most Great Ocean hath sprinkled upon thee while He was in the hands of the oppressors   BH05830

If thou art intoxicated with the cup of the love of God, hasten to the field of sacrifice.  AB06365

May my spirit be offered up for Thy hurt, and my soul be a sacrifice for Thy tribulations.   BH06772

This is the fruit of the trees of oneness and the flowers of the rose-garden of uniqueness.  AB02260

Freely sacrifice soul, spirit and heart in the path of the Beloved of all possible things.   AB05711

Muhammad Taqi Khan and his companions voluntarily descend from safety to face certain death   AB00724

in the arena of sacrifice thou wert superior to that legendary champion of the land of Zabul  AB09973

O would that 'Abdu'l-Baha had freedom and could carry the clay for the building of that wall!  AB07251

But the others (the recipients of such love) must also be disinterested and life-sacrificing.  ABU2692

you migrated from your homeland to the Blessed Spot to witness the greatest signs of your Lord  AB02859

I hope that in the path of the Love of God thou mayest sacrifice thyself and thus attain joy.   AB04451

through Whom those drawn nigh have sacrificed their souls in their quest for reunion with Thee   BH09513

so that He shall destine to thee the honor of sacrifice in the path of thy Beloved, the Ancient  AB06434

Indeed, he sacrificed his soul for Prague and offered his body as an oblation for the friends.   AB01705

'and sacrifice themselves, freely offering up their very being in the path of the All-Merciful'   AB05555

However, for those who are steadfast it is an arena of sacrifice and a divine altar of offering.   AB01565

O sacrifice of God, turn not back from love's altar, But give up thy life in the pathway of love!   BH02842

Yet Thou knowest that I have not sought preservation for myself in Thy path, nor rest in Thy love.  BH07669

My loved ones who have forsaken their homes for the sake of God, the Single One, the All-Informed   BH09596

at every moment he may plunge into the sea of sacrifice, at every hour he may render some service   AB06709

until you expend your spirit, your body, your possessions and all that you have in the path of God  AB05913

Sacrifice life and wealth and rest and comfort, that thou mayest become exalted in the divine world  AB10123

with a radiant face and endless joy, you may freely sacrifice your soul in the path of the Beloved   AB06485

imprisonment in the path of the Beloved is a palace, and chains and bonds are freedom in both worlds  AB12162

Let each sacrifice himself for the other, that joy may be attained and heavenly delight made manifest  AB08340

A servant of the threshold of Baha must needs be possessed of wakefulness, must demonstrate sacrifice  AB07004

that each may sacrifice himself for the other and shower forth gems, hasten to the field of sacrifice   AB06735

Would that I had a thousand souls to spend in Thy path, and a thousand lives to sacrifice in Thy love!   BH03952

Since death is ordained, how wonderful were it to come in the Cause of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy!  BH05557

I swear by the Resplendent Beauty that self-sacrifice in His path is sweet, not the pursuit of pleasure.   AB05575

Furthermore, the Spiritual Assembly and the friends of God must show the utmost sacrifice in this matter.  AB09297

O Baha'u'llah! May my life be sacrificed for Thee! O Baha'u'llah! May my soul be offered up for Thy sake!   ABU3282

We hope, through the favor of god, to be able to do all that the others did in the beginning of the Cause!   ABU1961

Try to sacrifice something for the believers. Do not keep away from them, but give up everything you have.   ABU0811

"A hundred thousand living hearts are needed on this path / To sacrifice a hundred lives with every breath"   AB05617

And verily I am a servant who has believed in Him and in His verses and have sacrificed my soul in His path   AB06524

they must completely efface themselves and have no desire except to sacrifice their life on the altar of love  AB01736

the loved ones of God must sacrifice their lives for one another and prefer others' good to their own benefit   AB05178

thou must sacrifice thy soul and heart for the Merciful Beauty and offer thy head and neck to the kind Beloved  AB03436

The accepted servant at the court of the One becomes self-sacrificing, becomes a sacrifice to the true Beloved  AB03872

Faithfulness demands self-sacrifice and the giving up of one's life in the Path of that Beloved of the regions.  AB11104

The wise soul sacrifices his life for a mighty Cause, not for dust--for the life of souls, not for their death.   ABU0951

Then know that We have spent all that We had and all that was due Us in the ways of God, the Mighty, the Praised  BH02682

We have desired naught for Our Self; We have sacrificed it for the Cause of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH07188

when she sacrificed her life and soul for Christ, observe how she shone like a star from the horizon of the world  AB06571

"Among the wondrous works and marvelous mysteries of the Lord in every age and cycle was the mystery of sacrifice"  AB01837

Sacrifice thy head in the path of the Most Glorious Beloved and offer up thy life at the feet of the servants of God  AB05833

O thou who hast sacrificed thy spirit, thy soul, thy life, thy body, thy heart and thy very being in the path of God  AB02008

nay rather they may adore each other and sacrifice their wealth, comfort, life and spirit for the sake of each other.  AB05001


May my life, my inmost being, my soul and my body be offered up as a sacrifice for the dust ennobled by His footsteps.  BB00534

meaning that you completely sacrifice heart and soul for the Beloved and forsake family, lineage, self and belongings?  AB01580

"They sacrifice their souls and hasten to the altar of sacrifice, longing to ascend to the paradise of meeting Thee."   AB00483

We have sacrificed Our very selves and Our spirits for the salvation of the world, and God is cognizant of what I say.   BH08085

The spirit is beloved if it be sacrificed in Thy path, and the body acceptable if it be cast upon the dust in Thy name.  BH01543

strove and sacrificed with your spirit, essence, self, body, outer being and inner being in service to the Cause of God  AB02621



O God! I am prepared to meet all calamities in Thy way and desire every trouble for Thy sake with all my heart and soul  AB11758

thou wouldst, in thy love for My name and thy longing for My glorious and sublime Kingdom, lay down thy life in My path   BH08663


We hope that all the friends will sacrifice themselves, find joy in their sacrifice, and through this joy attain success  AB04428

Thou seest Thy loved ones, detached from their homes...They have borne hardships by land and sea, drawing nigh unto Thee   BH07671

If thou wouldst hearken to a single word with the ear of the spirit, thou wouldst freely sacrifice thy life in His path.   BH06994

The wandering led to distress, and the restlessness caused illness. He became sick and weak, separated and without remedy  AB04033

In any case, as much as you can, sacrifice your life and find joy in offering yourself as a sacrifice in the path of love  AB05080

My God, my God! This is my spirit, my soul, my body, and my limbs. I desire to sacrifice them in Thy love and in Thy path.  BH01059

Thou art among those who have borne the Trust and sacrificed thyself in the path of God, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.   BH08422

If thou dreamest of keeping thy life, come not here / But if thou wouldst offer thy heart and soul, come and bring them too  AB04818

sacrifice your soul, spirit and peace of mind so that you may become the manifestation of divine grace from all directions   AB06372

this servant has drunk the cup of tribulation in Thy path and has tasted the bitterness of calamities in his love for Thee   AB03673

You offered up your life and material possessions. You considered it a blessing when your homes were looted and plundered.   AB02656

How sweet, O my God, is the poison of death in Your love, and how delicious is the bitterness of annihilation in Your path   AB00396

Therefore, if you seek eternal life, become a sacrifice, and if you desire endless existence, become effaced and evanescent.  AB09168

The condition of faithfulness among the loved ones is to bear great hardship so they may arise with the mystery of sacrifice  AB07327

They who have kept their covenant with God and His testament are indeed the choicest of all creation in the Preserved Tablet.  BH02364

This station is the mystery of sacrifice, whether outwardly realized or not - the essential thing is to arise to this station  AB07945


Therefore, if you seek eternal life, become a martyr, and if you desire endless existence, become self-effacing and evanescent.  AB09168

That is, the crop which those fathers planted, these sons are watering; the palm tree which they planted, these are nurturing.   AB01015

Enter ye upon the arena of sacrifice, think ye of the Cause of your Lord, offer your lives and identities at the Altar of Love.  ABU0567

Though this wish of mine be the wish of a human creature, yet Thou knowest that my true wish is to sacrifice myself in Thy path.  BH05894

If you harbor thoughts of preserving your life, come not here But if you would sacrifice soul and heart, come and bring them too  AB01533


We have sacrificed Our souls in the path of God and summon all from the horizon of tribulation unto God, the Possessor of Names.   BH03226

Teach thou the lovers of the beauty of the Best-Beloved those lessons of ardour, those ways to sacrifice befittingly in His path.  AB08159

True faithfulness is when I become wandering and nameless and in the field of sacrifice become the target of the arrow of cruelty   AB03490

However much you may wail and cry out, and seek to sacrifice your life in the path of that Kind Beloved, it is fitting and worthy   AB03796


Though they may fear for their bodies, We do not fear, for We have sacrificed Our body in the love of God, the Exalted, the Great.   BH05097

In this day service at the sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty and steadfastness in His Cause is the real sacrifice of the self.  AB09180

This is just at the start for by the time one reaches the end of one's life one should have sacrificed oneself utterly in His Path.  AB03849

some, like Zulaykha, yearned for union with the Beloved, sacrificing life and wealth and honor and name and reason and understanding  AB10524

All tribes are striving to acquire these gifts and bounties, and all peoples are sacrificing their lives to attain these qualities.   AB02768

freely and generously sacrificed His soul and heart and kindred and children and all His possessions in the path of the All-Merciful  AB10614

My greatest longing is also to sacrifice myself in the path of the believers. There is nothing sweeter and more wonderful than this!   ABU1371


as though thou hadst perished all things within thyself for the preservation of thy countenance and the perpetuation of thine essence   BH07498

"They have forsaken slumber and bade farewell to sleep, renounced existence and fallen prostrate before the grandeur of Thy Lordship"   AB03832

Truly, you are sacrificing your lives in the path of the Kingdom and have no desire except to spread the lights throughout all regions.  AB03251

to sacrifice themselves in the path of the Friend, counting all that exists in the world and whatsoever is related to it as non-existent  BH02107

All great movements have advanced through altruism, selfishness and self-sacrifice, and not through the interchange of public opinion.  ABU1057


To sacrifice one's life in this station is the greatest gift in the human world and the cause of nearness to the Threshold of the Lord.   AB04314

In any case, your endurance of these hardships is a sacrifice of life, and assuredly this sacrifice will yield the fruit of eternal joy.  AB11352

All this, my God, hath come to pass in Thy path and happened for love of Thee, while Thy loved ones are aflame with the fire of Thy love   AB01460

Sacrifice this earthly frame for the Celestial Beloved and offer this contingent temple as an oblation to the Beloved of the realms beyond  BH09280

And this bounty is yours because you preferred another over yourself, as it is stated in the Qur'an: "and prefer others before themselves."  AB08561

If you harbor thoughts of life within your heart, come not here / But if you'll sacrifice both heart and soul, then come and bring them too   AB00950

In this day service at the sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty and steadfastness in the Cause of His love is the real sacrifice of the self.  AB09180

After enduring great hardships, he took his heart and soul in hand, hastened to the altar of love, and offered them in the path of the Beloved.  AB04285

Man tasteth the cup of death but once; now if this should come to pass for the sake of God, its fragrance would perfume the world of existence.   BH04139

Sacrifice this earthly frame for the Beloved of Heaven, and offer up this contingent temple as an oblation to the Beloved of the Placeless Realm  AB07905

I love to sacrifice myself in Thy love and good-pleasure, and to be protected for the manifestation of Thy Cause and the exaltation of Thy Word.   BH05466

Indeed your absence causes hardship for your relations, but since it is in the path of the Lord it causes no harm, rather it is a bounty itself.   AB01363

Sacrifice of life is of two kinds. To be killed for the Cause is not so difficult as to live for it in absolute obedience to the commands of God.  ABU2531

One is to forfeit possessions, to forfeit estates. One is to forego name, honor, fame. One is to forsake relatives, station, Et Cetera, et cetera  ABU3419

He had been especially touched by the gifts of some children in America who had saved car fares by walking and given the money to the Temple fund.  ABU1785





Would ye slay Him Who hath sacrificed His soul in the path of God and made known unto you what the Most High, the Most Great, hath desired for you?   BH04328

Thus may they attain that attitude of sacrificing even life for one another. For the love of one another they should sacrifice all that is possible.  AB07136

Say: Sacrifice them, O people, in My path - this is the true sacrifice in the love of the All-Merciful, which none comprehend save the sincere ones.   BH05876

How sweet is the deadly poison suffered in Thy path, and how precious are the arrows of Thy enemies when encountered for the exaltation of Thy Word!   BH04461

"Under chains and fetters, like a lion in the jungle of detachment, he was engaged with utmost joy and delight in offering praise and glorification"   AB02070

Every stone of that building, every stone of the road leading to it I have with infinite tears and at tremendous cost, raised and placed in position   ABU3553

God be praised! he said. Nothing is left me on this pathway. I have lost everything, including my bride. I have been able to give Him all I possessed.  AB00002

The might of the divines and rulers did not prevent Him from speaking the word of truth. He spoke that which was the cause of exaltation and ascension   BH07991

Turn ye unto your Creator and slay your souls in the path of God, the Truth, in humility before God, the Most High, for God is mighty and praiseworthy.  BB00002

At every breath may a hundred thousand lives be sacrificed for the Beloved, and may a hundred thousand souls be offered for His life-increasing smiles.  AB00367

God willing, until thy last breath thou wilt sacrifice thy precious life in the path of the Mighty Lord. What bounty is this and what grace and glory!   AB04724

My health, comfort, life and death are of no importance - may a hundred thousand like me be sacrificed for a single hair of the Temple of God's Cause.   AB02350

The True One, glorified be His majesty, left His homeland and chose exile so that this exile might lead the exiles of the earth to their true homeland.   BH09699

Truly, thou didst endure great hardships in the path of God and didst kindle the lamp of the Most Truthful Name of God with the fire of the love of God.  AB07447

They sacrificed their souls in the manifest and straight Path... performed such deeds in the path of God as bewildered the hearts of those near unto Him   BH03085

He must live for ever in the station of sacrifice and be ready to forgo all his material conditions. That is why it is so difficult, extremely difficult.  ABU2612

Would that every calamity might rain upon 'Abdu'l-Baha in this way that he could become a ransom for the suffering of the friends of the Ancient Beauty.   AB05697

"Ordain for me what Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones who have soared in the atmosphere of Thy love and who have offered up their souls in Thy path."  BH05044

You have sacrificed your spirits and offered up your bodies and become intoxicated from the overflowing cups of sacrifice in the path of the All-Glorious   AB04226

Since you have stepped upon this path and drunk from this heavenly spring, you must freely give your life in the path of love for the Beloved of the worlds  AB09232

Consider how they gloried in sacrificing themselves for a piece of earth, and how much more one should pride himself in sacrificing for the Lord of Hosts!   ABU0824

O sacrifice of God, from love's altar-place / Turn not back, but give thy life in love's ways / And this sacrifice returned not alive from the altar-place.   BH02246

Therefore, may the cup of divine love that thou hast drunk be pleasant and the bondage of His love that thou hast entered a blessing and endless happiness.   AB04941

"endured in Baha's path every hardship and affliction...they left no abuse except that they inflicted it upon your precious body and tortured you severely"   AB02484

In truth, such a pure soul must sacrifice their life in the path of the Covenant in such a way that the horizons become illumined with the light of dawning   AB06298

I beseech Thee not to disappoint me of that which Thou hast ordained for Thy chosen ones and trustees who have sacrificed their wealth and souls in Thy path.  BH11723

Accordingly, it is incumbent upon thee to be purely sincere, to turn to the holy Kingdom and to generously give the spirit in the cause of the Lord of Might.  AB09006

The body must be laid down for each step of spiritual progress, just as matter was taken up for each step of material progress. This is the law of sacrifice.  ABU0299



On the contrary man should be willing to accept hardships for himself in order that others may be happy. This is characteristic of man, this is becoming to man.  ABU1527

"the Name of God, the Sacrifice, for he hath sacrificed himself in the path of his Lord in such wise as would be deemed worthy of mention in the straight path."   BB00314

This righteous deed brought great joy, that the handmaidens of the All-Merciful are so self-sacrificing and are among those who sacrifice their wealth and lives.  AB05551

If any occasion befalleth and cases of tests come up, they will sacrifice their precious lives for the sake of the friends and freely give all their possessions.  AB01956

The attributes of generosity, of munificence and magnanimity can only be manifested in the reality of man when he ariseth to sacrifice himself in the path of God.  AB10074

freely offer up heart and soul. Otherwise this journey will never reach its end, the goal will remain unattained, and the Beloved will not unveil His countenance.  AB09491

Therefore this is the time for steadfastness and the moment for glad-tidings, the day of sacrifice and the time of joy - and sacrifice is the essence of success.   AB04511

Would that thou possessed a myriad castles and lofty mansions, mighty palaces and edifices, so that every day one were destroyed in the path of the Best-Beloved.   AB04701

The Bahais should sacrifice life in the path of each other...One of the friends said: 'I am he' so that the Shah might kill him and the other friend might go free.  ABU1004

and hastens to the field of sacrifice, attracted to the Abha Kingdom, speaketh forth the praise of Thy Lord the Most Exalted, immortal in the Most Sublime Paradise  AB02485

By God! Wert thou to find the sweetness of My remembrance, thou wouldst sacrifice thyself in My path and arise among the handmaidens with My remembrance and praise.  BH08054

In the divine days he sacrificed in the path of the Friend all that he possessed. All the Concourse on High desired to make the sacrifice, but He did not accept it.   BH10452

Since you have set foot upon this path and drunk from this celestial spring, you must freely sacrifice your life in the path of the love of the Beloved of the worlds  AB09232

I beseech God that He may provide the means whereby thou mayest be delivered from this state of melancholy and sacrifice both soul and substance in the path of truth  AB07599

sacrifice their transient days for eternal life...sacrifices life and head in the Most Great Cause and ultimately raises the banner of sacrifice in the altar of love  AB01691

Pure souls have never been concerned with their own comfort and ease. Rather, solely for the enlightenment of all, they have forsaken sweetness and endured the sting.  AB03792

Therefore, so long as you have life, strive to freely sacrifice both soul and heart in the path of the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be offered up for His loved ones  AB07700


Dear Lord, if I were to sink into oblivion, if I were to be forgotten like Victoria, still I should want to pour out my life as a sacrifice to Thee for love of Thee.   ABU2364

so that sincere intention to serve the Cause of God would be kneaded into our nature and we would become helpless in our sacrifice - never resting or seeking comfort.  AB00393

It is my prayer that thou mayest become a moth that burns its wings in the flaming candle of the love of God, a salamander of love and desire in the fiery path of God.  AB08901

Arise by God's leave and make mention of Him. He will protect thee, and He hath power over all things. Thus hath the Pen taught thee. Arise and fear not the oppressors.  BH05557

"But this pride of men, since she gave her life in the path of the All-Merciful, her effects still endure and her mention continues in the gathering of divine friends."  AB02482

She let down her beautiful hair, and herself rode at the head of her army, clad in a scarlet cloak, wearing a crown of gold, and wielding a two-edged sword in her hand.   ABU1413

From the day he drank the pure wine of the love of God, he sacrificed his spirit, heart and body in God's path, and each day he longed to drink from this joy-giving cup.   AB01393


Grant that I may sacrifice my life and attain to my heart's desire, that I may place the crown of bounty upon my head and raise the cry of 'O Glory of the Most Glorious!'  AB11974

In reality she is attracted and will bear every calamity and trial in the path of the Blessed Perfection and this very thing will be conducive to her spiritual development.  AB02954

O Dhabih! When thou desirest the station of sacrifice in complete evanescence, accept no alteration. Sacrifice thyself for love of God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds.   BH04683

And amongst the people is he who selleth his soul in his eagerness to behold the countenance of God. Not until one acteth thus will the manifest light shine upon one's brow.  AB06443

Take up such a work that the self-sacrificing ones of the past are forgotten, and hasten to the divine altar of sacrifice in such a way that offering one's life becomes bliss.  AB01681

Reflect upon Khadijah of a former time. Neither wealth nor property, neither blame nor persecution prevented her from God. She sacrificed her life and gave freely of her wealth  BH03155

showing such self-sacrifice in the path of the Intended Lord that it becomes evident and manifest that these souls are indeed the worthy successors of those noble predecessors   AB02762

A mother who sacrifices such a precious gem in the path of God is herself a pearl from the shell of faith and certitude and a brilliant jewel from the ocean of grace and bounty   AB04484

If in this age of the bounty of the Blessed Beauty one does not sacrifice his life, in what other century of the world's centuries will he seek exaltation, ascent and progress?   AB03748

I am he, O my God, who hath embraced Thy love and accepted all the adversities which the world can inflict, who hath offered up himself as a ransom for the sake of Thy loved ones   BH09383

Here is my head, here is my heart, strike, strike hard this lifeless lover. This Dervish will gamble away his life in Thy path, 'Though the gift of life ill beseemeth the Beloved.  BH05338

Perhaps you may reach the point of having to sacrifice your lives and spend your wealth on this path. Anyone whose aim is lofty must make every difficulty acceptable to themselves  ABU0478

they rejoice over their trials. O God! these, their enemies did not know; if they knew they would [not] have acted in this manner. This has ever been their custom in the past ages.  AB02851

thy dream is this, that thou wilt render devoted service in the Blessed Cause, and wilt sacrifice thy soul, heart, spirit, body and all thy name and trace unto the Abha Beloved One.  AB03475

Be eager to suffer for such an end. Forget yourself, forget personal danger, personal evil and inconvenience. Have no fear of evil to yourself in the great cause of unity and peace.  ABU1805


No affair in the world succeeds without sacrifice. Up to now twenty thousand persons have been sacrificed for this Cause. The Baha'is have accepted every affliction and persecution.  ABU1440

Consider that giving one's life in this battle is finding life - Christ waged battle upon the cross and at the moment of sacrificing His life was victorious over kings and subjects.   ABU2542


That which causes the brow to shine with manifest light is to arise with utmost strength in this mighty Cause and to sacrifice oneself in the path of the Lord of mercy and compassion  AB04681

Until you give your life, you will not reach the Beloved; until you become detached, you will not attain; until you burn, you will not illuminate; until you weep, you will not laugh   AB04383

I testify that Thou hast forsaken rest for the elevation of the nations, accepted abasement for the glory of the world, and chosen exile that servants might reach the Supreme Homeland  BH01742

According to the ordinances of the Bible, anyone committing a sin must offer a sacrifice. When Christ appeared He desired to make a symbol of Himself, so He said 'I am the atonement'.  ABU2477

Therefore, in thanksgiving for this most great bounty and supreme favor, one must take the divine cup in hand and, dancing in the arena of sacrifice, bestow it upon all created things.  AB08204

Where are those souls of whom He says "and give them preference over themselves, even though poverty be their own lot"? And where are those souls who act for God's sake and turn to God?  BH01190

The Glory shining from the horizon of the heaven of favors be upon the people of Baha who have not been frightened by the hosts of the world nor weakened by the power of the wicked ones.  BH06205

"This is among the greatest of divine favors that He bestows the mighty profit of being sacrificed in His path upon souls that would certainly depart this world without benefit or fruit"  AB01286

You wrote about the difficulty of affairs for the teachers. The state of Christ's apostles is known - when teachers live in utmost difficulty, it has a profound effect on seeking souls.   AB11655

Give up your head that you may raise it like a banner. Scatter your life that you may plant the sapling of hopes and desires in the garden of the bounty of His Holiness the Divine Unity.   AB02871

"What greater happiness for man than to sacrifice his life in the Path of his Maker!"  ABU1099



Sacrificing yourselves under all conditions and circumstances, and glorious--so that ye may by filled with the Love of El-Baha and that in ye nothing remains except the abundance of El-Baha.  AB04938

Surely you know with what joy and delight the faithful friends drank that brimming cup, and how they hastened to the altar of love crying "O rapture! O joy! O glad tidings! O blessedness!"   AB03952

Among the things I said, I disavowed any intention of amassing an army to wage wars, and stated that I had, rather, prepared an arena where people may lay down their lives [for this Faith].  ABU3696


Your esteemed letter arrived and brought the utmost joy and delight, for it was clear evidence of your self-sacrifice and manifest proof of your steadfastness and firmness in the Divine Cause  AB00898

Faithfulness and purity lie in freely sacrificing our lives and offering up our comfort, ease, joy and delight in His path. For love of Him is the soul's repose and the conscience's comfort.   AB00752

Therefore, O thou who art firmly rooted in the Covenant of God, sacrifice thy life in the path of the Ancient Beauty, that thou mayest become a manifestation of the signs of the All-Merciful.  AB08665

He is of those souls concerning whom the Primal Point hath said: "Verily I, and all who dwell in Paradise, do truly yearn, with utmost yearning, for the soul that hath been slain in His path"   BH06412

If thou seekest the eternal sovereignty of the world, sacrifice thy life like thy noble namesake. If thou desirest the crown of everlasting dominion, offer up thy head in the path of the Lord.  AB10918

The poisonous sting of the sword is preferable to them than all the panaceas that promise healing and the lethal arrows of cruelty seem to them to be a balm of faithfulness and sweet medicine.  AB04827

Ye have borne in God's path that which none else hath borne...In truth, ye have heard taunts and witnessed abasement, and for the sake of God ye have renounced all that pertaineth to the world   BH03765

become the target of the taunts, curses, abuse, charges of unbelief and immorality, and doubts of the nations, so that you may receive a drop from the ocean of tribulations of the Ancient Beauty  AB03411

They who have sacrificed their souls in My path are of the people of Baha. The Concourse on High will seek blessings from the dust of their footsteps. O blessed be this glorious, mighty station!   BH04015

powerful expression of sacrificial love: "I passed not by a tree but My heart addressed it saying: 'Would that thou wert cut down in My name and My body were crucified upon thee in God's path.'"   BH02129

O Amin! Reflect upon the lovers in all regions who, with perfect submission and contentment, have sacrificed their souls - the most exalted and precious of all things - for the One True Beloved.   BH00384

"Die if you would be a devoted lover, for you have done all else yet still live," and cried out with his heart's tongue: "Kill me, kill me, O trustworthy ones, for in my death is life upon life."  AB02087

How ignorant are the people! They are willing to forfeit their possession, honor, wealth, property and even life in the path of their country but unwilling to do any sacrifice in the path of God.   ABU1123

How sweet to my taste is the bitterness of death suffered in Thy path, and how precious in my estimation are the shafts of Thine enemies when encountered for the sake of the exaltation of Thy word!  BH02524

She was astir and restless every hour of her life. Moth-like she circled in adoration round the undying flame of the Divine Candle, her spirit ablaze and her heart consumed by the fire of His love.  AB10007


These are the days of service; this is the time to burn with the love of God... Be sacrificing in the path of love towards each other so that ye may be accepted in the threshold of the One True God.  AB02335

the scene of sacrifice is seen bedecked with such splendid pageantry, such marvellous festivity that the holy ecstasy of its wine seizeth forevermore the minds of those that are godly and spiritual   AB03172

I beseech Thee by the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and the lights of Thy Throne, O Lord of all beings, to make me one of those who have sacrificed their souls and all they possessed in Thy path.   BH03531

Solomon Khan endured extreme torture while maintaining perfect composure and joy, even praying during his dismemberment. "Ponder on this story that you may understand the mystic power of sacrifice."   ABU0451

I am aware of all the afflictions, trials, hardships and tribulations that have befallen you, and I know how difficult these days have been and how obstinate these oppressive and ignorant people are.   AB02403

He left behind family and kin in the prime of youth and springtime of life... He was persecuted, O my God, by all peoples and enemies, and was burned by the fire of their hatred blazing to the heavens   AB00680

"'What! Art thou so attached to thy donkey that thou canst not leave it behind, while I have left everything, palace, villages, comfort and wealth? Hast thou not yet learned the lesson of severance?'"   ABU0450

I beseech God that day by day our eagerness and joy may increase, and our enthusiasm and delight may grow, until we all prepare our souls and hearts and sacrifice them in the path of that Kind Beloved.  AB04055


He sacrifices his life in the path of God and offers up his soul at the altar of love...They have no purpose save the good-pleasure of the Divine Beloved and no desire except sacrifice in the path of God  AB12334

And the Spirit mourneth, saying: I would sacrifice myself that there might not befall Thee that which would sadden Thy heart... I have chosen, in My love for Thee, the afflictions of all who are on earth   BH03149

Thanks be to God that He has trained such friends and raised up such souls beneath the shade of the Word of Unity, who freely sacrifice their wealth, lives, name and fame in the path of that Kind Beloved.  AB12237

Make me the target for arrows aimed at Thy loved ones and the mark for spears directed at the hearts of Thy chosen ones, that I may sacrifice for them my spirit, essence, body, being, reality and identity.  AB00463

I have not preserved myself for even an hour, and I have been as a burning fire among Thy sinful servants, as a shining lamp before Thine enemies, and as the rising sun above the heads of the wretched ones.  BH01653

"My soul be a sacrifice for Thee, O Thou Who hast offered up Thyself for the salvation of the world. My spirit be a ransom for Thy prison, O Thou Who hast borne tribulations for the life of all in the lands."  BH04863

Blessed, then blessed is he who purposed to seek the Purpose of the world and sacrificed his spirit when the clamor of the nations was raised, in the path of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01287

As to what thou didst mention concerning Hassan whose hand was severed in the path of God, the Lord of all men, by My life! We shall surely give him wings wherewith to soar in the atmosphere of the Kingdom.  BH00239

Any soul that does not sacrifice in the path of the beloved that soul is lower than the body itself. Any head that is not offered as a sacrifice in the path of the beloved of the world is lower than the foot.  AB04298

That which thou didst mention caused boundless joy, for thou art prepared to sacrifice thy spirit and carry out the decree. Well is it with thee! This truly is the station of lovers on the Day of the Covenant.  BH03953


For example if they bring me under the sword of the executioner and threaten me that unless I deny my belief they will behead me I will sacrifice my life in His Holiness' Path with the utmost joy and happiness.  ABU3056

In any case, we exiles are in utmost contentment and joy, even yearning and longing for sacrifice. O Lord! Ordain for Thy poor and helpless servant to drink from that cup which overflows with Thy great bounty.   AB00693




O ye moth-like lovers of His light! Brave every danger, and consecrate your souls to its consuming flame. O ye that thirst after Him! Strip yourselves of every earthly affection, and hasten to embrace your Beloved.  BH02198

The intention of heart and soul is to sacrifice life in the path of the Beloved. Given this, what other consideration remains, even if a hundred thousand arrows and spears should strike the target of heart and soul?  AB02294

who endured every calamity in Your path and was patient through every affliction in Your way and tasted every bitterness in seeking Your good-pleasure and drank the bitter draught of every tribulation in Your decree   AB05490

it is the station of the attainment of the mystery of sacrifice, whereupon the lights of love, harmony and salvation shine forth and the manifestation of firmness dawns, in a cause unendurable by the lofty mountains   AB03064

Thou art he who left his homeland for the love of God, Lord of the seen and unseen, and who departed from his house yearning to attain His presence, until thou didst surrender thy spirit in His love and good-pleasure.  BH01250

When a person is truly sacrificial, then he thoroughly forgets himself, dedicates his all in the path of the Blessed Beauty and arises in servitude in His love. No exultation and delight can ever be greater than this.  ABU0921

Service to the Blessed Threshold requireth one to sacrifice everything. In that state, I gave her up and entrusted her to the Blessed Beauty, proceeding with the sea voyage, for I am completely resigned [to His Will].   AB07091

He sought no rest neither did he breathe one breath of comfort. Notwithstanding the weakness of constitution, the infirmity of the body and the nervous fever, every night I was in a city and each day amongst a community.  AB09109


But Sulayman Khan, may my spirit be a sacrifice for him, was in the utmost joy and delight. At night he said to the executioner, Bring me a cup of tea, for tonight I am your guest, and tomorrow night I shall be God's guest.  ABU0183

"His holiness the Christ loved both his disciples and believers to such an extent that he sacrificed his life for them. His holiness the Supreme (the Bab), loved the friends to such an extent that he gave his life for them."  ABU0413

They have attained unto their desire and have sacrificed their souls and their wealth in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds, but the people have lost through their deeds. Soon shall they find themselves in manifest loss.  BH03745

Did Husayn, My name, lose when he sacrificed his spirit in the path of God, or did those who wronged him by following every remote transgressor? The Most Great Sacrifice and Supreme Offering have appeared in this mighty Cause.   BH01367

this Youth hath not guarded Himself but hath sacrificed His spirit in the path of God, the King, the Most High, the All-Wise, and hath chosen for Himself all tribulations that His loved ones might ascend unto the Kingdom of God  BH10825

In every breath, sacrifice thy life, and with every respiration become the target of an arrow, so that thou mayest sacrifice a hundred thousand lives for the Beloved and in every moment become a martyr in the path of the Lord.   AB06778

We are servants, offering up heart and soul in the path of the Beloved, and we count this as the greatest gift from the All-Merciful Lord...that he might be ready for sacrifice and through this sacrifice attain to true success   AB02345

Baha'u'llah has assured us that this Cause will transcend every difficulty and will rise above every persecution but this condition will not be realized except through the self-sacrifice and infinite wisdom of believers of God   ABU0418

One must sacrifice one's all in seeking the truth and become evanescent in its path so that one might obtain a portion from this ocean and be enlightened by a ray from its sun. This is what befits the truly wise and the discerning.  AB03452

We testify that he hath taken for himself, beneath the canopies of My grandeur, a station whereunto none hath attained save him who hath sacrificed his spirit and all that he possessed in the path of God, the Lord of all religions.   BH03619

Consider what station that Sun of Reality and Reality of Divinity (may my spirit, my being and my essence be sacrificed for His body) chose for Himself, that they hung Him in public and fired a thousand bullets at His blessed breast  AB01358

He must forgo his own rest and enjoyment and constantly strive to bring gladness to the hearts of his father and mother, that thereby he may attain the good pleasure of the Almighty and be graciously aided by the hosts of the unseen.  AB05586

O Mirza! If thine eye should oppose thee in what God hath commanded, pluck it out; if thy rib should oppose thee, divorce it; if thy brother, abandon him, holding fast to the cord of God's commandments, the Lord of the mighty throne.   BH00735

"O sacrifice of God! Turn not back from love's altar, But give up thy life in the pathway of love" And whatever has befallen those holy souls in the path of God has surely not been without effect, and its fruit will certainly appear.   BH02765

"We beseech God to change the sorrow of His loved ones into the Most Great Joy and to ordain for them what He hath ordained for His chosen ones who have sacrificed what they possessed of wealth, souls and bodies in His straight Path."  BH02343

her flesh and fat melted away from the hardships she endured in Your path. She was afflicted with illnesses and diseases that weakened her body, made her bones brittle and inflamed her insides, until the pains intensified in her heart  AB03272

Truly you are a wanderer in the path of God and without home or shelter, but this homelessness is better and sweeter than any home and shelter, for this yields results and bears fruit, while no home or shelter remains or bears fruit.   AB12171

dancing and leaping and whirling, with one hand holding the cup of the love of God and the other hand bearing the offering of your life, you may hasten to the altar of love and sacrifice this transient life for the face of the Beloved  AB10516

Consider how death is ordained and decreed for every soul in every circumstance, yet to yield up one's life in the path of the All-Merciful among the concourse of creation is a thousand times more excellent than to die upon one's bed.   BH00508


O my God! If it is in accord with Thy divine wisdom, bestow upon me good health and encircle me with Thine own Confirmation and assistance; - in order that I may sacrifice my life on Thy Path, concentrate all my energies in Thy service   ABU0575

for the purpose of teaching thou art wandering throughout the regions, homeless and without settled abode. This is the very essence of divine bounty and the bejewelled crown of everlasting sovereignty and ascension to the eternal throne.  AB08681

Even you, O Baha'i friend, will be able to walk the way to the Kingdom of God only through a life of action in obedience to God's Will and through daily suffering and dying in self-sacrifice. - How much more then the Holy Heralds of God?  ABU1479

Verily, thus mayest thou perform acts of high chivalry in the arena of divine Beauty and in the field of bounty of the Lord of Glory and mayest become a knight in the tournament of glory and a mighty player of the ball games of the spirit!  AB05705


I took this holy spirit and this divine light and this lordly essence in the palm of my hands, desiring to sacrifice it at Thy feet. This is the ultimate purpose of my existence in Thy dominion and the final goal of my seeking in Thy lands.   BH02468

This is triumph and success, glory and prosperity, for servitude to God is proven and established under chains and fetters, and before arrow and sword, not at a sumptuous table with honey and sweetmeats and vintage wine and overflowing cups.  AB04722

How many of the weak ones, after hearing the call, were seen to manifest such strength and power that neither the might and majesty of the world nor the massed ranks of the peoples could prevent them from turning to the Most Exalted Horizon.   BH00649

Although this candle yearns for extinction and hopes for the dominion of the winds of cruelty - for extinction in the path of God is illumination and dimness is brightness - would that this candle were beheaded at every moment and every hour   AB05722

So devotedly did he tend to Mr Sprague -- forgoing sleep and sustenance, and ever remaining by his side -- that Mr Sprague's illness infected Kay-Khusraw. Mr Sprague recovered, while Kay-Khusraw fell sick and eventually succumbed to his disease.  ABU3113

Then remember him who severed his own head, moved by the rapture of the Divine Call when he was present in Baghdad before the countenance of the Lord of all beings. He sacrificed his life to exalt the Word of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH00575


He passed his days in bitterness and bore the blame of every unbearable ill-omened one. This was solely out of love for Thy beauty, seeking reunion with Thee, yearning for the proximity of Thy mercy, pursuing Thy face, and longing to meet Thee.   AB02685


The attribute of self-sacrifice is specific to thy name and the desire to speed into the arena of selflessness is thy privilege. This is the arena of self-annihilation, of a hundred thousand acts of self-immolation, of being melted in pure love.   AB04400


"Thou art well aware, O my God, that throughout my life I have sought no advantage for myself. I have offered up my spirit and my whole being for the exaltation of Thy word amidst Thy creatures and the glorification of Thy name among Thy servants."  BH01974

those who have recognized Thy unity hastened to the scene of annihilation and the sincere ones to the place of sacrifice, and offered up their souls in their love for Thy beauty and their longing for reunion with Thee and attainment unto Thy presence  BH10276

I swear by the Sun of utterance which shineth from the horizon of the prison, should a soul sacrifice his life a hundred thousand times in the path of the Friend, verily it would be seen as non-existent and as naught compared to this most great bounty.  BH08383


that thou mayest become intoxicated with that overflowing cup and sacrifice this ephemeral life upon the divine altar, in order that thou mayest walk in the road of faithfulness and show forth firmness and steadfastness for the sake of the love of Baha'   AB07465

The purpose is this: it was the wish of that departed one to sacrifice himself. Praise be to God that he attained unto this gift, was exhilarated with this cup of favours and hastened unto the invisible kingdom of oneness in the utmost joy and gladness.   AB04050

He sacrificed his life repeatedly in Thy path and yearned for death in his longing to meet Thee, until he fulfilled his covenant while beseeching and supplicating before Thee, longing to attain Thy presence and yearning to ascend to Thy sacred threshold.  AB00982

O Lord! Bestow upon me a drop from that brimming cup, and waft to my nostrils a fragrance from that garden of sacrifice, that I may be attracted to all horizons, become bewildered and enchanted by that resplendent Beauty, and offer up my soul and spirit.  AB06100

Behold Thou my head ready to fall before the sword of Thy Will, my neck prepared to bear the chains of Thy Desire, my heart yearning to be made a target for the darts of Thy Decree, mine eyes expectant to gaze on the tokens and signs of Thy wondrous Mercy.  BH07166

One of the requirements of faithfulness is that thou mayest sacrifice thyself and, in the divine path, close thine eye to every pleasure and strive with all thy soul that thou mayest disappear and be lost, like unto a drop, in the ocean of the love of God.  AB11425

Were the people of the world to become aware, as they ought to be, of this divine bestowal that hath appeared in the assemblage of existence, thou wouldst witness hosts of lovers hastening to the altar of sacrifice, clapping their hands and dancing with joy.  AB08529


I beseech Thee by the fire of Thy beauty - if this head be worthy of the sword of Thy enemies in Thy path, delay not Thy grace regarding it; and if this breast be fitting for the arrows of Thy decree in Thy good-pleasure, then hasten this through Thy bounty.   BH06625


May my life, my essence, my heart, and my body be sacrificed in the pathway of Baha! This is the bounty of the Lord, and this is a bestowal beyond measure; this is the loving-kindness of the Blessed Beauty, and these are the confirmations of the One True God.  AB08008

Notwithstanding the weakness of constitution, the infirmity of the body and the nervous fever, every night He was in a city and each day amongst a community. Although at times He could not speak one word, before large audiences He delivered lengthy addresses.   AB09109

Also, for the sake of self-sacrifice, the Bab said, "O, my great Master, I give My life, my soul, and everything I have, in Your path, and I desire nothing of men but their curses, because You are the sufficient for me, and God is a witness to this utterance."  ABU0808

Until now, surely twenty thousand people have hastened to the field of sacrifice in promoting these teachings of Baha'u'llah and have sacrificed life and property. Every undertaking advances through sacrifice of life, not through the exchange of general ideas.  AB01146


They passed beyond self and became detached from stranger and kin. They inhaled the sweet fragrance of that musk-laden tress and became enchanted, involuntarily longing for the gleaming sword. They laid down their heads and offered their throats to the dagger.   AB00656

For the past few years I have had no rest by day or night. I have been working constantly. Often in the middle of night when I was in bed, they would bring to me the word that such and such a person had called and I would get up and dress again to receive him.   ABU2904

He had no thoughts, will or desire of his own, and at all times awaited God's command. He would take no action without God's leave and permission. For years he had sacrificed himself in the path of the Friend, though outwardly he spoke, listened and walked about.  BH00534

His honor Fa'iz has ascended to the Supreme Horizon. His honor the Ismu'llahu'l-Asdaq, upon him be the Most Glorious Glory of God, was always intimate with this exalted Cause and coupled with sacrifice. He never rested nor laid his head upon the pillow of comfort.   AB06687



In reality thy household have sacrificed every condition in life in the Path of the Blessed Perfection; this family of Nayyar and Sina have forgotten every thought and given up every aspiration for the sake of the Cause and because of this I love them most devotedly.  ABU1328

I yield Thee thanks, O my God, for that Thou hast offered me up as a sacrifice in Thy path, and made me a target for the arrows of afflictions as a token of Thy love for Thy servants, and singled me out for all manner of tribulation for the regeneration of Thy people.  BH02536

To sacrifice life and wealth, glory and possessions in the path of God is among the greatest of divine confirmations and the most mighty of heavenly reinforcements, for this station is the rank of complete sacrifice which is the highest aspiration of God's chosen ones.  AB08151

Ye are they through whose arising to serve the Cause the servants arose to that which God desired in the final return. I testify that through you the gate of generosity was opened upon the manifestations of existence, and the foundations of ranks and hosts were shaken.   BH01271

According to the belief of the followers of the Qur'an, His Holiness Ishmael, or according to the explicit texts of the Torah, His Holiness Isaac, hastened to the altar of sacrifice with the utmost joy, dancing and leaping. He laid his head beneath the blade and dagger.  AB09967

"We desire to have teachers in this Cause who sacrifice all their belongings, possessions, heart, life and spirit to the Cause of God. This will be very effective. The Cause must be promulgated with devotion and personal sacrifice and not through financial operations."   ABU2322

it is time to sacrifice your lives in gratitude for the favors of the Abha Beauty, and to rejoice in this sacrifice, and in utmost joy hasten to the divine altar in His path of love. Do not be miserly in offering up your spirit, and do not withhold in giving all things.  AB11651


and upon His family and companions - those who sacrificed their lives and possessions in the path of God and strove with the utmost diligence to aid His Cause, and who arose to manifest the truth with such arising that the peoples of the world were powerless to prevent it  BH01433

Those holy souls whose servitude 'Abdu'l-Baha seeks as eternal glory - they all endured the utmost trials and tribulations. Is it befitting and proper loyalty that I should seek comfort and ease, or freedom from prison? No, by God, this is not faithfulness in God's Cause!  AB01481

Given this, how can we rest for a moment, find patience and composure, show negligence, or let slip the opportunity? Now is the time to forget ourselves, become intoxicated with the spirit of sacrifice, and rejoice, that we may attain to success in the Kingdom of holiness.  AB02150


Now is the time that we may sacrifice, for the sake of the Love of that Beloved, our spirit, our soul, our heart, our mind, our property, our life and our all; and to wish for nothing but His good pleasure, search for nothing but His Path, and desire nothing but His Service!   AB05984

One should kiss the hand of the assassin and dance joyously towards the path of the Friend. How blessed is this hour and how sweet is this time when the spiritual soul is ready to sacrifice itself and the temple of faithfulness has resolved to ascend the heights of extinction.  BH00746

When I observed they are so terrified I asked the believers to follow me so that we may reconnoiter what they called the 'riding robbers.' We galloped our horses at full speed... I did not listen to their advice and with the force of stirrups stirred my horse to a full speed.   ABU0620

O Lord, O Lord! Calamity hath encompassed all regions, and the earth hath quaked from successive afflictions visited upon humanity. The forces of dust and the pillars of verdure have trembled as the fires of tyranny and aggression have blazed forth, reaching unto the heavens.   AB00230



in self-sacrifice there is growth and development. Just as we are often ready to sacrifice our possessions, our wealth, and our lives for the sake of truth, we must likewise be willing to sacrifice our opinions and ideas, if we know that such a thing will bring about unity and accord  ABU2808

O my Lord, Make them Thy refulgent dawns which shine and gleam upon the Temple of Unity, so that they may be resuscitated from the tombs of negligence, unfurl the standard of virtue and chant the verses of self-abnegation and renunciation while hastening toward the altar of sacrifice.  AB11110

O thou who art renowned throughout all the world for thy madness (in the love of God)! Praise be to God that in the path of the love of God thou didst allow thy house to be burned, sacrificing it that thou mightest become famous throughout the world and renowned throughout all regions  AB08538

You who are a purchaser of the divine Joseph's beauty and are possessed and enraptured by the true Beloved - how then must you be pure in sacrifice, ready to give your life, fearless, sacrificial, bewildered, rootless, notorious, possessed, captive and lowly in the path of the Beloved?   AB06045


This loss and damage that has befallen you was in the path of God, not due to ignorance, deficiency or carelessness. Therefore you must be grateful and content that the storms and tempests of events have not scattered this sand to the wind; rather, in truth, it has gone in the path of God.   AB04666

Every soul shall taste of the cup of death, and if this occurs for the sake of God and his spirit and body are sacrificed in the path of the Beloved, surely this is most fitting, and every person of insight bears witness that this station is the most exalted of stations in the sight of God.   BH03328

They must ever be ready to sacrifice their properties, their rest and their lives so that in the world of humanity divine illumination be spread, the Banner of Universal Peace be upraised, and the Tabernacle of the Oneness of the world of humanity be pitched in the very center of this globe.  ABU2277


Because calamities encountered in God's pathway are, to Abdu'l-Baha, but favour and grace, and in one of His Tablets the all-glorious Beauty hath declared: 'I never passed a tree but Mine heart addressed it saying: "O would that thou wert cut down in My name, and My body crucified upon thee!"'   AB03828

O maid-servant of God! The mystery of sacrifice is that man should sacrifice all his conditions for the divine station of God. The station of God is mercy, kindness, forgiveness, sacrifice, favor, grace and giving life to the spirits and lighting the fire of His love in the hearts and arteries.  AB02144

The mystery of "Ransom" (or Sacrifice) is a most great subject and is inexhaustible. Briefly it is as follows: The moth is a sacrifice to the candle. The spring is a sacrifice to the thirsty one. The sincere lover is a sacrifice to the loved one and the longing one is a sacrifice to the beloved.  AB01550

Verily, that which is beloved in the sight of God hath been and still is piety, and likewise the station of sacrifice - if one should prefer another among the people of faith to oneself, that is, bestow upon him that which is specially his own. This deed is well-pleasing and acceptable before God.  BH04609


Would that I had been slain by the swords of the wicked ones... O my Lord! Let me taste the heat of the sword in Thy path, then increase the misery of them who have disbelieved. Then sharpen the blade of their knives that they may cut me piece by piece in Thy path. This is my desire, O my Beloved!   BH01437

These are servants who remained faithful to Thy Covenant and Testament, who hastened to the station of sacrifice in hope of what lieth with Thee, and in whom Thy most exalted Word had such effect that their hearts were melted thereby, their eyes shed tears, and their necks bowed before Thy grandeur.   BH00996


Now, what would the ordinary intellect say? Preserve your life! Preserve your property! But he who is set on fire with God's love will forego all possessions. On such occasions his actions appear insane; but he is in a sacrificial state. Honor, glory, everything pertaining to himself, is sacrificed.   ABU0341


If one spends life in the divine path, then every moment bears fruit. Now consider those souls who are annihilated in the Cause of God and effaced at His Sacred Threshold, who have no purpose or desire save servitude to the Blessed Beauty--how spiritual, radiant, enkindled, detached and mindful they are!  ABU0347

You must love your friend better than yourself; yes, be willing to sacrifice yourself. The Cause of Baha'u'llah has not yet appeared in this country. I desire that you be ready to sacrifice everything for each other, even life itself; then I will know that the Cause of Baha'u'llah has been established.   ABU1888


Your migration and arrival with your mother, upon her be the Most Glorious Beauty of God, and her ascension to the Supreme Companion, and likewise your second migration and the manifestations of love and affection and hardships endured in His path, exalted be He - all have been and are before Our sight.   BH04835

Thou shouldst pray fervently and beseech confirmations from the Sacred Threshold that thou mayst succeed in meeting the prerequisites of divine love. That spirit which is not offered up in the path of the Best Beloved is not spirit, but water and clay; it is not gain, but loss; it is not life, but death.   AB06771

This physical and spiritual existence of 'Abdu'l-Baha was brought into being only to be effaced and annihilated in the path of Baha'u'llah. Otherwise what fruit is there from existence? Surely non-existence would be better than such an existence. This is true love, this is annihilation in the path of God.  AB00832


I hope that, God willing, with absolute evanescence and humility, with utmost fervor and enthusiasm, with meekness and submissiveness, we will all serve the sacred Threshold and with such spiritual efficacy will remain fast and firm in His Cause until our very last breath. This is our ultimate aspiration.   ABU0592

Say: We have indeed sacrificed Our soul in the path of the Beloved... Would that I might sacrifice myself in His path at every moment and every instant... Blessed is the hour wherein the Youth sacrifices himself in the path of God... I verily desire to sacrifice Myself in His path in place of all the worlds   BH02588




"To intimidate them seemed to be the only way I could avert the danger with which I was threatened. I turned back and rushed towards them with such determination that they fled away in distress and vanished. I could hear their distant cry, 'The little Babi is fast pursuing us! He will surely overtake and slay us all!'"   ABU1472

This desire of thine is an indication of firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant, and is worthy of commendation and praise. But 'Abdu'l-Baha too entertaineth a similar hope, which is that he should sacrifice himself for the loved ones, and, in devotion to the friends, hasten to lay down his life on the altar of love.   AB01001

Christ sacrificed Himself so that mankind might be freed from the imperfections of the material nature and endowed with the virtues of the spiritual nature. This spiritual nature, which has come to exist through the grace of the divine Reality, is the sum of all perfections and proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit.   AB00096

However, wandering homeless and instability and destitution and weakness and tribulations and disgrace and the constraints of imprisonment and climbing the gallows and sacrificing one's life and the altar of divine love - this is an eternal bounty and blessing and everlasting glory and spiritual joy and the heart's desire.   AB05672

Divine success and heavenly confirmation led him to the place of sacrifice and altar of love...And since that noble one was intoxicated and stupefied from the overflowing cup of the sealed wine, he found the wounds of every merciless one to be a balm for the soul, and sought the poison of sword and blade as honey and cure.   AB11824

O Lord! I have sacrificed in Thy path what Thou didst give me through Thy bounty, and have spent in Thy love what Thou didst grant me through Thy grace. I beseech Thee, O Master of the kingdoms of names and Sovereign of the kingdom of eternity, to confirm me in sacrificing my spirit in the path of Thy good-pleasure and love   BH02411

O servant of God! Give thanks that thou art confirmed in sacrificing thyself in the path of the Divine Beauty, and in thy love for that Kind Beloved thou art wandering homeless and forlorn. The splendor of this bounty and gift is now hidden and concealed, but its brilliant star shall shine forth throughout ages and centuries.  AB09840

But Ios would not speak. The King's heart was breaking and he exclaimed, "Thy silence condemns thee. If thou dost not speak and justify thyself I shall banish thee forever from my face." Ios lifted his eyes and looked long on the King's face, then meekly bowed his head and went out from his presence and went alone into exile.   ABU0167

For through calamity the heart of Abdul-Baha is attracted; through (suffering) oppression the breast of Abdul-Baha is dilated; through enduring afflictions the faithfulness of Abdul-Baha is proven; through imprisonment the soul of Abdul-Baha is cheered; at every moment he wishes to quaff the cup of sacrifice in the path of God.  AB00672

Once a Baha'i was mistaken for his friend and arrested. He said nothing, hoping to bear the punishment for his friend. But the friend, when he heard of it, immediately gave himself up and released the wrongfully accused one. Another Baha'i was condemned to die and his friends went and begged that one of them be put to death instead.  ABU1929

Then I told him take your rifle in your hand, keeping it in a position as though you are going to aim at them. Don't heed them at all. Don't look at them. Walk straight. Laugh and speak with me. The three men ahead of us cried out "down with your rifle" Mirza Javad did not give any attention to them. They were amazed at our audacity!   ABU1050

She left her homeland, distanced herself from family and friends, bore every hardship and suffering, and found sweet the bitterness of separation - all out of love for teaching children and passion for educating girls in the farthest lands...until her bones weakened, her constitution failed, her body wasted away, and her flesh melted.  AB00927


that they might offer up their souls in Thy path and expend their spirits in Thy love, might perfume distant lands with the sweet fragrances of Thy holiness, illuminate far-off regions with brilliant rays of Thy wisdom, and water the thirsting earth of the realities of existence with abundant outpourings from the clouds of Thy bounty and mercy.  AB03558

And say unto him: Dost thou love thy head more than God? Say: Glory be to God! I love it only that it may be raised upon the spear in Thy love, if this be acceptable unto Thee. Or is thy breast dearer unto thee than God? Say: Glory be to God! I have preserved it only for the arrows of the enemies in Thy path, and this lieth manifest before Thee.  BH00777

"And he departed out of his fatherland with his two sons, setting his face towards Thee, trusting wholly in Thee... until, while on his way, he surrendered his soul and drank deep of the chalice of sacrifice that brimmeth over with the pleasing choice Wine and he yielded up his breath to Thee while being inflamed with the fire of his longing for Thee"  AB01039

Some desired to purchase Him with mere words, while others sought to win His love through self-sacrifice. Those who wished to purchase Him with words showed no steadfastness and soon afterwards believed themselves deceived. But those who came forward with the spirit of self-sacrifice found the Beautiful Joseph in the embrace of supplication and prayer.   AB09096

This is my supreme cross and this is my couch in the Kingdom and this is my crown from the outpouring of the Realm of Might... Rather, I beseech You in the darkness of nights and at dawn and daybreak to ordain for me in Your path to fall into the depths of seas, or descend into the bellies of deserts, or be crucified upon tree trunks throughout the lands   AB00976


O thou steadfast servant at the Divine Threshold! Thy noble namesake, His Holiness Isaac, laid down his head in submission at the altar of sacrifice and showed his desire to give up his life. I beseech the favors of the All-Subtle, the All-Informed Lord that thou too mayest follow the example of thy noble namesake, that thou mayest attain to the great sacrifice.  AB12750

As to my drinking the cup of sacrifice: By the Lord of heaven, this is my utmost hope, the joy of my heart, the consolation of my soul and my final desire. Thou shouldst pray God that He may prepare this hope for me and ordain for me this mighty gift and that He may give me to quaff this cup which is overflowing with the wine of faithfulness in the path of Baha'.   AB00671

Such souls as these have abandoned hearth and home and have detached themselves from all that runneth contrary to the will of the Beloved... They all rode the steed of sacrifice and left the narrow confines of this world with swiftness and great haste to attain the Abha Kingdom... I swear by God that thou wouldst rush forth with passionate zeal into the field of abnegation  AB00392


Therefore we, who are enamored of the face of the Beloved and distracted by those perfumed tresses, how must we sacrifice our lives and through such sacrifice attain to joy? For we strive in the path of the One True God, and attain life everlasting and seek eternal glory. We have raised a banner that shall not be reversed, and we cherish a hope that none shall be disappointed.  AB01638

Thou hadst written that we strive to make the friends in Spokane self-sacrificing. We hope that each and every one of the friends may become self-sacrificing and make others self-sacrificing as well. Until one becomes self-sacrificing in the path of God, no fruit will be gathered from life. Such a life would be like that of a mineral, like a fruitless tree. A tree must bear fruit.  AB01382


that each with utmost eagerness and good-pleasure turned towards the dawning-place of sacrifice...Were this servant to attempt to mention the influences of those spirits upon the inner and outer world, he would need to spend long periods expounding this station. By the life of God! If an eye were to be opened and perceive this station, that one would surely sacrifice the entire world   BH01842

That which is most precious is most worthy of being sacrificed. A precious possession, not a worthless thing, is fit to be offered up. The most precious of all things is a piece of one's liver, especially a son in the sight of his father and mother. Give thanks unto God that thou didst sacrifice the most precious of things in the path of God and didst offer up the light of thine eyes.  AB08137

Each day you were in grave danger under the swords of the oppressors. You sacrificed your soul at every moment and spoke with mighty proof, establishing conclusive evidence and overwhelming argument against the atheists to vindicate truth and vanquish falsehood, immersed in the ocean of guidance. You spent your days drinking the bitter cup in the path of the Luminary of the horizons.   AB02323




Finally, he was exiled to Hadba', where he could no longer bear the separation from his Lord, so he set off on foot, in the utmost poverty, and eagerly while chanting prayers he walked from Hadba' to 'Akka. His [body] could, however, not bear the hardships of the journey; he travelled across the deserts with no food or provisions, and surrendered his soul with the utmost fervour and longing.   AB00510


You offered up your possessions, your kindred and your souls in the path of the Glory of God for the love of His Most Exalted Beauty. May my spirit be a sacrifice for you! May my being be a sacrifice for you! May my reality be a sacrifice for you! May my spirit be a sacrifice for you! May my being be a sacrifice for you! May my self be a sacrifice for you! May my essence be a sacrifice for you!   AB01514

When man dedicates his life to a cause, he must dedicate entirely, then he is really dedicated. It is not through word, but through deed. One must dedicate his life completely, fully, in reality, just as the dead branch sacrifices its life to the fire, and just as the oil sacrifices its life to give light. This is the great station--the station of sacrifice. There is no greater station than this.   ABU1014




Yet this is most evident, that the beauty of the spirit and its worth lie in its being spent in the path of the Friend. Blessed is the soul that spendeth and the Friend accepteth. Since the eye of the heart remaineth veiled by the veils of self and desire, it hath therefore been deprived of perceiving this station. Were a soul to gaze with the most pure vision, it would gladly sacrifice a hundred thousand lives.   BH00997



"See, how for the sake of a trifling gain, people subject themselves to terrible difficulties and suffering and trial, though it gives them no result or benefit whatever. This is the consequence of exerting one's self to gain the things of this world. But such is not the case in the Cause of God: for whoever takes a single step or endures the least hardship for the sake of God, it will never be lost or prove fruitless."   ABU0746


We must rescue the world of humanity from all dangers that threaten it and sacrifice our own comfort for our Divine Beloved...This transitory existence and this temporary, illusory comfort must be devoted to the service of the Cause and be made a sacrifice unto its altar. Anything else is utter loss. This dead shrub must be sacrificed for that luscious Lote-Tree and this insignificant drop must be offered for the waves of His Ocean.  ABU2427

O Lord! He risked his life and soul when the fires of pestilence blazed forth and a searing, fetid wind blew upon the dwelling-place of Thy Most Luminous, Most Exalted Beauty. O Lord! He forsook comfort and ease, tranquility and repose, and found no rest morning or night. He plunged into the depths of hardship and arose to serve humanity, to protect the loved ones and associates, nay rather to safeguard all creatures in that furthermost shore.  AB00058


I desire to seal the Tablet of my faithfulness with the sacrifice of my life. Ah me! my friends! What is life but to be immolated on the Altar of His Love! What is life but to be thrown in the dust of the feet of the beloved ones, what is this worthless will but to be surrendered into the hands of the Almighty Father. What is the soul but to be offered in the arena of Truth, what is the spirit but to be given up for the progress of divine Civilization and universal Peace   ABU0765

Never forget this; look at one another with the eyes of perfection; look at Me, follow Me, be as I am; take no thought for yourselves or your lives, whether ye eat or whether we sleep, whether we are comfortable, whether we are well or ill, whether ye are with friends or foes, whether ye receive praise or blame; for all of these things we must care not at all. Behold a candle and how it gives its light. It weeps its life away drop by drop in order to give forth its flame of light.   ABU1702

To drink the cup of woe from every chalice, To taste the blood of grief from every heart, To sever hope from touch of any comfort, To cut desire from reach of any need, To shed one's blood in passion's path is duty, To burn the heart in love was my first pact, Sleepless nights from every stinging bite, Daily abuse is part of my tradition, Deadly poison is my drink divine, Fate's oppression is my mercy true. Abandon love's claim or accept what comes - Thus runs the law within my holy way.  BHU0001


Through them the heavenly table was sent down, the Dove cooed, all things spoke forth, and that which was hidden in the Kingdom of Names was made manifest. Exalted, exalted be their station! Exalted, exalted be their glory, their submission, their humility, and their self-effacement! These are servants through whom the horizon of utterance was illumined and the sun of proof shone forth. The rapture of the Manifestation seized them in such wise that they sacrificed their souls and all they possessed in the path of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH01143


When Mohamad was living one day his son-in-law Ali, his wife and his two sons kept fast... Ali gave them all the four loaves of bread. All the four continued to fast next day without eating anything meanwhile. Four other loaves were prepared and they were again given away to a number of orphans who called right in time. The sun rose on the third day and they continued to fast without eating anything. They have now prepared for the third time four loaves of bread and just before eating, a few strangers passed by the house and the loaves were given unto them.   ABU1566

Furthermore, regarding what thou didst mention about sacrificing thy life in the path of the Beloved, this was presented before the Throne. He said: If thou keepest thy life alive through His praise, this would be closer to righteousness in the sight of God today and will continue to be so, for perchance through thy mention others may be reminded of the wondrous ways of remembering Him. Therefore, preserve thy life with the utmost tenderness that it may ever be occupied with His remembrance, and if the time for sacrificing life should come, it will assuredly be offered up.  BH11706

This is the Surih of Sacrifice which hath been sent down from the heaven of command unto him whom We have named the Sacrificed One in the Kingdom of Names... O Dhabih! Thou hast been sacrificed at every instant during twenty years, and none knoweth this save thy Lord, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved. Know thou that when the Dhabih of old desired to reach the station of sacrifice, redemption came unto him from the heaven of divine decree. But this Dhabih accepted no redemption and was sacrificed by the sword of hatred wielded by these transgressors who comprehend not what they do.   BH00434

A third disciple said, "To perform worthy deeds in the Kingdom we must be further self-sacrificing. From now on we should forego ease and bodily comfort, accept every difficulty, forget self and teach the Cause of God." Finally a fourth disciple said, "There is still another aspect to our faith and unity. For Jesus' sake we shall be beaten, imprisoned and exiled. They may kill us. Let us receive this lesson now. Let us realize and resolve that though we are beaten, banished, cursed, spat upon and led forth to be killed, we shall accept all this joyfully, loving those who hate and wound us."  ABU0540


Now, O faithful friends and companions of that Luminous Countenance, is it befitting that we should rest for even a moment, or exercise patience, or seek comfort and ease, falling into lassitude and following our own imaginings, attaching our hearts to strangers and kin? No, by God! We must not rest day or night, nor soil our pure hearts with the defilement of this world. Let us prepare the feast of sacrifice and establish the festival of love, and with harp and drum and reed sing the melodies of the Abha Kingdom, and dancing, rejoicing and laughing, hasten to the altar of sacrifice and offer up our souls, bodies, heads and limbs.   AB00322


Thus all that is related to the loved ones of God--their former glory, their present services, the grievous sufferings they have borne--all will, even as carving on slabs of emerald, be recorded on the scrolls of the Abha Kingdom, and therefrom will they shed their radiance upon all the worlds of God. Then when that light sheddeth its rays upon the tongues of the world of existence, it giveth rise to expressions of praise and glorification; when directed towards human hearts, it evoketh the memory of noble traits, deeds, and virtues; when reflected upon the pages of the world, it becometh the object of the verse and give me a good name among posterity; it illumineth the surface of the earth; it is made manifest in the form of consecrated spots and sacred Shrines.  AB00627

In brief, the Incomparable One did not create these servants of His Threshold for pleasure and delight, comfort and luxury, ease and rest. The cup of wine and the bleeding heart - each to one was given; Such is the dispensation in the circle of destiny's decree. To one was given companionship with flowers, tulips, goblet and wine; to another, fellowship with sighs and lamentations. To one was granted an overflowing cup, to another a tear-filled eye. To Layla was given the heart-consuming glance, to Majnun the soul-burning sigh. Thus it became clear that the portion of the lovers of the Beloved's face is the arrow of cruelty, not the pearl of bounty; the cup of tribulation, not the place of serenity; to burn, not to find rest; to face fire, not comfort; to sacrifice life, not to raise banners; to face oppression, not happiness.  AB00026


"Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living God may then shine forth."  AB01189

This evening I wish to speak to you concerning the mystery of sacrifice. There are two kinds of sacrifice: the physical and the spiritual.  ABU0139

Moreover, the Concourse on high and the dwellers in the Abha Kingdom are now expounding the mystery of sacrifice, the main purport of all heavenly Scriptures   AB03172

The exaltation of man lies in self-sacrifice, and the ascent of the human being lies in offering and sacrifice. Whoever is closer at this feast is given a fuller cup of trials.  AB07183

In the mighty Qur'an and perspicuous Book it is revealed: "And We ransomed him with a mighty sacrifice." In this blessed verse, the mystery of sacrifice is expounded and the light of guidance is manifest, for sacrifice and guidance are twins, and offering and faith are one body in two garments. Until the reality of sacrifice is realized and manifested in the essence of being, the lights of guidance will not shine forth from the supreme horizon and the dawning-place of "or nearer." That is, until the perishable aspects of contingent existence are consumed by the kindled fire of the Lord, the lights of the Abha Kingdom will not illumine the niche of the heart and the glass of the spirit.  "Kindle thou the fire of love and burn away all existence, Then take a step and enter the path of the lovers."  To sacrifice the body is easy, but to sacrifice the qualities emanating from the realm of existence, which are essential requirements of contingency, is difficult.  AB04777

The self-sacrifice of Jesus Christ caused those who believed in Him to have eternal life. The mystery of self-sacrifice has been manifested in all the prophets, because this is the foundation- the basis of divinity. The self-sacrifice and martyrdom of all the prophets caused the sins of the people to be forgiven. Self-sacrifice effaces discord, and causes man to attain virtues, changes darkness into light, hides the darkness of crime, and brings forth the light of good deeds. The mystery of it is explained in four ways. Every one of the Manifestations of God is a perfect and accomplished being. They were all endowed with the divine characteristics, and have attained all the bounties and good deeds. For instance, the time between Moses and Christ was called the Day of Moses, and all the people who came in this time were called the branches of the Lote-tree of Moses, as they came in his time and under his command or revelation. The Manifestations of God are likened unto the seeds. They contain all the perfections of the tree, but you can not see them until the tree grows up. The Blessed Lote-tree grew up from a single seed, yet all of the perfections and virtues which existed in the seed were not manifest until the seed sacrificed itself (its identity), that the tree might become apparent.  The branches, leaves, flowers, fruit of the tree are only matter, but the perfection hidden in the seed has given to them color, fragrance and delicious taste. When the tree attains its maturity and perfection you will also find the original seed appearing upon it, and the new seed signifies the second manifestation of the first, and of the second contains all of the perfections of the first. Thus the return of the first seed is apparent, but when the second seed grows into a tree the same leaves, branches, fruits do not appear, but the seed has sacrificed all of itself the same as the first, that the second tree may appear. The tree is matter, but the perfection hidden in the seed causes it to attain the vegetable kingdom. Thus the disciples of Jesus Christ were but matter until they partook of the perfection of the seed of the Holy Spirit in the Body of Christ. Thus they attained spiritual growth. The Blessed Perfection said (Praise be to His Holy Name!), "If any one says 'I am a new Manifestation' he must first realize that it means death, and also be willing to die" Jesus knew that He must be willing to give up His life, for all the Jews were against Him. He realized in the beginning that He must yield everything before He could put forth His claim, and at last He must give His life before the people could know His truth.  Also, for the sake of self-sacrifice, the Bab said, "O, my great Master, I give My life, my soul, and everything I have, in Your path, and I desire nothing of men but their curses, because You are the sufficient for me, and God is a witness to this utterance." ABU0808

This was naught but the manifestation of one of the divine mysteries and the emergence of a symbol from among the symbols of the All-Merciful Beauty, that the mystery of sacrifice might appear in the realm of being  AB04778

This oppression is the essential feature of every Revelation. Unless it cometh to pass, the Sun of Truth will not be made manifest. For the break of the morn of divine guidance must needs follow the darkness of the night of error.  BH00002

Christ sacrificed Himself, as the seed, becoming as nothing. He produced millions of beautiful trees with their leaves, blossoms, and fruit. The leaves, blossoms, and fruit are manifestations of the perfections that were in the seed, so the disciples became the manifestations of the perfections that were in Christ.  ABU0848

O God, my God! Would that a thousand Ishmaels were given Me, this Abraham of Thine, that I might have offered them, each and all, as a loving sacrifice unto Thee. O my Beloved, my heart's Desire! The sacrifice of this Ahmad whom Thy servant Ali-Muhammad hath offered up on the altar of Thy love can never suffice to quench the flame of longing in His heart.  BBU0007

Sacrifice! How sweet is the word in my taste! There is no greater bounty than this for me! What greater glory can I conceive than to see this neck chained for His sake, these feet fettered for His love, this body mutilated or thrown into the depths of the sea for His Cause! If in reality we are His sincere lovers - if in reality I am His sincere Servant, then I must sacrifice my life, my all at His Blessed Threshold.  ABU1148

The Horizon receives Divine Protection through the outpouring of that Bounty and the bounties which the Horizon receives from the Unseen Light it in turn gives to mankind and to creation. The station by which the Horizon gives those Bounties which He has taken from the Sun of Truth to mankind, the station of giving those Bounties to mankind is called the Station of sacrifice. I will give you an example by which to distinguish between the Giver of Bounties and mankind. Take the grain which you put in the earth; when the seed wants to be changed into a tree of course it sacrifices all of itself to the tree in order that it may be produced. Jesus Christ said "I have given my life in order that you may live." When Jesus Christ came into the world He gave all His Bounties to mankind in order that they might see their own bounties therein; and this was the way in which He sacrificed His life to the world.... As long as one has not taken a portion of the Mystery of Sacrifice it is impossible for him to attain the Kingdom of God. So long as you do not have the cup free from every sort of liquor, it is impossible that you put good and pure water therein. ABU0313

For example, consider a growing tree--the sun shines upon it, the rain falls and the breezes blow upon it. Then, by the grace and power of God the earth gives its strength to the tree and it lives and grows. The tree then gives this power, which it receives from the earth to the branches twigs and leaves, which flourish and in time it gives its power to make blossoms and fruit to appear upon them. So our Lord Christ gives His perfections and graces which He receives from God to the people, to make them grow to be strong and live and He keeps nothing back for Himself.   ABU1460

