
It is related that Paul and Peter entered a city whose inhabitants were Sabeans. When they entered the temple and, with perfect wisdom, began counseling those present and guiding them, gradually some souls were attracted. Immediately the Jews, sensing the influence of their words, hastened to that city and cast doubts, causing souls to waver and turn away from the slight attraction they had shown to the Spirit of God. Finally, they incited that great multitude to harm these two noble ones, and they stretched forth such oppressive hands that the Jews were pleased. They beat those two wanderers in the path of God's love to such a degree that no strength remained, and they fell to the ground. Then the obstinate people, at the instigation of the Jews, dragged those two praiseworthy lights outside the city. That night, they drank the sweet cup of tribulation in utmost torment, and from the severity of bone pain could not move. In the morning, Paul arose and said, "O Peter, arise and hasten! There is a city nearby where on such a day each year there is a general market, and great multitudes gather from every direction. We must hasten to that city and begin counseling, opening our tongues in supreme guidance. Perhaps some souls will rend asunder the veil of remoteness and become illumined by the light of guidance, open their eyes and adorn their hearts with divine knowledge." Peter said, "O Paul, fear God! My bones are nearly shattered from severe pain, and weakness of body and exhaustion are such that movement is impossible. How can we hasten to that place?" Paul replied, "O Peter, if these blows, piercing wounds and killing were not in God's path, what sweetness would there be to taste, what comfort to heart and soul? The pleasure and sweetness lie in this: that we cry out and they revile; we speak and they strike. Arise, O Peter! Let not the opportunity slip away. Consider the time precious. While life and strength remain, let us sacrifice ourselves and endure tribulations and trials in God's path." AB00302

Consider what was the quickening power of the Christ when He was on earth. Look at His disciples! They were poor and uncultured men. Out of the rough fisherman He made the great Peter, and out of the poor village girl of Magdala He made one who is a power in all the world today.  ABU2200

"Paul and Peter, the Apostles, once went into one of the cities of the Greeks and engage in teaching the Truth. In that city, there was a temple which bore the inscription, 'To the Name of the Unknown God.' Paul arose and, addressing himself to the multitude, said: 'We bring you tidings from the same "Unknown God,"' thus preaching to them the message of Christ. A great number of the Greeks became interested in the Cause. This aroused jealousy in the Jews who began to make trouble. The multitude, aroused by these seditions, attached the Apostles and beat them until they fell unconscious. Then their bodies were dragged along the road and thrown outside the city. Paul and Peter continued in a death-like unconsciousness all night. Early in the morning, Paul, who was brought to himself, said to Peter: 'There is a fair today in a place in this neighborhood, at which many people will be present. Let us move along to preach the Gospel in that place.' Peter called attention to their wounded and bruised bodies; and although at first too weak to move, they finally arose and betook themselves to the fair and preached. Briefly, these persecutions caused a further spread of the Cause of Christ, in that they caused them to be removed into a new place and preach to a new multitude." ABU2367

One evening 'Abdu'l-Baha said that "both Peter and Paul suffered martyrdom with all steadfastness by the order of Nero." He said, "This is a clear and indisputable fact." ABU3495

This parable [of the prodigal son] was revealed on behalf of Peter and Paul, because at first Paul was one of the adversaries of the Revelation of GOD, and thus was kept in evident darkness and had no Light, for he was gaining in knowledge from the Pharisees, and this is that which was mentioned as the "food for swine." At this point Paul realized he was excluded from Mercy and he returned to the Light of Jesus Christ. When he did this the fragrance of Jesus Christ enveloped him.   ABU1559

Jesus Christ said only a few words to Peter, telling him that upon that rock he would build his church. He left no written instruction or will  AB10791

It is even as in the time of the Messiah, when the Pharisees and the pious were left without a portion, while Peter, John and Andrew, given neither to pious worship nor ascetic practice, won the day. Wherefore, thank ye God for setting upon your heads the crown of glory everlasting, for granting unto you this immeasurable grace.  AB04648

At that time, Peter the Apostle, Paul the Apostle, and several other apostles who were outwardly silk-weavers, fishermen and craftsmen, arose to exalt the Word of God.  AB02110

Two of the apostles of the Spirit (Christ) went to the city of Antioch to teach the Cause of God... Simon Peter expressed a desire to meet them. They were summoned, and with wisdom he feigned ignorance... This is why in the blessed verse He says "We strengthened them with a third."   AB00219

Just think that Peter and other apostles of Christ belonged to the common people and were not educated but as they expended whatever capacity they had in the path of Christ, they shone forth from the horizon of eternity. The results of the dedication of their lives to the Cause of Christ are yet continued.   ABU1128

Peter was devoid of all schooling and so untrained that he could not remember the days of the week.  ABU1829

Peter believed in Him, but His own brothers did not believe in Him.  ABU3681

It was trial (or temptation) which caused Peter - the great - to deny thrice, His Holiness Christ.  AB00958

The great Rabbi Caiaphas becomes the abased one, whereas an humble fisherman such as Peter is so greatly elevated.  ABU0585

Behold Peter, how he responded to his Master before being questioned, and followed the Spirit with clear certitude.   BH06291

When Christ passed away, He had eleven disciples. The greatest among them was Peter, and he denied Christ three times  ABU1569

The greatest of these disciples was Peter, and the weakness of even his belief was such that he denied the Master three times.   ABU1385

Peter the disciple, who, through the burning of the fire of test and persecution, was in great fear and denied Christ three times   AB02145

Judas Iscariot and Peter were both sons of the kingdom, but Peter was the real son. Judas was the material son, consequently he was deprived.  ABU1182

"the great Peter, who was the head of the Apostles, fell into tests thrice; but, verily, God made him so firm that he sacrificed his life in love for Christ."   AB01293

Although Saint Paul was learned, when he received news of Christ he completely forgot philosophy and became filled with Christ, as he mentions in his epistles.   AB02740


If Paul had not stood firm, he would have accomplished nothing. See the result of his firmness! I hope you may be more steadfast than Paul and strive to accomplish greater things.   ABU0671

And how many were very bad in the beginning but very good in the end, like Paul the Apostle who was an enemy of Christ in the beginning but became Christ's greatest servant in the end.  ABU0285

Peter, who was the Rock (of the Christian dispensation), was firm and solid; but, in the moment of Christ's deliverance, that Rock quaked a little, until the crowing of the cock was raised.   AB06342

the sincerity of Peter the Apostle have been distinguished from the treachery of Judas Iscariot? The virtues of the former and vices of the latter were only revealed through tests and trials  AB06438

One of these scorners was Paul the Apostle, who at first brought about so much trouble, but when he was awakened and became attentive, he offered such noteworthy services to the Cause of Christ!  AB01368

Christ (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) spoke one word regarding Peter - He did not write it in His own hand - and that word is this: "Thou art a rock and upon this rock I will build my church."   AB01409


There were many Jewish scholars, but they were earthbound, while Saint Paul was heavenly - this is why he could fly. In his time no one recognized him; rather he spent his days in utmost contempt and trials. Later it became clear that he was not an earthly bird but a heavenly bird, not a natural philosopher but a divine philosopher. And my hope is likewise that in future both East and West will become aware that you were a divine philosopher and a herald of the Kingdom of God. Although Saint Paul was learned, when he received news of Christ he completely forgot philosophy and became filled with Christ, as he mentions in his epistles.  AB02740

Through the favors of the Lord of Hosts, the Promised One, my hope is that this journey of thine may become like the journey of Paul and like the journey of Peter when he went to Antioch - see what mighty results it had!  AB06361

Paul in the beginning worked against the Spirit of God - Christ, but when he became confirmed he was the first servant of Christ. He became a bright lamp amongst mankind and a luminous star shining from the horizon of eternity.  AB11099

in the Gospel His Holiness Christ, praising Peter, said "that thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my church." Now, this was an obscure utterance, and in regard to his successorship there was a difference.  ABU0703

Even the graves of Mary and the apostles are unknown. The Catholics say Paul and Peter's graves are in Rome, while the Orthodox say they are in Antioch. It was considered so unimportant that one of the philosophers of that time who wrote a book against Christ saying this person Christ never existed and there was no such person - Peter and Paul invented him.  ABU0550

There were many doctors amongst the Jews, but they were all earthly, but St. Paul became heavenly because he could fly upwards. In his own time no one duly recognized him; nay, rather, he spent his days amidst difficulties and contempt.   AB06532

As long as Peter was disturbed in the Cause of Christ, he was subject to tests. When he heard the cock crow, he became steadfast, arose to serve Christ, and was so successful and confirmed that you know the result. Now this letter of mine is the cock's crow.  AB08731

When Saint Paul was asked about certain philosophical questions, he answered that before he had news of Christ, he knew everything, but when he received news of Christ, he became unaware of everything. For Christ so infused him that no room remained for anything else.  AB03367

This method will receive powerful confirmation, just as Peter the Apostle, servant of Christ (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), carried out in Antioch. At first he spoke according to the disposition and capacity of the people. When hearts became attracted, he delivered the Word.   AB01127

That is, God willing, like Paul the Apostle who, after receiving severe beatings, being struck on the head, slapped on the face and cheek, falling unconscious in the wilderness from unbearable blows, arose and hastened to the nearby city and proclaimed the Cause of God with most eloquent speech and wondrous explanation.  AB02597

During the days of Christ there were many Rabbis and high-priests but none of them was confirmed except Paul. All of them were deprived but he became the confirmed King of the ministers. I hope that thou mayst become like Paul, receive a goodly portion from the heavenly Bestowals and arise in the service of thy fellowmen.   ABU2053

As for tests, they are inevitable. Hast thou not heard and read how in the days of Christ and after Christ divine tests appeared and the winds of trials grew severe, until even the illustrious Peter could not escape the talons of tests and was shaken, then awakened and wept as one bereft, his lamentation ascending to the Concourse on High?  AB00305

"Consider the greatness of the Cause, and the severity of the tests, that Peter, whom Christ addressed: 'Thou art Peter, an upon this rock will I build My Church' - denied Jesus thrice. This was not save on account of the severity of the tests. Now the nations of the world bless themselves in his (Peter's) name, and hope - kissing the dust beneath his feet, because of his relation to Jesus."  AB01623

Christ was asking of His Disciples whom he was, and when Peter answered: "Thou art Christ, the son of the Living GOD". Christ wished to confirm this statement and also show that his whole religion was founded on this truth; that is why he called Peter by his name which means "Rock"; and He said: "I shall build my church on your belief, which is the true belief and the foundation of God's church."  ABU1873

Caiaphas and Annas were the colossal pillars of the Mosaic Dispensation in the day of His Highness the Spirit; but as they did not acknowledge the Word of God, they fell from the apex of glory to the bottom of the pit of the greatest abasement. But Peter was a catcher of fish; as he turned his face toward the Word of God, the fame of his imperishable, deathless and immortal glory encircled East and West; and he found in the sovereignty of the Kingdom, eternal and everlasting majesty.   AB00473

When Peter realized this greatness of power which had been granted Paul, he had but little spiritual understanding, and he said, "I was the servant before Paul, and I was promulgating the Truth, and how is it that Paul has become so advanced?" Then the Spiritual message of Jesus Christ was given to him: "You are always with Me, and My Bounty and Abundant Grace are with you but Paul, your spiritual brother, was dead and is alive; was lost and has found guidance. All My revelations are for you, for you are Peter, and upon this rock will I build My church."   ABU1559

O thou who hast turned thy face toward the Kingdom of God! I supplicate God that thou mayest become like unto Peter, the "Rock"--unshaken, immovable and strong  AB09477


Reflect upon the Son of Mary. Annas, who was the most learned scholar of that age, issued the death warrant, and in the presence of that vile one a blow was struck upon that holy countenance. But the fisherman who was occupied with catching fish - when the Spirit [Jesus] passed by him and said "Come, I will make you a fisher of men" - instantly turned to Him, forsook the sea and fish and all therein. Having never seen a word of knowledge, he ascended to the kingdom of knowledge. Finally he reached such a station that his sweet fragrances perfumed the world. That is from God's grace - He giveth it to whom He willeth. This same Peter, despite his exalted station, at the end of his days showed that which was unworthy, but in an instant the hand of grace seized him again and he was sustained by the Kawthar of steadfastness. Blessed is he. BH00548

Christ, referring to Peter, said: "Thou art a Rock and upon this Rock I shall build My Church." This statement is not recorded by the pen of Christ, nor doth it clearly call for turning to Peter, nor hath it been revealed by Christ in His Book. It is but a tradition handed down by the apostles. This tradition, however, caused everyone to obey, and eliminated misunderstandings among the apostles and the Christians.  AB00945

Christ Jesus summoned all mankind to amity and peace. Unto Peter He said: 'Put up thy sword into the sheath.' Such was the bidding and counsel of the Lord Christ; and yet today the Christians one and all have drawn their swords from out the scabbard. How wide is the discrepancy between such acts and the clear Gospel text!  AB00197

One's conduct must be like the conduct of Paul, and one's faith similar to that of Peter. This musk-scented breeze shall perfume the nostrils of the people of the world, and this spirit shall resuscitate the dead.  AB01507

Peter was a fisherman and Mary Magdalene a peasant, but as they were specially favoured with the blessings of Christ, the horizon of their faith became illumined, and down to the present day they are shining from the horizon of everlasting glory. In this station, merit and capacity are not to be considered; nay rather, the resplendent rays of the Sun of Truth, which have illumined these mirrors, must be taken into account.  AB00388

Judas Iscariot was the greatest of the disciples, and he summoned the people to Christ. Then it seemed to him that Jesus was showing increasing regard to the Apostle Peter, and when Jesus said, 'Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church,' these words addressed to Peter, and this singling out of Peter for special honour, had a marked effect on the Apostle, and kindled envy within the heart of Judas. For this reason he who had once drawn nigh did turn aside, and he who had believed in the Faith denied it, and his love changed to hate, until he became a cause of the crucifixion of that glorious Lord, that manifest Splendour.  AB00872


Question: In the Gospel of Matthew Christ says to Peter: "thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church". What is the meaning of this verse?  Answer: This utterance of Christ is an affirmation of Peter's reply, when Christ asked: "Whom do ye believe Me to be?" and Peter answered: "I believe that Thou art the Son of the living God." Then Christ said to him: "thou art Peter" -- since "Cephas" in Aramaic means "rock" -- "and upon this rock I will build my church". For others, in answer to Christ, had said that He was Elias, or John the Baptist, or Jeremiah, or one of the Prophets. Christ meant, through metaphor and allusion, to affirm the words of Peter. And so, since the latter's name meant "rock", He said: "thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church". That is, your belief that Christ is the Son of the living God will become the foundation of the religion of God, and upon this belief the foundation of the church of God -- which is the Law of God -- shall be established.  As to the existence of Peter's tomb in Rome, it is doubtful and disputed; some say that it is in Antioch.  AB00256 

The monasticism of the Christian church was mistaken. St. Paul was responsible for much of this because in one of his epistles he praises those who do not marry and prophesied that sects would arise which would not marry. St. Paul disapproved of marriage. But God did not give us good gifts that we should reject them. He created all these blessings that His servants may bless Him. ABU2806

Christ, for the preservation of Christian unity, spoke one word to Peter: "Thou art the rock, and upon this rock I will build my church." This word preserved Christian unity for eight hundred years, even though it was just a tradition   AB02519

