Personal identity of the devil is not true.  ABU2648

Verily, Satan hath appeared in every form in every city   BH05671

In the story of the Pharisees and the tax-gatherer praying in the Temple, the self-righteousness of the Pharisee was his devil, whereas the sins and the shortcomings of the Tax-gatherer which drew him toward God, to confess, and entreat pardon for them became his angel. The word of satan or devil means the opponent of God, - there is no entity of that name.  ABU1043

God is equally compassionate and kind to all the leaves, branches and fruit of this tree. Therefore, there is no satanic tree whatever -- Satan being a product of human minds and of instinctive human tendencies toward error. God alone is Creator, and all are creatures of His might. Therefore, we must love mankind as His creatures, realizing that all are growing upon the tree of His mercy, servants of His omnipotent will and manifestations of His good pleasure.  ABU0023

Asked, "What is Satan?" He replied: "The insistent self."   ABU3645

Satan lieth in wait and calleth the people unto vain imaginings   BH04638

The satans have been and are lying in wait in the name of truth.   BH09218

until Satan deceived him, who was indeed mankind's manifest enemy   BH06703

the hosts of Satan will not prevent thee nor deprive thee of this most great bounty   BH09788

Satans are spread throughout the earth and are occupied with leading humanity astray   BH06485

Some, through the whisperings of the Evil One, were deprived of the ocean of Thy mercy   BH07695

having followed the promptings of the Evil Ones who turn people away from this Most Great Ocean   BH05103

follow not the footsteps of Satan, for he commands you to associate partners with God, your Lord.  BB00002

for verily the satans lie in ambush for the servants with utmost craftiness and ever have done so.   BH10790

Satan appears in various forms and likenesses to mislead the people and prevent them from this straight path.   BH04449

People are weak - despite having complete trust, Satan sometimes casts doubts and whispers into heedless souls.  BH02414

Exert your utmost effort and striving to preserve this lofty and most exalted station, for the satans lie in ambush   BH02677

The first person that was vain and pleased with himself was the Satan. Vanity is one of the characteristics of Satan.  ABU2908

"Come ye and help me, that your names may endure upon the earth." Thus did he whisper into the breasts of the idolaters.   BH03186

This Satan is the human ego. For every human being there is a Satan, which is their ego, that at every minute and hour wants to overcome them.  ABU2239

We have not forgotten thee, but Satan hath lurked in every pathway, and thus the divine fragrances have been withheld from God's successful servants.   BH05097

Today the All-Merciful is manifest and Satan is evident. Blessed is the soul whom the whisperings of Satan did not prevent from the Most Great Announcement   BH10161

Yesterday, the editor-in-chief of The Christian Commonwealth requested that I write something for publication in his newspaper.  I wrote a piece for him describing how, because of his quarrel with Satan, Adam was banished from Paradise, and explaining how, for this reason, it is not permissible to quarrel even with the devil. It is likewise forbidden to engage in conflict and contention with ones enemies, inasmuch as this would render one deprived of the grace of the loving Lord. One must leave one's opposers to themselves. ABU3724

You had asked for the interpretation of your dream. ...standing in the prayer niche indicates resistance against the people of contention and the opponents of the Covenant of the Lord of Majesty, for the prayer niche is the place of battle with Satan, and through worship of the All-Merciful in the prayer niche, man wages war with "the first one who refused and showed pride." AB05122

O Remembrance of God! Say: Seek refuge with God from the evil of the whisperer who whispers in people's breasts, for verily your Lord, God the Truth, is ever watchful over all things.  BB00002

The Evil One is lying in wait, ready to entrap you. Gird yourselves against his wicked devices, and, led by the light of the name of the one true God, deliver yourselves from the darkness that surroundeth you.  BH02747

The whole globe is nothing before one ray of the Sun of Truth. Thus it is said in the Gospel that Satan took Christ to the top of a high mountain, showed Him the world outspread and told Him that he would give Him all these things if he would follow him. But Christ refused.  ABU2709

guard yourselves against the wiles of Satan, for he appeareth at all times with cunning. Seek ye refuge in God, O company of the righteous, that He may, through His power and sovereignty, protect you from his evil   BH06052

Sacred history records that Satan was favored at the Threshold of God and was the teacher of the angels, and in every one of the seven heavens he was known by a holy name. As soon as he began to see himself, to think of himself, he was fallen.  ABU1228

The call of Satan is: Hasten to falsehood! Hasten to calumny! Hasten to the pursuit of self and passion! Hasten to love of the world! Hasten to tyranny! Hasten to disobedience! Hasten to pride and arrogance! Hasten to evil conduct and manners!  ABU1735

Satan is the base self, which provokes destruction and impetuosity. Outwardly some individuals are refined and presentable, but in their essence they remain base. That is, externally they appear like others, but they harbor sordid intentions and designs.   ABU3143

Soon will Satan call out in the name of the All-Merciful - this is what We have informed you of beforehand, if you be of those who understand... for the manifestations of Satan, with utmost humility and submissiveness, lie in wait and have led and continue to lead people astray in the name of truth   BH03195

He gives life to bones when they are decayed, and He casts down to the lowest depths, just as that rebellious rejected one fell who was in the highest heaven - a glorious king and one drawn near to the Peerless Lord. When he showed pride toward one of God's servants, he fell from the Supreme Concourse to the lowest degree. Though he was among the greatest angels of heaven, he descended to the lowest plane when he grew proud and said "I am the most noble, the most high," veiled by elements from the dazzling Light. He looked at the physical temple and earthly element while heedless of the divine mystery deposited in that luminous temple. He focused on the niche while neglecting the lamp, and saw the dark shells while ignorant of the radiant and noble Pearl hidden in that supreme shell. Woe to him - blind, deaf and dumb, wandering in the desert of darkness and roaming in the pitch-black night, veiled from witnessing the Sun shining in the Most Glorious Horizon. AB00526

The word 'Devil' or Satan, is used in St. John 8 - "Ye are of your father the devil." This means that the Pharisees were not the true children of Abraham, or of God, - for had they been so, in this case, they would have shown forth good qualities and attributes. Whereas they showed forth only evil qualities such as envy, malice, uncharitableness, etc.  The word 'Satan' has many meanings.  ABU1043

In the Gospels a man is spoken of, out of whom went seven devils, that is seven bad qualities. Again, there is a devil within man, just as there is the divine voice within man. Anything, for the time that makes you become heedless of God, is your Satan.  ABU1043

