
yet none attained except a few among the men and women servants  BH07478

How many a servant hath heard the call and turned away therefrom   BH08037

This is why He formerly said that true believers are rarer than red sulphur.   BH03331

In these days there are many who thirst but very few who serve as cupbearers   AB03372


The believer in God has always been and will continue to be rarer than red sulfur.   BH06404

By your life, in this age those who are steadfast in love are rarer than the greatest elixir.  AB04532

The spiritual feast hath been sent down, and yet none seeketh after it save whom God willeth.   BH07404

Discerning, conscious souls, who comprehend the Reality of the Divine teachings are few in every age.   ABU1473


How many among the learned remained deprived of this supreme gift, while thou hast attained unto it!  BH05712

"A hundred thousand souls pondered...yet when the Sun of Divine Unity dawned...they all became dumb"   AB05310


calling all who dwell on earth at all times unto the horizon of the All-Merciful. Yet few are they who hear.   BH06922

But what benefit is there when those who would taste of it are few, and those who would drink of it fewer still?  AB09852

Although the friends in that land are few and the heedless many, yet this fewness is better than that abundance.   AB01554

Yet the people have not accepted this most great gift from God, exalted be His glory, save for a few, as is evident.  BH05032


The fragrances of the roses of inner meanings were diffused and the waters of knowledge were flowing, yet few were the seekers   BH06988

However, as pure and receptive ears are rare, therefore but few souls have attained and turned towards the Most Exalted Horizon.   BH06997

Yet I find none possessed of hearing to hearken unto them and turn towards them and draw nigh through them, save a few numbered souls.   BH06570


In those days the tests were so great that out of three hundred and fifty believers only a handful remained but later on they returned.  ABU1948


But there are always some who enter and, becoming intoxicated with the splendor of what they behold, remain for life to tend the garden.   ABU3048

Souls are many who in the years gone by have listened to the glad-tidings, but up to this time they have remained veiled, deprived and unmoved.  AB06597

Yet when the Sun of Revelation dawned from the horizon of the world, and the Speaker of Sinai spoke forth, all were found to be veiled save a few.   BH07264

For the covenant of Am I not your Lord? was well known and universal, and yet all forgot it, save for a handful of souls more scarce than the philosopher's stone.  AB06228

Many are called but few are chosen. This meaneth that while many are invited to the Faith, few are those who attain to the grace of guidance and the succour of divine favour  AB12229

In any case, from all directions rises the cry "Where is the teacher? Where is the teacher?" Yet teachers are very few. For this reason 'Abdu'l-Baha's heart is in the utmost grief and pain.   AB11811

The kingdom of the tongue was created specifically for the mention of the Best-Beloved of the worlds, yet only a few have attained thereunto. All eyes were created for the purpose of beholding the Dawning-Place of the divine Manifestation, yet only a small number have been honored therewith.   BH06918

What a bounty and what a favor it is that the sages of the world and the wise among mankind are incompetent of comprehension, yet the little children of the Kingdom have attained the Truth, dwell and abide under the shadow of the Tree of Life and are assisted by the everlasting and eternal gift!   AB06033

None believe in God and His signs in truth except a few of the foremost believers among the people of the Gate. Most people have been decreed by the All-Merciful's leave to be among those who join partners with their True Lord. None believe in God and His pure Remembrance except very few of the earliest ones.  BB00002

The bats do not perceive the light of the sun and the beetles cannot enjoy the fragrances of a rose-garden. Consider that the horizons of the world were enlightened through the light of the Beauty of His Holiness Christ; yet all the people were asleep, blind and sightless, except a few whose eyes were opened and perceived the lights.   AB04791

As long as a thing is rare and scarce, it seems more attractive and has greater value. In Bagdad there were few violets in our home and they were indescribably dear and attractive to our sight. But here none look at these violets and they are lost among so many flowers. As the quantity of a thing increases, its value decreases. And so it is in the beginning of the days of Holy Manifestations; because the souls are so few, they are counted as the essences of existence in the estimation of God.   ABU1807

Though but few persons accepted and were converted in the Day of each one of the Manifestations, yet these few surpassed and overcame great multitudes. During the time of Christ only a few souls believed in Him, but they were so powerful in spirit that none of the learned men among the Israelites could resist and stand against them, and afterward their light illumined the world, their call was raised abroad, their stars twinkled in heaven, their diadem became resplendent, and they are shining with great brilliancy.  ABU1569

Today there are seekers for all things except the pearls of wisdom and utterance that have appeared from the treasury of the Most Exalted Pen. These remain without seeker or buyer.   BH10707

