
I beseech Thee by the Dawning-Places of Thy Revelation, and the Manifestations of Thy Inspiration, and the Day-Springs of Thy Cause, and by Him through Whom Thou didst seal both Prophethood and Messengership from Thy presence, to aid me to act according to what Thou hast commanded me in Thy perspicuous Book. BH09964

Indeed, not every soul is worthy of this spiritual Kawthar. They have not yet understood the meaning of "Seal of the Prophets" as revealed in the Qur'an, for it is clear and evident that after the ending of Prophethood, both implicitly and explicitly, the appearance of God is mentioned and recorded in the Divine Book. To fully expound this station is beyond the power, reckoning and comprehension of this servant and others like him. It is better that I conclude this utterance with these blessed words:  One day, amongst the companions, both resident and pilgrim, the Tongue of Grandeur spoke these words: "This is the Day which hath been announced in His saying, exalted be He: 'The Day when thy Lord shall come.' Those who are possessed of insight can perceive that if, in this Day, any soul should cling to or seek after any one of the Names, he would be accounted among the idolaters." More than this I am not permitted to say.   BH00388

Koran--about the last of the Prophets: "The meaning is this,--For instance, take this teapot. It, in its beauty, is of itself in appearance. It is the last of its kind." ABU3455

Mohammed was known as the Seal of the Prophets. (The Mohammedans think this title means that no prophet will appear after Mohammed.)   ABU1841

When God sent forth His Prophet Muhammad, on that day the termination of the prophetic cycle was foreordained in the knowledge of God. Yea, that promise hath indeed come true and the decree of God hath been accomplished as He hath ordained.   BB00343


And from among humanity He sent forth certain souls who were sanctified from the conditions, veils, allusions and indications of creation, dispatching them with the royal seal of "I am the Truth" and sending them to guide mankind. And all these holy souls who were the manifestations of divine knowledge and dawning-places of heavenly wisdom were afflicted with countless trials. And this holy, blessed, and exalted chain ended with the Seal of the Prophets and King of the Chosen Ones, through whom the gate of heaven was opened and the Nightingale of Eternity sang upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree that which the Tongue of Grandeur had spoken before the existence of all things: Verily there is no God but Him, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. BH01809

Glory be to God! The people of the Furqan, despite what hath appeared from the Tongue of Grandeur - that He is verily the Messenger of God and the Seal of the Prophets - assert that the breezes of revelation and the fragrances of inspiration have been cut off after His Holiness, and this blessed word concludeth with His exalted saying: The Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.  BH09331

And prayers and peace be upon the Seal of the Prophets, he for whom God made this world like a ring upon his finger which He turns however He pleases   BH09732

Verily We have given glad-tidings unto all people that the great and blessed verse "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets" hath been fulfilled in the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.  BH11226

The Supreme Bab was the promised one of the Koran, with regard to the question of the Seal of the Prophets.   ABU1841

The Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - came with divine proof and heavenly evidence from the Dayspring of power with boundless favors   BH04898

And likewise they argued that 'Seal of the Prophets' is God's word and is explicitly revealed in the Qur'an, and it is certain that God is truthful and His Prophet is truthful.  BH00004

I say in truth, the blessed word "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets" found its consummation in "the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds."   BH10249

Ali Kuli Khan asked our Lord which was greater - Jesus Christ or Mahomet. Our Lord said the Muhammadans were accustomed to think Mahomet the greater because of his title "Seal of the Prophets," but in the time of Jesus spirituality and spiritual life was far greater.  ABU3507

Consequently if the Mohamadans believe that their prophet is the 'seal of the prophets' they have simply followed in the same footsteps of the Jews and the Christians and must repudiate their own religion because others have a prior claim to such assertions.   ABU2092

Know thou with certain knowledge that the Most Great Word which the All-Merciful revealed in the Qur'an through His saying "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets" hath been fulfilled in the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.  BH11118

They clung to a verse from Thy Book and crucified Thy Beauty and aimed arrows of lead at Him, saying "This one has claimed prophethood and contradicted the clear texts of the Qur'an: 'Muhammad is not the father of any of your men, but He is the Messenger of God and the Seal of the Prophets.'"   AB00108

See that which the All-Merciful hath revealed therein: "Verily He is the Messenger of God, and the Seal of the Prophets." To this We reply: "Indeed thou speaketh the truth. We do testify that through Him, Messengership and Prophethood have both been sealed and any one claiming after Him this most exalted station is in manifest error."   BH03572

Say: O people! Prophethood and Messengership have been sealed through His exalted Word but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets. Now must ye grasp, with the hands of power and detachment, the hem of God's bounty and hold fast to the cord of the blessed verse the Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds.  BH10243

The Shah instead of knowing the Blessed Perfection by His Glory went to the learned men and asked their opinion, and as they were His enemies, they would not say anything good of Him, but replied that Prophethood was ended by Mohammed, for he was the "Seal of the Prophets," and "this man who lays claim to revelation is a liar and should be killed."   ABU0334

The condemnation of God be also upon whosoever imputes to me the charge of having denied the unity of God, of having repudiated the prophethood of Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets, of having rejected the truth of any of the messengers of old, or of having refused to recognize the guardianship of Ali, the Commander of the Faithful, or of any of the imams who have succeeded him.  BBU0012

And blessings and peace be upon the Seal of the Prophets, through whom the fragrance of divine unity was diffused throughout the world and the banner of power was raised amidst the nations, and upon His family and companions, through whom God transformed disbelief into faith, vain imaginings into certitude, darkness into light, ignorance into knowledge, and discord into harmony, and through whom the hearts of those who turned to Him found peace while the limbs of those who turned away trembled.  BH01463

Now consider the firm ordinances of the Furqan, among which is the mention of the "Seal", in His exalted words "but He is the Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets." Consider also the words of the Letters and the Gates concerning the appearance of the Qa'im. Yet at the time of His wondrous manifestation all these sayings were set aside by a single word, as thou thyself bearest witness that the Prophet hath been from the beginning that hath no beginning and will continue unto the end that hath no end, as mentioned in the words of the Exalted One - may the life of all else be a sacrifice unto Him. How tenaciously did the people of the Furqan cling to these ordinances, yet remained deprived of their essence! This servant himself wrote numerous treatises on these matters, that perchance the people might rend asunder the veils and recognize the Lord of Names and Attributes. In brief, at the time of manifestation nothing profiteth or hindereth, as hath been mentioned, for the Sovereign of Manifestation is known through His own Self. Were it otherwise, and were He to be known through words and allusions, the verdict of non-existence, negation and hellfire would not have been passed upon the people of the Furqan and those veiled therefrom, notwithstanding these healing utterances. BH00620

Notwithstanding the obviousness of this theme, in the eyes of those that have quaffed the wine of knowledge and certitude, yet how many are those who, through failure to understand its meaning, have allowed the term "Seal of the Prophets" to obscure their understanding, and deprive them of the grace of all His manifold bounties! Hath not Muhammad, Himself, declared: "I am all the Prophets"? Hath He not said as We have already mentioned: "I am Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus"? Why should Muḥammad, that immortal Beauty, Who hath said: "I am the first Adam" be incapable of saying also: "I am the last Adam"? For even as He regarded Himself to be the "First of the Prophets"--that is Adam--in like manner, the "Seal of the Prophets" is also applicable unto that Divine Beauty. It is admittedly obvious that being the "First of the Prophets," He likewise is their "Seal."  BH00002

It is evident that every age in which a Manifestation of God hath lived is divinely ordained, and may, in a sense, be characterized as God's appointed Day. This Day, however, is unique, and is to be distinguished from those that have preceded it. The designation "Seal of the Prophets" fully revealeth its high station. The Prophetic Cycle hath, verily, ended. The Eternal Truth is now come.  BH00387

Furthermore, among the "veils of glory" are such terms as the "Seal of the Prophets" and the like, the removal of which is a supreme achievement in the sight of these baseborn and erring souls. All, by reason of these mysterious sayings, these grievous "veils of glory," have been hindered from beholding the light of truth. Have they not heard the melody of that bird of Heaven, uttering this mystery: "A thousand Fatimihs I have espoused, all of whom were the daughters of Muhammad, Son of 'Abdu'llah, the 'Seal of the Prophets'"?  BH00002

