They must have a new birth as His Holiness Christ said.   ABU2657


The Cause of Baha'u'llah is incomparable to any other cause; because it is the Collective Center of this age. This Cause regenerates the souls. Everyone receives a new baptism and attains to the station of the new birth. If he was a liar, he becomes truthful. Whereas formerly he was coward, he becomes courageous. Whereas formerly he was morally soiled, he becomes pure. Whereas formerly he was ignorant, he becomes wise. He is transformed entirely into the angelic state. Any person undergoing the process of purification, know ye of a certainty that he is a Baha'i, otherwise he has only changed his ideas and is a Baha'i in name. All the present communities do only change their ideas, but in the Baha'i Movement it is different. If a person is dark he becomes illumined[;] he becomes characterized with the attributes of Holiness and Sanctity; he will be set aglow with the Fire of the Love of God; he will become a new creation. The Baha'i Cause is the fountain of Job. Whosoever enters in it will become freed from all the moral and spiritual diseases. I hope all the people will attain to this high station. ABU2016

In brief: the people of the world are in need of eternal life, and eternal life depends on the manifestation of the Kingdom, and the manifestation of the Kingdom depends on the penetration of the Word of God and the confirmation of the Holy Spirit - that is, it depends on the divine power that brings the dead to life, makes the blind see and the deaf hear, and fulfills the second birth mentioned in the Gospel text: "That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. You must be born again."  AB00801

Birth into consciousness of another world begins here, a world for which this physical and material one is but the preparation and foundation.  ABU3236

The new birth is realized in this world when we become characterized with the characteristics of God, when His name and attributes become our name and attributes.  ABU2406

The human spirit attains eternity through faith and second birth.  AB00801

The supreme and most important happening in the human world is the Manifestation of God and the descent of the law of God. The holy, divine Manifestations did not reveal themselves for the purpose of founding a nation, sect or faction. They did not appear in order that a certain number might acknowledge Their Prophethood. They did not declare Their heavenly mission and message in order to lay the foundation for a religious belief. Even Christ did not become manifest that we should merely believe in Him as the Christ, follow Him and adore His mention. All these are limited in scope and requirement, whereas the reality of Christ is an unlimited essence. The infinite and unlimited Reality cannot be bounded by any limitation. Nay, rather, Christ appeared in order to illumine the world of humanity, to render the earthly world celestial, to make the human kingdom a realm of angels, to unite the hearts, to enkindle the light of love in human souls, so that such souls might become independent, attaining complete unity and fellowship, turning to God, entering into the divine Kingdom, receiving the bounties and bestowals of God and partaking of the manna from heaven. Through Christ they were intended to be baptized by the Holy Spirit, attain a new spirit and realize the everlasting life. All the holy precepts and the announcements of prophetic laws were for these various and heavenly purposes. ABU0020

reality is the second birth, reality is receiving the breaths of the Holy Spirit  ABU0614

They must have a new birth as His Holiness Christ said. They must become Bahais.   ABU2657

A new creation is raised up. A second birth takes place and a new creation is raised up.  AB00600

hath quickened thee, and baptized thee with the water of life and with the fire of the love of God.   AB06454

"Now he has stepped from the matrix of this world into the realm eternal. This is the second birth referred to by Jesus Christ."  ABU0758

"only those who in life had been among the spiritually regenerated ones, those who had been re-born or baptized of the Holy Spirit"   ABU1901

thou art baptized by the divine water and by the lordly fire and spirit and that thou art born again from the womb of this mortal world   AB06424

Faith is mentioned in the Scriptures as the 'Second Birth' or 'Everlasting Life.' In this day it is the Spirit of God, the real true belief.  ABU1000

pray for you the spirit of the Kingdom and the second birth, so that you may enter from the natural world into the world of the Merciful Kingdom.  AB12634

As the babe is born into the light of this physical world, so must the physical and intellectual man be born into the light of the world of Divinity.  ABU0024

Thou shalt receive baptism with the spirit of life and the fire of the love of God, seek second birth from the realm of nature, and attain eternal life  AB04710

help them to be born again from the darksome womb of nature and baptize them with the Holy Spirit, with the fire of the love of God, and with the water of life   AB03148

The use of the Greatest Name and dependence upon it, cause the soul to strip itself of the husks of mortality and to step forth freed, reborn, and new creature...  AB11550

They are baptized by the providence of God, by the fire of the love of God, and by the Holy Spirit. They have received a second birth, they have found eternal life.  ABU1182

The more you love, the nearer you will be to God. You must be born once again. You must pray and supplicate, and the more you pray and supplicate, the nearer you will be to God.  ABU1225

Jesus Christ said that we should be born again through the spiritual fire and love of God and be baptized by the water of life and the Holy Spirit, that we may obtain everlasting life.   ABU0977

You must be reborn by the Spirit. A child in the matrix has eyes and ears but only learns their use when it is born. A man cannot comprehend the Spirit before he has put aside earthly things.  ABU0767

But as soon as the guidance of God and the faith of God dawn from the horizon of a heart that person is a changed man. All his evil characteristics are transformed into praiseworthy attributes.  ABU2875

His true second birth occurs when he is freed from all material things: for he only is free who is not a captive to his desires. He has then as Jesus has said, become captive to the Holy Spirit  ABU2102


The trumpet of resurrection is blown and you are yet sleep? I say, out of your tombs, get out of your sepulchers! This is the hour of revivification. Avail yourselves of the opportunities presented to you.  ABU1141

Christ in that connection says: "The one who is borne of flesh is flesh, and the one born from spirit is spirit, ye must be borne again." Thou hast been borne of the Spirit and hast entered the Kingdom of God.  AB06488

If the angelic side becomes more powerful and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place and eternal life is found at this point. Man becomes then the noblest among creatures.  ABU0667

If the angelic aspect becomes more powerful, and the divine power and brightness surround man, then the second birth takes place, and eternal life is found at this point. Man becomes then the noblest among creatures.  ABU0185

Blessed is he who hath attained on this day to the lights of Our Name, the Self-Subsisting, and who hath been stirred by the breaths of revelation and risen from among the dead. And blessed is he who hath been born anew through the verses of his Lord  BH06245

Therefore Christ said one must be born a second time. As a child, by coming to this world, understands the conditions here, so we should go to the spiritual world to understand its conditions. The Prophets were born in the spiritual condition to understand the immortal world.  ABU0495

This is the new birth. When a man is attracted to the fragrances of God and becomes a Bahai, showing forth certain signs, then he is born out of the matrix of night into the kingdom. Day by day he becomes more illumined, more attracted, more wise, and his love to God becomes more manifest.  ABU1485

This is why His Holiness Christ says that we must be born again. When man is born from the womb of the mother he is freed from material darkness. In the same way he must be born from the world of nature so that he may become free from the darkness of the world of nature. This is the second birth.  ABU1725

The blind will be made to see; that which was darkness will become light; the timid will become courageous; the dumb will speak; the heedless awake. In brief, they will be perfected into the Image of God and His Divine Qualities; born of the Spirit, they will be Manifestations of union and harmony.  ABU1150


When this aspect of spirituality, this force of the kingdom, overcomes the natural forces, it is the process of rebirth, or second birth. This signifies baptism through the Holy Spirit, because divine radiance has overcome the darkness of animalism. For this reason His Holiness Christ declared that man must be born again.  ABU0214

"That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit." Just as man has been physically born into this world, he may be reborn from the realm and matrix of nature, for the realm of nature is a condition of animalism, darkness and defect. In this second birth he attains the world of the Kingdom.  ABU0109

When you return to America everybody must see the greatest change in you. You must show that you have had a second birth. You must show the greatest love and the greatest joy. You must show the greatest kindness and forbearance; in fact, you must show complete severance and humility, so that when you enter a meeting all will see the change in you.   ABU0941

This means that just as in the first birth the fetus comes forth from the matrix of the mother into the conditions of the human kingdom, even so the spirit of man must be born out of the matrix of naturalism, out of the baser nature, in order that he may comprehend the great things of the Kingdom of God. He must be born out of mother earth to find the everlasting life.  ABU0138

The sacred Books of all nations speak of the possibility of the new birth of man. What does this mean? A child in the womb of its mother is in utter darkness. When it is born into the world it comes into the Light. While in the womb it cannot understand the use of its faculties, but when it comes into the phenomenal world, then is understood the use of hearing, speech, sight, etc.  ABU0407

There is a person who, upon becoming a believer, becomes entirely a new creation. For instance, the most oppressive person on earth becomes the most virtuous. The most ignorant becomes the most learned. A thief and highway robber becomes supremely trustworthy. A shepherd becomes Abu Dharr al-Ghifari. A fisherman becomes Peter the Great... This person's very essence is resurrected.  ABU0857

A child in the matrix of its mother is in utter darkness. When it is born into the world it comes into the light. While in the matrix it cannot understand the uses of its faculties; but when it comes into the phenomenal world then the uses of hearing, speech, sight, etc., are understood. So when we leave here and go into the Kingdom of the Unseen we will know the uses of the bounties of God given to us in this world. Here we are prepared, and given faculties which are for use in that world.  ABU2406

creation refers to the second spiritual birth, as Christ said, Ye must be born again. Without doubt, the beginning of this spiritual creation was the Manifestation itself in every age and cycle, for each Manifestation of Truth is Adam, and the first to believe in Him is Eve, and all souls who are born with the second spiritual birth are their children and descendants. The Gospel states: That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. It also says in the Gospel: Who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.  AB03015

Before his first or physical birth man was in the world of the matrix. He had no knowledge of this world; his eyes could not see; his ears could not hear. When he was born from the world of the matrix, he beheld another world. The sun was shining with its splendors, the moon radiant in the heavens, the stars twinkling in the expansive firmament, the seas surging, trees verdant and green, all kinds of creatures enjoying life here, infinite bounties prepared for him. In the world of the matrix none of these things existed. In that world he had no knowledge of this vast range of existence; nay, rather, he would have denied the reality of this world. But after his birth he began to open his eyes and behold the wonders of this illimitable universe. Similarly, as long as man is in the matrix of the human world, as long as he is the captive of nature, he is out of touch and without knowledge of the universe of the Kingdom. If he attains rebirth while in the world of nature, he will become informed of the divine world.   ABU0100

His Holiness Christ says in the Gospel, the one who is born of the flesh is flesh and the one who is born of the spirit is spirit. The interpretation of this verse is this, that physical things are like the body but the breaths of the Holy Spirit are the spirit (in the body). The body must live by the spirit, and therefore His Holiness Christ spoke of the second birth. What is the second birth? It is this: Man while in the matrix world is deprived of bounties. When ushered into this world from that of the matrix he finds himself the possessor of eyes, ears, physical powers, of intelligence. Although God gave all these bounties to man, in the matrix world they were not yet apparent. Only when born into this world did these divine bounties become manifest. Man then found that eyes had been given to him, that he was possessed of ears, and that powers which could discover all created things had been granted him. He saw the sun, and beheld the moon; he glanced at the sea, and witnessed the plains. A rose garden he saw, green and verdant. Of all these things he was unaware in the matrix world; of them he had no knowledge. In like manner must man be born out of this world of nature that he may enter into the world of the Kingdom. Unless he be born from this world he cannot attain to spiritual susceptibilities nor can he discover the mysteries of the Kingdom nor behold the realm of God. When in the matrix world man could receive no tidings of this world. In that world he was, rather, a denier of this world for had anyone said to him that there was a world other than that of the matrix, a world most vast and spacious, where a sun was shining everywhere, and a moon, where a rose garden grew in utmost beauty-had this been said to him he would have denied such news, saying: there is no world save this (the matrix) world. But when he is born he sees that this world is a different world. It is an infinite world, where stars are shining in the heaven and rivers are flowing toward the sea, where rose gardens are adornments and orchards are as embroidery.  Again, the human world is like the animal world. What does it (the animal world) know of the world of the Kingdom! What does it know of God, of spirituality, of divine bounties! When he is born from the world of nature then will man see the world of the Kingdom, then will he behold the lights of the Sun of Reality and will comprehend the manifestations of divine bounty. He will then be submerged in the sea of the lights of mercy and will understand the secrets of second birth. The holy, divine Manifestations of God had come for this purpose, that man may be informed of the Kingdom of the Lord of Hosts, that he may know divine realities and may attain to the second birth.  ABU0010
