However, in those days the appointed time for the Cause had not been fulfilled, therefore We concealed the Face lest the servants recognize it, though it was shining from the horizon of holiness with manifest radiance. When the appointed time was fulfilled, the veils were rent asunder and thy Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower, appeared from behind them   BH02019

When the Day-Star of the horizons shone forth from the Iraq quarter, as that holy and wondrous Temple was seated before the Throne, He desired to utter a wondrous and glorious word...However, in view of the weakness of all created things and whatsoever is therein, and the poverty of the people of creation and all that pertaineth unto them, that Beauty of the All-Sufficient withdrew from the heaven of utterance to the kingdom of silence...For in those days the appointed time of silence in the kingdom of the divine Cause had not yet been fulfilled.  BH02345


The Joseph of Canaan appeared with grace and beauty in the market of earthly Egypt, but the Joseph of the true Beauty appeared in the divine Egypt with a luminous countenance, divine comeliness, heavenly grace, lordly beauty, glorified charm, a brilliant dawning-place, and an appearance like a rose garden in the market of manifestation. And when He found the buyers to be pretenders and the seekers to be heedless, He concealed His luminous countenance behind the veil of the unseen and hid His divine beauty behind the clouds of concealment.  AB06890

When the nine had passed, He was manifested with this Name unto all things, even as thou didst witness how in that year the revelation of the Divine Unity was both hidden yet visible, and manifest yet concealed.   BH10386

I am not in a position requiring people to recognize me, nor am I claiming any authority. Whoever claims knowledge or authority from within themselves, upon them be the curse of God, His angels and all people.  BB00378

Those have indeed disbelieved who have said that the mention of thy Lord's name claimed divine revelation and readings, then ruled on authority and its sisters. God shall slay them for what they have fabricated against Me in God's religion, and these are they who are the losers. Say: Verily I am a servant who hath believed in God and His signs, and I say not unto you that I know the unseen, nor do I claim any sign from heaven, but rather I recite unto you these clear verses from the Book of God for a people who remember. Say: Were I to abrogate a decree or command a new decree, then in that moment I would be bound by a true verse from the Book of God. But now verily I am a confirmer of that which ye possess of the pure religion. BB00430

And I bear witness before Thee concerning what people attribute to me, that I commanded naught in any book reaching unto all people save the purification of the air, and after making mention of the exaltation of Thy Cause and the Furqan, I joined therewith mention of the confirmation of Thy judgment from before upon all who believed in Thee until Thy judgment should reach them.  BB00030


I was silent; the Truth made Me speak. I was seated; He raised Me up for His firm and mighty Cause. Were the matter in My hands, I would have veiled My face from all on earth, but God hath manifested Me in truth. Verily He is the Powerful, the Trustworthy.   BH00950

"We have not completely lifted the veil. We have revealed Our Self to a degree corresponding to the capacity of the people. Otherwise, were the Ancient Beauty to appear in His beauty, none among all who are in the heavens and earth could bear to behold Him."   BH11199

in those days We concealed Our face from all who are in the heavens and on earth, according to a wisdom that was hidden in God's mystery. When the appointed time was fulfilled and the Command came forth, We drew aside the veils in Our chosen name and manifested Our Self to all created things   BH03096

the Beauty of Glory had veiled His face from the eyes of all the worlds  BH10327

My wish is to hide Thee from Mine own eyes: how much more from the eyes of men!   BH09299

He Who was concealed from eternity in the treasuries of might and grandeur hath appeared  BH11282

Who was concealed behind the veils of the Unseen and hidden within His inaccessible knowledge   BH05425

He veiled His face for numbered days, then revealed Beauty once again with His Most Glorious Name.   BH09422

Rejoice, for the Hidden One hath appeared - He Who was concealed in the treasuries of God's protection   BH03731

He is the one who kept company with Me in the land of Ta during the days when the Face was hidden from the worlds.   BH03031

in those days We concealed Our face behind seventy thousand veils lest the eyes of the polytheists should fall upon it.   BH03917

"I have concealed the living sun behind My hair. In truth, within the darkness of My hair I have hidden the light of My beauty"  BH11210

He cast off all concealment and raised high the banner of enchantment. He revealed His beauty and unfurled the standard of majesty.   AB05175

We veiled the Face behind a thousand veils lest anyone discover what was ordained in the Tablets from the Pen of a holy, protecting One.   BH01208

O people of the world! The Hidden Beloved hath appeared and the concealed Mystery hath been made manifest in the assemblage of the world.  BH11660

I was hidden within the tabernacle of grandeur and power, but when the appointed time was fulfilled, I manifested My Self as a grace from Me   BH04556

And when He found the situation thus, He concealed His luminous countenance behind a veil and hid His mighty beauty in the cloud of the unseen   AB06382

We remained in this concealment until God's appointed time was fulfilled according to what was ordained by His Pen on a preserved tablet of glory.   BH02540

You know that I have never desired and do not desire anything except utter evanescence, complete extinction, absolute poverty, and total helplessness   AB05634

We dwelt among the people as one of them, such that We would sit with them and walk before them morning and evening, and none among them recognized Us   BH03977

Yet in these days this Wronged One hath donned the garment of camel's hair, and though the lights of Revelation have encompassed the world, He hath veiled Himself.   BH01179

O My Name! By God! We have donned a garment of camel's hair lest anyone should recognize Me, and those whose garments of pride have been soiled should flee from around Me.   BH00898

Had the Amir-Nizam been aware of My true position, he would certainly have laid hold on Me. He exerted the utmost effort to discover the real situation, but was unsuccessful.  BHU0044

Whose manifestation was veiled by His beauty in such wise that none among creation recognized Him, could ye but know it, though He moved among them all the days as one of them   BH01867

the Ancient Beauty hath determined to veil the effulgence of His peerless Beauty behind the veils of glory, in such wise that no pure light shall ever again be witnessed from Him   BH03020

"He passeth amongst you at all times, and yet ye heed Him not. Will ye flee from My presence? Will ye turn away from your Best-Beloved, who loveth you and who standeth now before you?"  BH07319

It is not permissible for anyone to come to this town, for I make no claim to any cause, and the decree of sedition is worse than killing. Let the copy of the Arabic page be delivered to all seekers, that all may be certain that I am a servant without learning or claim. Whoever makes the slightest judgment of belief about this lowly one, God will question him about it on the Day of Resurrection. God and those who love Him bear witness that I make no claim that would make obedience to me incumbent upon anyone. The writings that indicate such a station pertain to my own lowly self and carry no authority.  BB00363

Blessed art thou, then blessed art thou! Joy be unto thee, then joy be unto thee, inasmuch as thou didst recognize the Dayspring of Revelation while He was veiled behind curtains of light   BH04411

Glory be unto Him Who hath commanded me to silence and to veil His mighty and glorious Cause, even though revelation hath reached such a degree that tongues and pens are powerless to describe it.  BH00013

And when He found the buyers to be pretenders and the seekers to be heedless, He concealed His luminous countenance behind the veil of the unseen and hid His divine beauty behind the clouds of concealment  AB06890

After Thou didst conceal Thyself behind the veils of perfection, hide behind the clouds of glory, cover Thyself with the veil of absence, and deprive eyes from witnessing and ears from hearing Thy address  AB03605

I beg forgiveness from God! This curtain and veil are due to the deficiency of our vision. For, in truth, that Daystar in its essence hath neither rising nor setting. In His Kingdom of glory He is always manifest.  AB07472

Would that the people were aware of the root of the Cause! By the True God, none hath knowledge of it save myself, yet We concealed it and made known mention of one created by My word, to safeguard the Dayspring of Revelation.   BH01052

"We were behind seventy thousand veils and We concealed the Face lest anyone of the worlds should behold it. But when the polytheists imprisoned Us, We unveiled the Face and manifested it like the sun from behind thick clouds."  BH01726

He is God! My hair is My Veil whereby I conceal My Beauty, that haply the eyes of the non-believers among My servants may not fall upon it. Thus do We conceal from the sight of the ungodly the glorious and sublime beauty of Our Countenance.  BH11496

The humility, submissiveness, and self-effacement of the Point of the Bayan is clear and evident throughout the Bayan. He saith that He is sanctified from being known through any recognition of His own or through what is revealed in the Bayan.  BH00094

In those days We concealed Our face lest anyone recognize Us, according to the wisdom inscribed in the Tablets by the Pen of Command. When the appointed time of concealment was fulfilled, We unveiled the Face with a sovereignty witnessed by all creation.   BH01721

By God's life! I concealed this with all diligence lest any hateful rejected one should become aware of it. By God! The Pen is powerless to recount what he committed in his vain life, for it is ashamed to mention that which is unworthy of mention this Day.   BH09228

Our purpose in making Yahya's name renowned and having him go into hiding was that the people of the Bayan would turn their attention to this House wherein the divine purpose was concealed. This was also the intention of the Exalted One in making the name of Azal renowned.  BHU0005

We desired not to reveal Our Cause to anyone, and thus were We in mighty concealment. But when the polytheists imprisoned Us in this prison, We therefore revealed Our countenance in spite of them and in spite of those who denied these wondrous, revealed verses.   BH01400

And He walked among you yet none recognized Him save His own all-knowing, all-informed Self. And there appeared from Him the signs of God and His grandeur, then the sovereignty of God and His power, but none was aware of this save God, your Lord and the Lord of all creation.   BH03326

Before He made Himself known, they believed in Him, circled round Him, and prostrated themselves before Him. But when the veil was rent asunder and He shone forth at midday with the lights of God, the Most High, the Most Exalted, they scattered from around Him like locusts dispersed   BH02459

We were among the servants for months and years, and We veiled Our face lest every deceitful wretch should recognize Us, until God's appointed time was fulfilled and the days were accomplished and the Promise came, and God's Cause appeared from this brilliant, luminous Dayspring.   BH01426

We were concealed in a mystery that was, in truth, most beautiful, lest anyone should recognize Us and lest the eyes of the treacherous should fall upon Us. But when the idolaters transgressed beyond their bounds, We removed the veil and revealed the Face with radiant lights of sanctity.   BH08058

For in that time the appointed hour of the Cause had not been fulfilled and the Face had not been unveiled, and We were behind a mighty veil. When the appointed time came, the fingers of divine power rent asunder the veil of concealment, and the Face shone forth from the horizon of glory and power  BH01249

Remember then that We were amidst you for some years and you did not recognize Me inasmuch as We had veiled Our Face from you and from all creation. Thus wert ye deprived from recognizing God and His Beauty, His testimony and His glory and His proofs and His signs and His Servant, if ye but know it.   BH01394

Therefore reveal not a word of what God hath ordained in thy being of the most hidden secret of the testimony of Oneness unto thyself. For if thou shouldst inform them of thy hidden affair, even a little in truth, they would sacrifice themselves for the love of God instead of thee in their longing for God  BB00002

"When We found none in the kingdom worthy, We concealed the Beauty of the Divine Identity in camel's hair, lest ye should recognize Me. When ye turned away with the fetters of your hearts, We revealed the Face from behind the pavilion of light, and ordained the matter in a tablet that was hidden from all eyes."   BH01729

The Beauty of God was among you, and His countenance shone forth between earth and heaven like a lustrous and burnished pearl, yet were ye veiled from Him, such that not one among you recognized Him, would ye but understand. The veil of His face was none other than His very manifestation, would ye but comprehend.   BH00903

We were among you for years untold and We veiled Our face from every perceiving eye lest anyone from among the people of the earth should recognize Us, and God is witness and knower of this. When the idolaters persisted, We lifted the veil of concealment from the face of Beauty and made it appear like the sun at high noon.   BH00395

But since We found the people of the Bayan more veiled than the peoples of former times, We have therefore concealed most matters from them lest they be among those who waver. Otherwise, We would have cast upon them thy name, then thy form, then thy station, that they might be of those who prostrate themselves before God Who created thee and them.  BH05848

Until matters reached these days wherein He desires to conceal the Beauty of Holiness behind the brocade of detachment, and to withdraw from all males and females, from every young and old, save those whom God hath made My charges in this worldly life. Therefore We drew aside seventy thousand veils from the face of the Cause, yet still ye were not content.   BH00845

The Beloved of Reality, Who for ages lay concealed behind the veil of glory and hidden in the mantle of the unseen, hath manifested Himself, and like unto Joseph of Egypt hath appeared in supreme beauty and comeliness, becoming renowned in every street and marketplace... until that Sun of Reality was concealed behind the clouds of glory and vanished in the invisible Kingdom.  AB02270

O people! It is as though I had never departed from among you, but rather journeyed for days and returned unto you with My Beauty, whose sovereignty every atom doth testify, yet ye knew Me not and denied My Cause, though by it were ye and all contingent beings created. Thereby it hath become evident that in Our former Manifestation ye knew not My Beauty, but only My garment and My robe amidst the earths and heavens. Had ye known My former Beauty, ye would have recognized it in this latter Manifestation when I revealed Myself from behind the veils.  BH01761

Until when the Cause reached unto His hallowed, sacred, exalted and luminous Countenance, He then concealed Himself behind a thousand veils, lest anyone should recognize Him thereafter, while verses were being sent down upon Him from every direction in such measure as none can reckon save God, thy Lord and the Lord of all worlds. When the time of concealment was fulfilled, We then revealed from behind a thousand thousand veils of light a light from the lights of the Youth's countenance, less than the eye of a needle, whereupon the people of the Supreme Concourse were thunderstruck, then the faces of them that are nigh fell prostrate.   BH00248


I do not claim to have knowledge of the unseen of the heavens and earth, or knowledge of what has been or will be, nor do I say a word without what has been revealed in the Book and the text from the Imams of excellence. Turn people away from exaggeration regarding me, for God knows two groups will perish: an excessive lover and a hateful detractor. Their sin is not upon me, for I said before and say now before God, His Messengers and His friends that I am a servant who has believed in God and His signs. God has honored me by His grace as He willed with knowledge from the people of infallibility (God's blessings upon them) - as long as the Sun of Identity has risen with identity and the Sun of Oneness has not set with oneness. BB00324

certain people have attributed to this weak servant the station of being the Gate (Bab) of the Imam, peace be upon him, whereas I have never claimed nor do I claim such a thing. It is incumbent upon one who claims such a momentous matter that he be characterized by all perfect attributes, both theoretical and practical, and that he lack not any branch of knowledge or custom, and that he have complete and detailed mastery over all outward and inward sciences, and that there be no matter of divine grace or supernatural occurrence that is praiseworthy in God's sight except that he possess it definitively, not merely potentially - like the potential that God has placed in all things, whether essentially or accidentally - and if he lacks any single matter or branch of knowledge, there is no doubt that he is not the bearer of this mighty station. God Almighty and His holy ones bear witness that I am neither learned in nor capable of a single branch of the customary sciences or any supernatural occurrences. And if any words have flowed from my pen, they have been purely instinctual and entirely contrary to the rules of the people, and they do not constitute proof of anything. And whoever believes concerning this humble one that I hold the station of being the Gate of the Imam, peace be upon him - God is my witness that such a person is in error and will be in the fire in the hereafter. And in this document there is no dissimulation or concealment, rather my outer and inner being testify to what I have written, and God suffices as a witness to what I say.  BB00471

The condemnation of God be upon him who regards me either as a representative of the Imam or the gate thereof. The condemnation of God be also upon whosoever imputes to me the charge of having denied the unity of God, of having repudiated the prophethood of Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets, of having rejected the truth of any of the messengers of old, or of having refused to recognize the guardianship of Ali, the Commander of the Faithful, or of any of the imams who have succeeded him.  BBU0012
Yet the all-encompassing divine wisdom hath veiled this mighty station and concealed this greatest gift. Ere long shall this most great favor, like unto the brilliant sun, have its effects made manifest and evident.  AB12826
 
