Our lesson is to study and learn.  ABU3499

Perfection is impossible without humility   ABU3209

Moral life consists in the government of one's self.   ABU3529

Therefore strive that you may become one of those noble ones.  AB10959


Divine qualities are unlimited. For this reason you must not be satisfied with one quality, but must try to attain all. Each of us must improve himself, that he may attain nothing short of the best.  ABU1504

Endeavor and strive eagerly that you may progress and advance rapidly.  ABU1108

Strive thou, therefore, to become a dawning-place of highest excellence.  AB09421

As long as a soul is not perfected how can he efface the defects of others?  ABU2029

No, man should develop all his qualities for each quality has its own use and function.  ABU3555

They must make mistakes to learn, and to unfold the higher which is within themselves.   ABU1898

In the world of humanity "good intentions" is the greatest means of personal development.  ABU3457

True valor lies in man's triumph over self and desire, in vanquishing the hosts of darkness  AB09997

Thus I encouraged those believers who were there and urged them to acquire human perfections  AB06278

occupy yourself with the cultivation of virtuous character and the improvement of conditions  AB03724

God willing, mayest thou be possessed of zeal and enthusiasm and not be remiss in acquiring virtues.  BH10084

If someone shows laziness or feigns ignorance, it is proof of lifelessness, withering and depression  AB02797

be characterized by those perfections which are the adornment of the world and the glory of humankind  AB10539

Man must become the educative origin of divine perfections. Man must become the embodiment of good works.  ABU2553

This being so, strive to become a man of the arena of divine knowledge and a luminous star in the heaven.   AB06730

Strive that the jewels of human beings may become manifest and evident through the burnishing of divine grace.  BH08971

The true love of self is that which leads forward and upward in a direct course toward higher life and being.   ABU1710

Therefore, strive to become true human beings who attain their heart's desire, not mere lifeless idols of Ferghana.  AB08747

Praising oneself is the sign of selfishness. Commending others is the passport to the realm of spiritual progress.   ABU2938

Night and day think on acquiring outer and inner perfections, and day and night draw illumination from pure springs   AB07241

All must occupy themselves with the refinement of their own souls and thereafter arise for the reformation of others.   BH06866

We have commanded all to that which shall preserve them from the promptings of self and passion and draw them nigh unto God   BH06240

Today, every soul must occupy himself with his own reformation, and manifest pure deeds and praiseworthy, acceptable conduct.  BH01740

No matter what level a human being reaches, he can still attain higher ones, so he is always making effort and desiring more.  ABU2560

Every person should first think about their own education, should think about perfecting themselves, for self-education is primary.  ABU0400

One can do it very easily if he makes up his mind fully, resolving to quit it forever. It is all a matter of character and determination.   ABU3358

"Purge out, then, from them, O my God, all doubts and idle fancies, and sanctify them from whatsoever becometh not their kinship with Thee"   BH09399

Even food should only be for meeting needs - excess beyond necessity leads to depression, listlessness and ultimately to illness and affliction.   ABU1996

If a person does not sense the same, remains unaware of his shortcomings, exerts no efforts to improve himself, then he is no better than a stone.  ABU2212

Keep thyself from self and be not neglectful in the Cause of God. Be in the utmost state of submission and contentment, and follow not thy desires   BH07503

His aim must be to rise day unto day in the scale of divine and human virtues; his today be better than yesterday and his tomorrow better than today.  ABU1210

When I was young they would light ten candles and at the range of a very long distance I would put out the lights one after another without missing one.  ABU3517

His work, both material and spiritual, must reveal what he himself is. By his arts, sciences, inventions and all of his work, man must reveal his highest capacity.  ABU1794

This Wronged One counsels the friends of God to perform such deeds as will conduce to the exaltation of His Cause and the elevation of His Word amongst His servants.   BH05334

That prison in the sight of wise souls is a school of training and development. Ye must strive with heart and soul that ye may become renowned in character and knowledge.  AB03471

We should not be occupied with our failings and weakness, but concern ourselves about the Will of God so that It may flow through us, thereby healing these human infirmities.   ABU3538

Physical champions and earthly men, although outwardly possessing strength and power, are yet captives of desire and passion, and are caught and debased by the lowest of things   AB04502

You are now in your youth; however you train yourself, so shall you remain. Therefore, engage in sanctification and detachment, and ever act contrary to the promptings of self.   ABU2046

When the wayfarer reaches this most exalted and supreme station, firstly no anger arises in him that he should need to suppress it, and no self remains that should need to forgive  AB06368

Before teaching others, one must first teach oneself. A person should first test their knowledge within themselves to see whether it is practically applicable or merely theoretical.   ABU3493

Whosoever hath planted the tree of divine love in the garden of his heart must needs preserve it, water it with the rain of remembrance, and keep it pure from the weeds of self and passion.   BH06458

Thus, through the restoring waters of pure intention and unselfish effort, the earth of human potentialities will blossom with its own latent excellence and flower into praiseworthy qualities  AB00004

If you follow My way, verily He will guide you to the straight path. Whoso is adorned with the ornament of My character traits verily shines forth in the kingdom and by him the horizons are illumined.  BH09100

This is the cause of eternal glory, this is the cause of the adornment of human reality, and this is what befitteth the youth in this glorious century. This is what beseeming those who are young in this sacred epoch.   AB04168

I hope therefore that at the Divine Threshold thou mayest secure favor, may become connected with the Kingdom by ideal ties and may daily progress so that thou mayest be accepted in the Sight of His Holiness Baha'u'llah!   AB07368

As much as thou art able, spend thy time in matters that are the cause of joy to heart and soul, so that in every moment thou mayest find new life, and in every day seek new strength, and in every night kindle an illumined lamp   AB05294

You ought first to be perfect, then to think about the perfections of others. Until you are perfect you cannot make others perfect; until you are rich you cannot make others rich; until you are alive you cannot give life to others.  AB01294

Assuredly, neglect not, throughout thy days and nights, the acquisition of spiritual and outward perfections, that the fruits of existence may be made manifest through thee. This is the counsel and testament of a faithful counselor.  BH08732

Up to the time I was 32 years I never slept in bed, preferring always a piece of mat and as cushion I chose one or two books. I went to sleep without changing my dress fearing that it will take me some time to dress in the morning.   ABU3164

The friends must show determination and display strength and might in the field of His service, and win the ball of precedence, so that this withered and dejected soul of Abdul-Baha may find spirit and fragrance and become hopeful.   AB06968

"I think we should learn to live in the body as if it were a glass case, through which we can look clearly on all sides. But we must remember that we can not see through glass unless it is clean, and no one can dust his own case but himself."  ABU3232

Consider how the greatest men in the world -- whether among prophets or philosophers -- all have forfeited their own comfort, have sacrificed their own pleasure for the well-being of humanity. They have sacrificed their own lives for the body politic.  ABU0042

I hope that, day by day, thou mayest step further, become characterized with a godlike nature and disposition, manner and morals, in order that thou mayest become the cause of the guidance of many souls and the instrument for the illumination of a region.  AB09054

Until now he has not drawn a single breath in servitude to the Sacred Threshold nor rendered any service to the servants of the Blessed Beauty. Perhaps during this absence divine aid and favor will arrive and he may take a step on the path of His good-pleasure   AB04587

The person who is satisfied with himself is the manifestation of Satan and the one who is not satisfied is the manifestation of the Merciful One. An egotist does not progress but the one who thinks himself imperfect will seek perfection for himself and will progress.  ABU2042

Make us all fruit-bearing trees and cause us all to become fertile plants. We are single letters - make us manifest words. We are brief phrases - make us clear verses. We are blank pages - make us the Perspicuous Book. We are lowly dots - make us letters of the Most High.  AB04649

If he cannot rise to th[is] height he may at least school himself in those tasks which are beneath his endurance. If he cannot come under the range of these two classes he has disqualified himself for any useful service and will be classed as a social[l] cumberer and freak.   ABU2286

How often I argued with him to set aside his will and follow the Will of God. He did not listen. I loved him. I wished him [to] become like unto a glorious sun irradiating the rays of severance and holiness but he preferred to wallow in the filth and quagmire of human propensities.   ABU1428

We sent down from the heaven of divine will a tablet and sent it to him by the hand of Salman, and We have now sent a copy of it to thee that thou mayest read it and convey it to him, that perchance he may reflect within himself and sanctify himself from the doubts that were in his heart and be purified from the uncertainties of the age.   BH00578

O servant of God! A king in this human world is one who inhales the sweet fragrances of the other world, and whose spirit, in the kingdom of the body, sits enthroned upon the seat of the heart and vanquishes and subdues the hosts of self and passion. This sovereignty leads to conquests in the divine realms and to the winning of spiritual kingdoms.  AB09245

Each man must look to himself and within himself to find his errors and weaknesses. When we find weak points in our character we must begin to tear down; and also we must not neglect to build up good qualities in place of the evil ones which we discard. It is a law of our nature that to remove a characteristic permanently another must be developed in its stead.  ABU0361

The life of man is useful if he attains the perfections of man. If he becomes the center of the imperfections of the world of humanity, death is better than life, and nonexistence better than existence. Therefore, make ye an effort in order that these children may be rightly trained and educated and that each one of them may attain perfection in the world of humanity.   ABU0528

Be ye the fruit-bearing trees of the garden of Abha, the shining lamps in the gathering of the friends, the fragrant flowers of the meadows of the world and the efficient members of the body polity. Be ye original, invent your thoughts and deeds. Do not let the sphere of your ideals be contracted. Be not imitators. Seek the radiant path of Divine Glory. Be ye attracted and enkindled.  ABU0510

For I have supplicated and beseeched before the Threshold of the Almighty that thy wish may be realized, so thou mayest overcome the self and perform charitable deeds and that human perfections may appear from thee; that thou mayest be endowed with lofty gifts; find thy way to divine wisdom and show forth the manners and conduct of those who are favored in the Threshold of the Almighty.  AB08189

Tests reveal strength as well as weakness and provide opportunity to remedy defects. The soul also becomes aware of its strength, a former weakness is overcome and a surprise awaits the soul; it realizes its growth, and so the heavy discipline is proved to be nutritive and a new confidence and trust is born in the consciousness, and this leads to mastery, self-discipline becomes self-mastery.  ABU3059

I desire each one of you to become so great that each may guide a country. Each of you must improve himself that he may attain to nothing short of the best. When one stops (advancing) he descends. A bird when it is flying, soars; but as soon as it stops flying it falls. While man is directed upward he develops. As soon as he stops he descends. Therefore I wish the beloved of God always to ascend and to develop.   ABU1802

Dissatisfaction with one's self is a sign of progress. The souls who is satisfied with himself is the manifestation of Satan and the person who is not contented with himself is the manifestation of the Clement One. The self-adoring individual - the egoist - does not advance. If a person has one thousand good qualities he must not look at them; nay rather he must strive to find out his own defects and imperfections.  ABU1778

Therefore if by the Grace of God and your own effort, your life is simple, do not make it complicated, do not let it be entangled with outside matters, keep it always full of the fragrance of pure trust and unalloyed confidence; but if through some unavoidable causes it has become a tangled skein of intricacies, try your best to unloose the confused mass, get another hold of the silken thread of life and start again on the royal path of artless and frank simplicity.   ABU1397

Devotion to one's calling, effort in its speedy execution, simplicity of sprit and steadfastness through all the ups and downs, these are the hallmarks of success.  ABU2961


