I am the Witness and the Witnessed One  BH06874

He is the Rememberer and the Remembered!  BH08462

He remembereth and praiseth His own Self   BH10321

Thus hath He indicated His Own Self through His Own Self.   BH08934

Glorified be He Who testified to His own Self by His own Self before the creation of earth and heaven.   BH03845

God testifieth of His own Self unto His own Self, before the creation of all things, that there is none other God but Him   BH10315

After ascending to the heavens of inner meanings, the wayfarers attain to three stations, meaning that the manifest Sun shines and becomes revealed in the mirrors of existing things according to these three ranks, although some consider the ranks of determinations to be five and have named them the five presences. Were I to explain in detail, a book would not suffice and I would not be able to fulfill it, just as that divine mystic and knower of divine mysteries, the lordly Imam, mentioned a drop from these stations in defining the world of the heart, which has surely come to your noble attention - that the final rank of these three stations is the journey from God unto God. In this station and rank, existence is effaced from self and subsists through the Truth. All are from God and unto God shall they return, and "Say: All things are from God" is sufficient witness and adequate proof of this point, as the mystic of Rum has said:  "The seeker's attributes are annihilated in His attributes, While his essence remains through the survival of His Essence."  This station certainly has no laws and seeks no customs, meaning all His deeds are pure justice even if outwardly they appear as injustice, and pure knowledge even if in form they appear as ignorance.  BH02091

Glorified and exalted is He! He has ever been His own describer of His Self, and His Essence the unifier of His Essence. None knoweth how He is except Him.  BB00014

That which alone beseemeth Thee is the befitting mention made by Thine Own Self, and that only which is worthy of Thee is the anthem of praise voiced by Thine Own Essence...  BB00485

He hath ever been the One Who uniteth His Own Essence with His Essence, and describeth His Own Self by His Self, for whatsoever else besides Him hath been created by His word.   BH05780

From everlasting Thou hast been known to Thyself through Thyself alone, and Thou wilt forever continue to be as Thou wert in the eternal past, with none existing besides Thee.   BB00418

He is the Rememberer and the Remembered! Every name beareth witness that He is sanctified from all names, and every thing testifieth that He is the Most Exalted, the Most Great.   BH06893

Since this is so, I make mention of what the tongue of Thy Revelation hath spoken in Thy Tablets: that Thou art not described except by Thyself and not mentioned save through Thyself.   BH03294

Verily He is the Hidden Mystery, and He through His own Self, the Mystery, hath testified that He is He, there is no God but He, the Impenetrable, the Inaccessible, the Hidden Mystery.   BH10032

God hath testified of His own Self by His own Self before the creation of His heaven and His earth that there is none other God but Him, the Single, the One, the Powerful, the All-Choosing.  BH10316

Verily He giveth thanks unto Himself before His servants and handmaidens. And verily He cannot be described by any description save His own, nor can He be mentioned by any mention save His own.   BH07437

God hath in this Day borne witness unto His Own Self by His Own Self that there is no God but Him, and the creation knoweth not a single letter of that testimony, for it is, even as it is, the very essence of testimony in the presence of Divine Unity.   BB00402

From eternity Thou didst Thyself describe Thine own Self unto Thy Self, and extol, in Thine own Essence, Thine Essence unto Thine Essence. I swear by Thy glory, O my Best-Beloved! Who is there besides Thee that can claim to know Thee, and who save Thyself can make fitting mention of Thee?   BH00296

God beareth witness unto His Own Self by His Own Self that verily I am alive in the Most Glorious Horizon. Therefore doth My Self, My Being, and My Essence bear witness even as He hath borne witness unto Himself, and verily He is alive at this moment in this Horizon - He heareth and seeth.   BH00899

Thou hast ever been, and shalt ever remain, the One Who uniteth Thy Essence with Thy Essence, Who paireth Thy Being with Thy Being, Who remembereth Thy Self through Thy Self, Who sanctifieth Thine Identity through Thine Identity, and Who magnifieth Thy camphor-like purity through Thy camphor-like purity.  BB00011

It is a glorification wherewith Thou hast glorified Thine Own Essence, magnified Thine Own Being, exalted Thine Own Self, sanctified Thine Own Identity, and praised Thine Own Greatness. It is a glorification purified from the mention of similitudes and likenesses, and sanctified from the mention of names and attributes.   BB00132

The First Station and the Sin in the rank of the Bayan is God's praise of His own Self, and the describer is the very description, and it is His saying I cannot reckon Thy praise, Thou art as Thou hast praised Thyself, and His saying: He manifested to it through it. God's description of Himself is by Himself, and to His creation by His creation.  BB00022

Thou hast ever been, and wilt ever be, sanctifying the pure essence of Thine Own Self through Thine Own Self, and glorifying the pristine reality of Thine Own Being through Thine Own Being, and unifying the essential nature of Thine Own Reality through Thine Own Reality, and magnifying the abstract nature of Thine Own Singleness through Thine Own Singleness.  BB00011

Ever hath Thy Reality praised Thy Reality, and all else doth praise Thee within the bounds of Thy sovereign might. Forever dost Thou magnify Thy Self through Thy Self, and should any besides Thee magnify Thee, it is but within the confines of the geometry Thou hast established through the limitations of Thy creation and brought into being through the manifestations of Thy might.  BB00024

Ever hast Thou been the Describer of Thine own Self unto Thyself, and the Unifier of Thine own Essence with Thine Essence. None besides Thee can comprehend Thy oneness or bear witness to Thy Self-Sufficiency, for Thou hast never been known through Thy creation nor described through Thy servants. When any besides Thee make mention of Thee, they but mention Thy creation, and when they unify Thee, they but acknowledge Thine invention.  BB00048

This description, which nothing in creation resembleth, God made the way to know Him and the sign of His oneness, that the contingent might reach the ultimate outpouring possible in the contingent realm. God made this description the reality of the servant, and it is the Lordship of the Lord, exalted and glorified be He. It is His self [nafs] and heart [fu'ad]. God described Himself to everything through everything, and cast into the essence of everything His own likeness, until He became known; and in all things there is a sign indicating that He is One. That description is the sign of the Lord and the reality of the servant. And this description has as many stations as there are breaths of the creatures. All souls are as mirrors, and He is manifest to the mirrors through the mirrors. He is the One, the sign of God and His description. And for all things this soul exists - whoso knoweth it hath known his Lord. The meaning is that there is no way unto God except through recognition of this soul, which is the same as the recognition of the Lord, for a thing cannot be comprehended beyond its source. Whoso knoweth his own self through the attributes of his Creator knoweth Him, and that description is the description of the Lord - there is nothing like unto Him, and He is the Most Exalted, the Most Great.  BB00098
