those who worship their own desires are more numerous than those who bow before Thy luminous Beauty   BH02684

they have cast away what is with God and taken what their own selves and desires have commanded them   BH04801

What corrupts a person is selfish desires. Always pray to stay far from that.   ABU1370

Man is brought to the condition of severance from his egotism and being absorbed into the Ocean of Love Divine.  ABU1872


How often they let the cloud of self and ego becloud the horizon and thus prevent the stars of their divine verities from shinning!   ABU2407

However, this station and these attributes hold true so long as one beholds therein the revelation of one's Lord. Should it turn away from the Sun and face the wolf of self and desire, then doth the light return to its source, and the mirror reverteth to a station wherein naught can be seen therein save the wolf.   BH00516

It is a pity that in these days, souls who have accepted the Cause and who gaze toward the Most Exalted Horizon should be occupied with themselves. In all conditions they must speak such words and perform such deeds as will cause the exaltation of God's Cause and bring assurance to the hearts and souls.   BH01457



The intoxication of selfish desire hath held men back from the Lord of all being.   BH06923

Asked, "What is Satan?" He replied: "The insistent self."   ABU3645

Center your thoughts in the Well-Beloved, rather than in your own selves.  BH02747

Blessed is the soul whom the promptings of self have not kept back from the Lord of Names.   BH09179

Follow not the promptings of self   BH09091

give up the dictates of selfishness and personal interest  ABU1256

these souls who desire nothing except the promotion of their own interests and advantages  ABU2214

One person is at all times thinking of himself, while another is at all times thinking of Truth.  ABU1547

Those who play for their own little selfish ends give no true light to the world and perish of their own futility.   ABU3165

if man looks after himself only, he is no better than the animal, for the animal alone is to that degree egotistic.  ABU1527

Never was their purpose the branch, nor is it now. Rather, they have made him a means for attracting people to their own causes.  BH05325

the self is full of affliction - the weaker it is the better, for its strength is the cause of weakness and its rulership is bondage  AB03358

They work for their own personal gains... Various parties in Iran have no intention of doing good. Their purpose is to gain personal profit.  ABU2311

If the object, however, is to promote personal interests, then such a position will be injurious to humanity and not beneficial to the public.  ABU2720

Such is the condition of people and the fruit of the whisperings of the ungrateful self. Vain indeed is that which they do! Soon thou shalt see them in evident loss.   AB05312

It is very strange that up to this time not one Persian has come here, just to pay a social call or express a welcome greeting. Every one of them wants money and help.   ABU1981

They gave each other no peace, and every day they pursued pleasure and personal gain and selfish aims until they squandered that glory and laid waste such prosperous realms.  ABU2134

Others may love you but it may be for some ulterior purpose. They may love you because they expect some day or some time to receive some reward from you; but I expect reward from no one.  ABU2348

take their narrow circle of affected fellow-feeling as the limitless sea of universal sympathy or the tiny rivulet of their self-love as the fountain-head of an all-inclusive brotherhood.  ABU2009

Men keep their possessions for their own enjoyment and do not share sufficiently with others the bounty received from God. Spring is thus changed into the winter of selfishness and egotism.   ABU1446

'Why do you not give some of it to this dying animal?' asked the traveller. Insulted, the Arab stared at him and exclaimed, 'I said I loved the dog, but not enough to share my own bread with him!'   ABU1368

Still there may be souls like Mrs. Kirchner, Dr. Nutt and Fareed who have personal motives and wish to make a station for themselves. Dr. Fareed wishes to acquire money. He has no religion or faith.   ABU2638

"That which is always the cause of inharmony and delays the progress of the Cause of God is love for leadership and self-interest. Those who cherish such tendencies imagine that these will be concealed from others."   ABU0467

It is because they are seeking their own interests and not the good-pleasure of the Lord of mankind. They are steeped in the quagmire of their own egoism and are not striving to save themselves out of the bog of selfishness   ABU0426

Today all the peoples of the world are occupied with self-worship. They exert the utmost effort to promote their material interests, worshipping themselves rather than the Divine Being, seeking their own benefit rather than the common good   AB00388

If this is simply selfishness it is as disastrous to the soul, but if it be spiritual and conscious devotion to self it becomes a spur upward and onward. Mere selfish love is like a man whirling round and round until he becomes dizzy and falls.   ABU1710

Some have committed reprehensible deeds according to their carnal desires and have attributed them to the Truth, and the helpless servants who were unaware of the essence of the Cause have, by following such souls, strayed far from the straight path.   BH03374

Egoism is the cause of all discord. No affliction in the realm of existence compareth to selfishness, which causeth man to prefer himself above others. It giveth rise to arrogance and heedlessness. All adversities, when carefully studied, are caused by selfishness.   ABU0420

Especially the rescue from self-love. This is a strange trait and the means of the destruction of many important souls in the world. If man be imbued with all good qualities but be selfish, all the other virtues will fade or pass away and eventually he will grow worse.   AB03092

But all these sayings are but words and we see very few of them carried into the world of action. On the contrary, we perceive that men are carried away by passion and selfishness, each man thinking only of what will benefit himself even if it means the ruin of his brother.  ABU0660

They have capped this well so that others would not benefit from its drinking water. Sanctified is God! What gain or profit do they expect by showing such iniquity towards others? Some people are unable to hide the secrets of their hearts and inner thoughts, and they are incapable of not perpetrating harm.   ABU0396

Selfishness must also be rooted out, not only in its gross, but in its exceedingly subtle forms. A man may be selfish even to an extreme and be quite ignorant of it. Not until a man has wholly freed himself from lust and selfishness will he be able to distinguish between what is good in him and what is not.  ABU0361

All these wishes are well worthy of asking, especially the rescue from self-love. This is a strange trait and the means of the destruction of many important souls in the world. If man be imbued with all the good qualities, but be selfish, all the other virtues will fade or pass away, and eventually he will grow worse.  AB10792

And likewise I have detached Myself from these who follow the desires of their souls and are not conscious in any matter, and whose only concern in this world is to put themselves before God's servants and to sit in the chief seats of gatherings and to boast and make claims about that which they neither know nor understand.  BH01638

Every normal person is totally egocentric as a child, his small self is the centre and measure of all things to him. From the untrained self of the child grows the desire of the youth to be some-thing, and from this there will arise in the mature man, besides the desire for respect, the feelings of being misunderstood, of being underrated, of being slighted.   ABU0069

Some may imagine that because they frequent theaters, accumulate wealth, or attend balls, they are always enjoying life: whereas, in reality, these things often scatter thoughts, confuse the minds and dissipate the faculties. The effect of these amusements is like the effect of the wine upon the body:-it exhilarates at first, but its after effect leaves one weak and the mental faculties exhausted.   ABU1040

"I thank you very heartily" the master said to his expecting clerk "for the gift you sent to our house. It saved us a great deal of expense I assure you. We have been feasting on it during the last week. The first day we ate its ears; the second day its eyes; the third day the skin over the head, the fourth day, its tongue, the fifth day its meat, the sixth day we cleaned its bones and on the seventh day its brain."   ABU0932

The initial wish does not come from Abdul Baha. It comes from them. It is generally clothed with such words as these: 'We only wish to do that which Abdul Baha wishes us to do.' And they are sincere in this, for they do not know the subtlety of the ego of man. It is the Tempter (the subtle serpent of the mind), and the poor soul not entirely emancipated from its suggestions is deceived until entirely severed from all save God.   ABU1898

It is evident that divine teachings are contrary to self and desire. How can a soul carry these out if it has no faith? Divine teachings constitute the legislative power. A legislative power requires an executive power. The divine ordinances constitute the legislative power. However, it requires an executive power, and the executive power cannot be achieved except through faith and investigation. Despite divine teachings in every age and dispensation, particularly in this Most Great Cycle, those souls who have faith are prevented by their own selves and desires from acting according to these teachings; rather, they arise in complete opposition to it.  ABU0519
