If a soul is interested in humanitarian deeds, his joy is perennial.  ABU1296

The love of humanity is a glittering generality without social service; Social service is a mere catch-word without sacrifice and severance   ABU3209

service to all humanity  AB03723

Arise with wisdom to serve the Cause of your Lord Who hath come for the betterment of the world and the unity of nations.   BH06453

this Wronged One has desired naught but the reformation of the world and the edification of its peoples  BH07838

There is no such thing as self-development. Growth only comes by working for others.  ABU1192

The Baha'is must be the servants of universal peace, the workers for the cause of the oneness of the world of humanity, the spreaders of heavenly love amongst the children of men, the promulgators of the principles of the progress of mankind, the dispellers of the clouds of religious, national, patriotic and political prejudices, and the upholders of the inviolable rights of equality between men and women. They must correspond religious ideals with the deductions of science and reason, and discard all such theories which cannot stand the test of intellect and empirical knowledge  ABU1561

this Wronged One hath come for the reformation of the world. He hath not followed and will not follow the corrupt, even should all the wolves of the earth gather against Him  BH10129

This Wronged One appeared in days when naught remained of justice save a name and of equity save a trace. We summoned all to praiseworthy character and goodly deeds. Every fair-minded one beareth witness that this Wronged One hath had and hath no purpose except the reformation of the world and the edification of the souls of nations.  BH00143

Occupy not the days of your lives with the betterment of your own affairs; arise, rather, for the betterment of the world.   BH07545

This Wronged One hath at all times summoned the people unto truth and hath had no purpose except the reformation of God's servants and the edification of the world.  BH06850

"Man is great; his aspiration too must be great in reforming the world and bringing comfort to nations."   BH01687

God hath ordained upon every soul the betterment of the world and the refinement of the souls of nations.  BH11863

Hold fast unto wisdom and cleave unto the betterment of the world and the refinement of the souls of nations.   BH04919

He will enlist himself in the army of human progress, to realize the limitless advancement of the human race.   AB04610

They must exert every effort for the advancement of the souls in all stages of existence. They must educate the children and teach them useful arts, reach ever higher degrees of civilization, multiply national crafts and industry, promote trade, improve agriculture, provide learning for all, educate women and honour them, and show consideration for the handmaidens of God. They must strive with heart and soul to create love and unity among the friends, to serve the government, and to be true to the royal throne, the well-wishers of everyone, and obedient to the valiant sovereign.  AB00325

this Wronged One hath had and hath no purpose except the reformation of the world and the edification of the nations   BH03734


We beseech God to ever aid His loved ones to that which will lead to the reformation of the world and the tranquility of the nations.   BH02357

Man must strive and make an effort in the advancement of the ideals of justice, Universal civilization and the betterment of the conditions of the public.  ABU2553

Through justice commerce thrives, industries are developed, morals are refined, honesty is established, international comity fostered and education popularized.   ABU2628

That which hath been made manifest in this Most Great Revelation is a mighty cause for the reformation of the world and the refinement of the souls of all peoples.   BH07999

These teachings of the Ancient Beauty, which are the foundation of the progress of the world's peoples and the ladder of ascent for nations and peoples, must be implemented  AB03496

Our duty is to promote the manifest light - that is, we should pursue whatever leads to human perfections and virtues and the comfort and tranquility of the world of existence   ABU1598

Therefore let us strive, so that we may spread divine Civilization, so that we may unfurl the Ensign of Knowledge so that we may illumine the minds, so that we may enlighten the intellects.  ABU1393

The basis of God's perfect laws is love for humanity and help for human needs. If all people followed this Revelation, the masses would be immeasurably uplifted and the Cause of God glorified.  ABU2368

We have desired naught but the salvation of nations and the betterment of the world, yet the people turned away from Us and committed that which caused the pillars of the Primal Word to be dispersed.  BH04347

to guide through you all things unto that whereby the world may be civilized and the affairs of nations be set in order, and souls may ascend unto the Kingdom of the knowledge of the Cleaver of Dawn.  BH07957

He must be the Establisher of Universal Civilization, the Unifier of religions, the standard-bearer of universal Peace and the embodiment of all the highest and noblest virtues of the world of humanity.  ABU1402

I swear by the grace of the Greatest Name that if souls would arise as they should, in a brief time the face of the earth would become the supreme paradise and this dusty heap would become the Abha Paradise   AB00979

May they arise to fulfill the divine teachings and contemplate peace and reconciliation with all the peoples of the world. May each become a kind servant to the human world and a loving friend to all humanity.  AB04682

Rather, they should strive for the refinement and education of people, the guidance of nations, kindness and love between peoples, the connection of the human world, human unity, and universal comfort and tranquility.  AB02279

Every one is thinking in the terms of progress, upward march. In the strictest sense, there is no reactionary movement in America. What is called reactionary there, is radical progressiveness in other parts of the world.  ABU2004

Baha'o'llah revealed heavenly teachings that will reform the phenomenal world, the world of spirits and hearts, the world of thought and capacity, the world of religion and philosophy. Verily the revelation of Baha'o'llah will reform all that pertains to man.  ABU0820

Strive and make an effort so that this human world may achieve mighty progress in all degrees, even at the center of the earth, may show forth wondrous signs, and may become, in all aspects of perfection, the manifestation of the glorious signs of the All-Glorious  AB00860

In this century of light precede all others in sympathy, in philanthropic actions, in physical and intellectual culture and in association with the rest of mankind. Do not let the pool of your thoughts become stagnant. Open the shutters of your mind and air its secret chambers.  ABU0510

rather engage in educating the nation's children, promote sciences and knowledge, strive to improve morals, raise the banner of the oneness of humanity, lift up the call of human equality, remove the foundation of war and strife, and adorn the edifice of peace and reconciliation.   AB00703


Therefore you must strive day unto day that the sun of Love may dawn from your hearts; day unto day the attractions of your consciousness may develop; day unto day you may become more loving to humanity, day unto day establish more rapid means of communication between the children of men.   ABU2256

Without action nothing in the material world can be accomplished, neither can words unaided advance a man in the spiritual Kingdom. It is not through lip-service only that the elect of God have attained to holiness, but by patient lives of active service they have brought light into the world.  ABU0660

Rather, they must strive day and night so that morals may be transformed and thoughts reformed, vices may vanish and virtues appear, the foundation of hatred and enmity may be destroyed, unity and harmony may raise their pavilion, and the oneness of mankind may adorn itself in utmost glory and beauty.  AB00215

they must promulgate universal peace, free man from every prejudice, bestow joy and gladness, exercise kindness to all men and do away with every difference and distinction. Just as Baha'u'llah addressing the world of humanity saith: 'O people! Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch.'   AB03928

Perchance such ways and words from you will make this darksome world turn bright at last; will make this dusty earth turn heavenly, this devilish prison place become a royal palace of the Lord -- so that war and strife will pass and be no more, and love and trust will pitch their tents on the summits of the world.  AB00915

This is conducive to the rejuvenation of the world of man, the progress of the ideals of mankind, the disclosure of the mystic virtues of the inhabitants of the earth, and the advancement and exaltation of the infinite degrees of existence; even the world in its physical aspect shall become ameliorated and perfected.  ABU1424


It is my hope that this dust may settle and that Iran may experience comfort and composure, that its heaven may be illumined, that a divine civilization may be founded there; that Persians may so advance as to shine throughout the world, become exemplars to all nations, lay the foundation of human perfections, progress both materially and morally  ABU3761


God willing, may the people of the Crimson Ark, both men and women, succeed in fulfilling that which hath been revealed from the Most Exalted Pen, and may they appear adorned with such virtues as shall cause them to become the educators and refiners of the souls of the world. For in the Book of God, all are commanded to reform the world and educate the nations.  BH06517

Any plan undertaken with the universal good in mind is of God. Although undertakings relating to the general good hath been partially attained in progressive countries, only those endeavours which are directed in their entirety towards universal well-being can reflect the sacred Word of God and His wisdom. Therein doth lie the ultimate source of that power which can transform the world of being and cause fundamental change. This force is creative, it is generative and transformative, and will bring forth a new creation.   AB04356

In the world many banquets, assemblages and meetings have been organized, but those gatherings have been commercial, political, educational or social in their purpose and motive. Meetings are held for the promotion of financial plans or promulgation of the arts and sciences. Others have sought to establish agricultural industries or consummate territorial agreements. Innumerable assemblages have been held for consultation upon subjects of learning and education. All such meetings have for their object the advancement of civilization.  ABU0260

God has given us eyes, that we may look about us at the world, and lay hold of whatsoever will further civilization and the arts of living. He has given us ears, that we may hear and profit by the wisdom of scholars and philosophers and arise to promote and practice it. Senses and faculties have been bestowed upon us, to be devoted to the service of the general good; so that we, distinguished above all other forms of life for perceptiveness and reason, should labor at all times and along all lines, whether the occasion be great or small, ordinary or extraordinary, until all mankind are safely gathered into the impregnable stronghold of knowledge. We should continually be establishing new bases for human happiness and creating and promoting new instrumentalities toward this end.  AB00004



God hath created you for the betterment of the world.   BH01970

I beseech God to make the world one region and one homeland, as has been revealed in the Tablets from the heaven of His Will, and to grant His servants the ability to occupy themselves with the betterment of the world and the refinement of their own souls, so that the light of knowledge may encompass all possibility.  BH00120

Direct all your thoughts to the progress of all, strive for the betterment of the condition of all souls and the refinement of character, and become endowed with divine attributes.  AB04515

Most are unaware of the intention of this Wronged One and His loved ones, for were they to become cognizant they would testify that there hath been no purpose save the betterment, elevation and advancement of the servants.  BH11647

Your aim is to render a service to the world of reality.  AB08890

His aim is good and a service to the world of humanity.   ABU3391

If you are eager to serve God, serve mankind.  ABU2278

You love all humanity and desire to serve the human world.  AB06571

Servitude to all the human race is my perpetual religion.   AB03588

...become the cause of enlightenment to the world of humanity.  AB05326

like the life-giving bounty, nurture all the people of the world  AB09876

They must be the means of the happiness and progress of the world.  ABU2277

your greatest wish is to render a heavenly service to the world of humanity  AB12532

My hope is that you will all be enabled to serve the world of humanity unitedly.  AB04340

You are, indeed, serving the world of humanity and expending your life for mankind.  ABU2468

engage in the reformation of the world and the refinement of the souls of the peoples   BH03957

They desire service to the world of humanity. Therefore they are free from every bond.  AB08659

I hope that you will be under the protection of God, will succeed in rendering service to humanity and will always be a source of happiness to every heart.  ABU1819

"Service to humanity is service to God. Let the love and light of the Kingdom radiate through you until all who look upon you shall be illumined by its reflection."  ABU0543

God has created you for admonition, exhortation, the readjustment of morality, the illumination and the spiritualization of the world of humanity. This is your duty.  AB02849

that each one of you may become a resplendent sign, a banner in the Abha Kingdom, the cause of love and of amity among all men and serviceable to the world of Humanity   AB03250

I hope that God will assist you to serve all humanity without distinction between sects and religions, but rather to treat all according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah   AB04975

They expected us to be servants and propagators of their old dogmas and customs, not knowing that we are obliged to serve humanity and spread universal love and harmony.   ABU2598

Or he may look after his health with the good intention of serving humanity and of living long enough to discharge one's duty towards mankind. The latter is most commendable.   ABU2284

Seek the well-being of all horizons and strive for the comfort of all who dwell on earth. Be the cause of gladness to the world of humanity and the means of prosperity for the servants of God  AB08605

but rather spent their time in supplication and prayer, turning to the glorious Kingdom, striving for the good of all, serving humanity, experiencing spiritual attractions and divine inspirations   AB00856

be a great bounty for the people of the world, and show love and kindness to humankind to the extent possible. Day and night their thoughts should be confined to guiding humanity and educating souls   AB05546

Perchance the friends of God may become the cause of humanity's salvation and the means of extinguishing the fire of hatred that has ever been and continues to be ablaze in the hearts of the world's peoples.  BH01385

Therefore you must become so enkindled that you will banish all lethargy from the world of existence. Make the world a different world and cause humanity to receive bounties from the Most Great and Glorious One.   AB02654

They must be truthful and kind to all the peoples of the world, deal with all humanity with pure intent, absolute benevolence and heartfelt love, be sincere and well-wishing toward all the governments of the world  AB00760

Thus will people offer service to one another with all their hearts for the sake of God and in order to fulfill the duties of devotion to Him and service to humanity and not for the purpose of acquiring praise and fame.   ABU2127

I hope that through God's bounty thou wilt become ever more near to the divine threshold and successful in serving the Cause of God... to render outstanding services, and to leave an eternal trace in the world of humanity.   AB05215

If thou desirest to be confirmed in the service of the Kingdom of God, live in accord with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah and that is; - real love for the world of humanity and the utmost of kindness for the believers of God.  AB11423

You are indeed a servant to humanity. A servant to humanity is a servant to God. Your mission is a high, holy and sanctified one; there could be no greater, no holier mission than that of bringing peace to this warring world.  ABU0363

Hands which have labored in the Cause of education are ever blessed. I am pleased with your hands. I love such hands very much, because they have worked for the children. May thou become a great educator and guide to humanity!   ABU3431

Jinab-i-Amin offers utmost praise for your outstanding services, that praise be to God, you are succeeding with perfect strength in servitude to the Threshold of the Divine Unity and are benevolent toward all humanity from every direction.  AB01914

This too is a noble service, therefore I interpret you as divine deliverance, for you are truthful, trustworthy, steadfast and resolute. My hope is that you may be successful in serving the world of humanity and render distinguished service.  AB07346

This is worship: to serve mankind and to minister to the needs of the people. Service is prayer. A physician ministering to the sick, gently, tenderly, free from prejudice and believing in the solidarity of the human race, he is giving praise.  ABU1800

Let all the peace workers gather together their scattered forces and combine their material and moral resources. They must look forward and not backward, up and not down. They are the real benefactors of humanity, the burning torches of bright hope.  ABU1416

All humanity must obtain a livelihood by the sweat of the brow and bodily exertion, at the same time seeking to lift the burden of others, striving to be a source of comfort to souls and to facilitate their means of living. This in itself is devotion to God.  AB09747

If the object is to promote the public good, then the president must be a well-wisher of all and not a self-seeking person. If the object, however, is to promote personal interests, then such a position will be injurious to humanity and not beneficial to the public.  ABU2720

What befits the servants of the Blessed Beauty is to serve all humanity and strive to spread universal peace, to raise the banner of harmony and lay the foundation of friendship, to lift up the call of truth-worship and become the cause of fellowship and unity among all peoples.   AB00581

Be the cause of freedom for captives and the source of joy and happiness for the poor. Become divine healing for the sick and spiritual medicine for the ailing. Be a salve for every wound and a remedy for every pain. Be a bright candle and spread light in the gathering of humanity.  AB02202

Lead the thirsty to the spring of living waters and give true healing to the sick. Become students of truth and divine physicians. Treat the sick among humanity, make the deprived ones intimate with mysteries, give hope to the hopeless, awaken those who sleep, make the heedless mindful.   AB01840

I have brought the message of Baha'u'llah to this country in order to teach people to investigate truth, to render service to humanity, to endeavor to bring about international peace, to exert every effort to guide humanity, to show kindness to all creatures and to raise the Call of the Kingdom.   ABU0799

that they may treat all humanity with utmost truthfulness and love, both in private and in public, becoming a refuge for the fearful, a haven for those who cry for help, physicians to the sick, supporters of the lowly among men, sweet crystal water for the thirsty, a heavenly feast for the hungry  AB08734

Beseech thou God that thou mayest embrace a Faith that is heart-delighting and sweet as sugar, which is the essence of the manifest Religion - and that is this: that thou mayest become a mercy from the Lord and a gift from the Creator, and through thy words and deeds bestow life upon the world of humanity.  AB09597

Our duty is to counsel and advise humanity, educate the ignorant, and guide the wayward. We absolutely have no interference in any affairs except giving counsel and guidance, directing people to seek the good pleasure of the Lord, educating humanity in the intellectual and spiritual perfections of the human world   AB01872

I hope that you will ever strive for the good of all humanity and render outstanding service to mankind, that you will endure every hardship and difficulty in this path, and that you will succeed in manifesting such character and conduct and speech that you may become a luminous lamp in the assemblage of humanity.  AB03415

Let us treat all people with divine attributes, and let us guide all humanity to the path of salvation and prosperity. Let us associate with all peoples with the utmost truthfulness, trustworthiness, love and faithfulness. Let us be a remedy for every ill and a healing balm for every wound of heart and soul. Let us be kind to all humanity.  AB12275

Give sustenance to the destitute and sight to the blind. Become a refuge and shelter for the helpless and confidants to the deprived. Show kindness to both friend and stranger alike, and honor all humanity. Serve the human world and shower love upon all mankind. These are the attributes of the Baha'is and the characteristics of the spiritual ones.  AB05989

The friends of the All-Merciful must dedicate their time to serving humanity and spreading divine qualities. They must guide all people to love and fellowship, and lead all souls to truthfulness, purity, peace, harmony, reconciliation, faithfulness, integrity and friendship, so that the innate oneness of human nature may eliminate acquired estrangement.  AB11322

"Serve God? There is no one in this world who can serve God, because we are not able to see Him. He is above our human ken. In my mind the only way we can serve Him is to serve mankind he should not rest day or night but rather serve the government and nation, demonstrate the utmost truthfulness, honesty, trustworthiness, purity and nobility, be content with his salary however small it may be, and be free and sanctified from all defilement - so that it may become evident that the Baha'is are heavenly angels who have no desire except service to humanity, especially to their homeland  AB01562

And convey my message to Mr. Baker that your endeavors for the world of humanity and your service to human society are evident and acceptable before the Lord of Hosts. My hope is that you may succeed in serving in the realm of heavenly morals and the divine Kingdom. This is a tree that is fruit-bearing and will yield eternally. It is the cause of the spirit's persistence and the reason for eternal life.  AB02233

We hope that the friends of God and handmaidens of the Merciful will, in accordance with heavenly teachings, serve the unity of the human world, consider religion as the foundation of love and fellowship among humanity, and strive to reconcile religion and science. May they become a treasure of wealth for every poor one, a refuge and shelter for every seeker of protection, a spirit and delight for the destitute, and divine assistance for the helpless.  AB12140

No matter what lack of courtesy or what severe persecution or stern expressions of hate and unfathomable enmity you receive, you must have no excuse like the following: "So and so has spoken unkindly about me," "So and so has not done me justice,"--nay, rather you must have no excuse but live according to the Divine Teachings, whether humanity prove agreeable or disagreeable, whether humanity prove hateful or loving, whether it receives you or casts you out   AB00974

To cheer up and sympathise with those who are in sorrow and carry laughter and the sunbeams of happiness in the hearts of all the children of humanity. To the sick he must become a nurse. For the oppressed, he must be a shelter. To the extent of his ability he must assist and take care of the poor ones in the community. He must give a share and a portion to those who are deprived. He must be a balm of healing to every wounded one and a breath of spirit to every dead one.   ABU0956

My hope is that when each of you returns to your homeland or dwelling place, you will be a sign among the divine signs, a gift among heavenly gifts, that you will be the cause of the fellowship of hearts and the cause of unity and connection of souls, that you will serve human oneness, be servants to all humanity and lovers of all on earth, that you will know no stranger or acquaintance, count none as friend or foe, and conduct yourselves with utmost love and kindness toward all.  ABU0202

O friends of God! Serve humanity with utmost joy and radiance, and show forth love to all mankind. Look not upon any limitations and be not restricted by any bonds, for limitations and restrictions become dark veils preventing the manifestation of human perfections, while freedom causes the appearance of divine bounties. Find not a moment's rest, seek not a minute's respite, take not a breath's repose. Be turbulent like the sea and roar like the leviathan of the ocean of eternity.  AB00095

Be thou kind to all mankind. Try thy utmost to alleviate their burdens.   ABU2935

For their intention is for the public good and their aim is Service to humankind.   AB01883

The foundation of that spirit is the love of God; and its method, the love and service of mankind.  ABU1955

Concern yourselves with the things that benefit mankind, and not with your corrupt and selfish desires.  BH00005

Thou art spending thy days in service, and art yielding thy life for the sake of the deliverance of mankind   AB02891

"May you love all and serve all, because serving mankind is serving God. Everyone should be kind. Everyone should strive for unity and endeavor to serve mankind."  ABU1068

"Praise be to God, thy goal is to promote the well-being of humankind and to help the souls to overcome their faults. This good intention will produce laudable results."   AB04433

He forgets himself and lives in the flow of the love of the True One; he embraces all mankind with an ineffable tenderness, striving day and night to serve his fellowman.   AB04610

Any movement that is for the benefit of mankind should be joined by the Baha'is. If they are not asked to help, they should offer their services, especially in all kinds of charitable work.  ABU3263

Second, through deeds, i.e. living in accord with the good pleasure of the Lord; adorning our being with his heavenly attributes and trying to alleviate the suffering and misery of mankind.   ABU1797

Man is he who forgets his own interests for the sake of others. His own comfort he forfeits for the well-being of all. Nay, rather, his own life must he be willing to forfeit for the life of mankind.  ABU0042

It seems that the very convolutions and cells of their brains direct their powers in those channels of arts, industries and inventions which alleviate the sufferings of mankind and bring about better conditions.   ABU3195

The point is that helping mankind is among the greatest ordinances and most glorious commandments, especially toward the friends of God who, in both the physical and spiritual worlds, are members and parts of one another.  AB03000

Console the helpless and give shelter to the homeless. Enlighten the dejected and comfort those who have seen sorrow. Be the solace of every heart and the helper of every weak and incapable one. Be kind to humankind and show utmost grace and beneficence to every living being.  AB01651

To the orphans be ye kind fathers, and to the unfortunate a refuge and shelter. To the poor be a treasure of wealth, and to the sick a remedy and healing. Be a helper of every oppressed one, the protector of every destitute one, be ye ever mindful to serve any soul of mankind.  AB00309

Always occupy yourself with holy fragrances and guide people to that which leads to the exaltation and elevation of humankind and is among the most special virtues and characteristics of the faithful, so that you may become an educator of souls and a guide to every imperfect wanderer.   AB01717

O people of God! Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns; let your thoughts be fixed upon that which will rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and souls of men. This can best be achieved through pure and holy deeds, through a virtuous life and a goodly behaviour.  BH00238

Tell the friends that whenever I receive news that they are in harmony so that their hearts are overflowing with love for one another, that they are a comfort to one another, and that they have devoted their time to serving mankind without any exception, then my health improves more and more.  ABU2681

Therefore, give thanks to the Lord that you have no purpose save service to the unity of the human world, love for mankind, peace and tranquility and comfort for creation, harmony between hearts, connection between souls, kindness to all, and goodwill to all on earth, and seek no other desire.  AB01299

Let them at all times concern themselves with doing a kindly thing for one of their fellows, offering to someone love, consideration, thoughtful help. Let them see no one as their enemy, or as wishing them ill, but think of all humankind as their friends; regarding the alien as an intimate, the stranger as a companion, staying free of prejudice, drawing no lines.  AB00104

To do battle, as stated in the sacred verse, doth not, in this greatest of all dispensations, mean to go forth with sword and spear, with lance and piercing arrow -- but rather weaponed with pure intent, with righteous motives, with counsels helpful and effective, with godly attributes, with deeds pleasing to the Almighty, with the qualities of heaven. It signifieth education for all mankind, guidance for all men, the spreading far and wide of the sweet savours of the spirit, the promulgation of God's proofs, the setting forth of arguments conclusive and divine, the doing of charitable deeds.  AB00112


Guide the people.  AB02502

Happy are you who are engaged in serving the poor.   ABU3471

Strive thou to become a servant of the Word of Unity  AB10573

Deal with every one in such a manner as to make them joyful!   ABU1790

Helping the poor and orphans is service to the Kingdom of God  AB03182

so that every soul may become self-sacrificing for other souls  AB12289

Intoxicated With the wine of love of God and the service of man.   ABU1793

Never talk to God to a man with an empty stomach. Feed him first.   ABU3623



and try to alleviate the sorrows and sufferings of the people." A. B.: "Christ served God and his apostles served God. Their service was to humanity, which was a reflection of their service to God."  ABU1250

"The intention should be the prosperity of the world and the civilization of humanity."  AB12028

Your duty is to serve the world of humanity through every channel, through every means.  ABU2623


I supplicate God to enable thee to become a Baha'i by deed and serve of the world of humanity  AB12453

You must cling to those things which prove to be the cause of happiness for the world of man.  ABU3305

"spiritual progress, which will enable them to render a greater service to the world of humanity."  ABU2297

so that when they reach the age of maturity they may arise in the service of the world of humanity.  ABU3070

serve faithfully the world of humanity... become lovers of humanity from the depths of their hearts   ABU0985

those wise ones might become the cause of honor to the world of humanity and be loving to all mankind  AB03516

My hope is that thou mayest become a hero in this arena and a luminous lamp in the world of humankind.   AB03938

Beseech God that He may assist you in that which is the cause of illumination of the world of humanity.  ABU1988

Be kind and gentle with all the people of the world and serve and assist everyone with the utmost love.  AB08881

Become luminous candles in the assemblage of the world and stars in the firmament of nations and peoples.   AB07241

Confirm us in the service of the world of humanity. Make us the cause of good-fellowship between the hearts!  ABU2174

and the friends of the Merciful must strive with heart and soul in the development and prosperity of the world   AB06765

"At least engage ye in a deed of profit to the world of humanity that ye may partially compensate for that loss."   AB02185

Sacrifice thyself for the well-being of the people and be thou a kind comforter to all the inhabitants of the world.  AB09099

His aim is service to the world of humanity and the diffusion of the fragrances of God and the teachings of Baha'u'llah.  AB02275

You are a servant of God, not a servant of this world. A servant of God is he who gives some benefit to the world of man.   ABU1903

Truly this esteemed lady's purpose is service to the world of humanity, and certainly divine confirmations will reach her.   AB01248

He sacrificed his life and served the world of humanity. He showed kindness to all the friends and rendered worthy service.   AB01779

They strive day and night to render service to the divine world and become the cause of illumination to the world of humanity.  AB08653

The believers must be servants to the world of humanity. They must be kind to one another, nay sacrifice themselves for others.   ABU1817

Enable us to serve the world of humanity so that we may serve all Thy servants, love all Thy creation, and be kind to all humanity  AB05922

Through their deeds and lives they must demonstrate to the inhabitants of the world what mutual helpfulness and assistance means.   ABU0684

I desire naught in Thy Dominion save to better the condition of the world and improve the character of peoples of different nations  BH09810

Be assured that confirmations will reach thee and thou wilt become assisted in accomplishing a great service to the world of humanity.  AB08536

that with all your powers ye may arise to serve the Word of God, to chant the verses of God, to render service to the world of humanity   AB04850

"The point is that the Baha'is are servants of the human world and captivated by justice and wisdom, well-wishers of the world's leaders"  AB01217

Whosoever serves the world of humanity in this or any other way he is serving His Holiness Baha'u'llah. Your heavenly reward is with him.   ABU2495

As much as you can, help the weak and protect the poor... Serve and show love to the world of humanity and be the cause of human happiness.  AB00653

that thou mayest become, through thy servitude to His Most Glorious Beauty, the adornment of the world and the cause of tranquility to humankind  AB09847

They must become the cause of the adornment of the world and comfort of humanity...becoming manifestations of divine favor and the cause of comfort.   AB02220

Your aim is to render a service to the world of reality. Pure intention is the magnet of heavenly assistance and the means of attracting Great Power.  AB08890

and to have the intention of doing good to the world, and to be perfectly kind to each member of the human family, and serve in promoting Universal Peace.  ABU1319

"may be devoted to the service of all mankind, may give up your rest and comfort, so that ye may become the cause of the tranquillity of the world of creation"  AB05042

I hope that we shall all be confirmed to serve the world of humanity, because no service is greater today than promoting the oneness of mankind and international peace   ABU1661

Your letter was just now read aboard ship and brought joy, for praise be to God, the purpose is glorious and the intention is to render service to the world of humanity.  AB10173

Think of nothing day and night save the welfare of humanity, and desire naught but the betterment of the world of man. Arise to serve all humanity and to love all people.  AB05881

The ultimate aim and desire of their existence is to sacrifice all attributes for the sake of the life of the world and the revival of the peoples and tribes of the nations  AB06368

All the friends of God must strive for the reformation of the world. If outward means are cut off, they must hold fast to spiritual means through humility and supplication.   BH01080

In this world, the one who carries off the ball from the field is the one who renders service to the world of reality. Praise be to God, you have been enabled to achieve this.  AB09346

If they are poor, help them with money; if they are sad, comfort them; they are distraught, quiet them; till all the world shall see that you have in truth the universal love.  ABU0653

It is my hope that all of us may arise with the greatest power to serve this most important Cause (Universal Peace) and become the means of the welfare of the world of humanity.  ABU1057

You will be servants of God, who are dwelling near to Him, His divine helpers in the service, ministering to all Humanity. All Humanity! Every human being! never forget this!  ABU0281

Strive day and night that some good deed may proceed from you, and pray and beseech night and day that ye may be enabled to serve the world of humanity. This is the greatest gift.  AB03006

Thy letter was received and thy pure intentions became manifest, showing that thou hast no other aim than serving the Kingdom of God and having compassion for the world of humanity.  AB08040

One's sitting and rising, speech and conversation, social intercourse and communication should be based upon a firm foundation and be conducive to the glory of the world of humanity.  ABU2960

The people of God have appeared specifically for the reformation of the world and the education of its peoples. By the command of God, exalted be His glory, they have arisen to serve all   BH03800

Say: O people of God! Put away corruption and tyranny, and take hold of justice and equity. By My life! Ye were created for the reformation of the world and the education of its peoples.   BH00422

that they may be favored with the privilege of serving the world of humanity, that they may help to establish universal peace and lay the foundation of the oneness of the world of humanity  ABU1276

these souls have engaged in this company with trustworthiness, religiosity, and sincerity and with the utmost zeal, and their purpose is to serve the world of humanity and to attain blessings.  AB10212

We must serve the world of humanity in a befitting manner. We must be self-sacrificing. We must pray to God that He may assist us in the accomplishment of real services in His heavenly Vineyard.   ABU1709

We beseech God that He may aid him and others to serve the Cause and exalt the Word, and enable them to achieve that which will lead to the reformation of the world and the education of its peoples.  BH11540

Forget self and work for the whole race. Remember always that one is working for the world, not for a town or even for a country; because, as all are brethren, so every country is, as it were, one's own.   ABU1113

day and night has as his purpose the enlightenment of the world and the nurturing and education of the children of Adam, whose intention is as bright as the sun, whose service at the Sacred Threshold is clear and evident  AB09588

Today is the day of service, obedience, righteousness, and forbearance. Strive ye to drink from the ocean of awareness and attain unto that which shall cause the tranquility of the world and the salvation of the nations.   BH01714

Praise be to God that thou art assisted in the service of the world of humanity and art the manifestor of divine Confirmations; for the service in which thou art engaged is the magnet which attracts the heavenly assistance.  AB10575

If ye will follow earnestly the teachings of Baha'u'llah, ye shall indeed become the light of the world, the soul for the body of the world, the comfort and help for humanity, and the source of salvation for the whole universe.  ABU0665

Every single assured and firm believer will consider himself the servant of all the friends of God, nay rather the servant of the world of humanity. The Honor of man depends upon this. The Everlasting Glory of mankind lies in this!  ABU2061

The real enjoyment of the world of humanity consists in the fact that every individual may think of the wellbeing of others and sacrifice his own rest for the rest of his fellowman. Then and not until them will he be really happy.   ABU1566

Look not unto your own selves, neither confine your affairs to that which profiteth you alone. Rather, look upon the servants of the All-Merciful throughout creation and turn unto that which benefiteth the peoples of all the worlds.  BH09335

Man must render a worthy service to the world of humanity. He must render a worthier service to God. He must plant a tree which may produce fruits. He must lay a foundation which may remain unshakable throughout all the coming ages.  ABU1210

One must live in accord with the Exhortations and Advices of the Blessed Perfection, and behave with such deeds and actions as to become conducive to the illumination of the world, and the manifestation of mercifulness among nations.   AB03582

And among the greatest pillars of servitude is service to all peoples and nations. Therefore must the servants of that Threshold sacrifice themselves for all humanity and strive with heart and soul to render service to the world of man   AB03797

Make the spiritual assembly of Philadelphia the manifestor of invisible confirmations, and the dawning-place of the lights of the Merciful so that its members arise to serve the world of man and be benevolent to the children of humanity   AB06888

We are broken-winged birds, bestow upon us new wings so that we become the cause of peace and tranquillity for the world of creation, the well-wishers of every soul, that we may serve the world of humanity, and strive in the common interest   AB00863

Therefore, O weak bodily one, be an antidote for the world and a sweet healing remedy for the pain of the suffering. Be a wise physician for the hospital of the ignorant, and be a sugar-eating parrot in the sugar-garden of praise and prayer.   AB05841

Perhaps souls will be raised up who will become pure goodness in the human world and cause comfort and ease for the world. They must completely forget themselves, sacrifice their lives at every moment, and seek eternal glory in the heavenly world.  AB11828

In the midst of this concourse of the world's factions, the party of God has the desire to serve the world of humanity. God willing, they will efface these calamities by the power of the proof, the divine confirmations, and boundless determination.  AB00341

With all the wealth of the world at their feet they are yet mindful of God and humanity, they spend their acquired riches for the dispelling of the darkness of ignorance and employ their treasures for the alleviation of the misery of the children of God.  ABU0700

"Glory is not his who loveth his country, but glory is his who loveth the world." Behold now how His all-embracing mercy hath encompassed all. And in another instance He saith, exalted be His glory: "Blessed is he who ariseth for the service of all mankind."   BH00418

The helper and sustainer hath been and is goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. Therefore must the people of God hold fast unto that which hath been mentioned and engage, according to their capacity, in reforming the world and refining the souls of nations.  BH07244

O My loved ones! Ye are the world's spiritual physicians. It is incumbent upon you, through the power and might of God, to heal by the sovereign remedy of the Most Great Name the soul-sickness of the kindreds of the earth and clarify the vision of all mankind.  BH02503

"It is my hope that the material services of that honoured soul to the world of humanity will be joined with spiritual service to the Kingdom of God." "Proceed to Switzerland to engage in charitable service and become a loving mother to these orphaned children"  AB03998

They must have good intentions and consider themselves the servants of the world of humanity. They must endure hardship and seek comfort for others. If they succeed in attaining such an attitude, they will be confirmed, and divine assistance will surround them.   ABU0797

I supplicate God that thou mayest become a kind parent to orphaned children, quickening them with the fragrances of the Holy Spirit, so that they will attain the age of maturity as true servants of the world of humanity and as bright candles in the assemblage of mankind.  AB08817

"What I wish to say is that those who have attained the Kingdom of God will themselves become doctors. All the people of the world are patients, are ill. They are in great need of doctors, so that through the help of the doctors they may be cured of their spiritual diseases."  ABU1655

Assist the world of humanity as much as possible. Be the source of consolation to every sad one, assist every weak one, be helpful to every indigent one, care for every sick one, be the cause of glorification to every lowly one, and shelter those who are overshadowed by fear.   ABU1122

The world of humanity is filled with darkness; you are its radiant candles. It is very poor; you must be the treasury of the Kingdom. It is exceedingly debased; you must be the cause of its exaltation. It is bereft of divine graces; you must give it impetus and spiritual quickening.  ABU0158

"My aim is to render a service to the Reality and make an effort and exertion in the world of humanity. Praise be to God your intention is humanistic and your object is to serve mankind along the path of prosperity and progress. You have consecrated your life to this Glorious object."  AB03066

thy service to the world of humanity, during these days of terrible war, acceptable at the kingdom of God. Verily, thou hast magnificently engaged in service; hast given up thy rest and comfort in America and hast hastened to Europe so that thou mayest be of service to the world of humanity.   AB07536

What delightful service is this to the world of humanity! What fruitful exertion is this in the Universe of God! What noble striving is this in the path of the Kingdom! What heavenly privilege is this in the promulgation of Truth! What divine splendor in the illumination of the souls of mankind.  ABU0995

One must devote one's precious time to matters that will yield a result. One must render a service to the world of humanity and be the means through which the various peoples make progress and become united, rather than the cause of disordered affairs and the promoter of the interests of others.  ABU3727

Therefore, we who are the servants of His Threshold must exert our utmost power, devote our lives, offer them as a ransom if necessary, and give our time and all we have to this cause, until this light be spread all over the world and this brilliant star shines from the dawning place of humanity.  ABU0691

Great souls must and shall arise to reconstruct the affairs of the world in the New Spirit of Understanding. The world war has taught the need for personal, social, national and international readjustments and if the world is to become safe for humanity, we must change our old standards of living.  ABU0064

It is your duty to be exceedingly kind to every human being, and to wish him well; to work for the upliftment of society; to blow the breath of life into the dead; to act in accordance with the instructions of Baha'u'llah and walk His path -- until ye change the world of man into the world of God.  AB03158

become the cause of comfort to the world of creation and adorn it. This is conditional upon conducting yourselves among humanity according to the divine teachings, becoming well-wishers of kings and subjects alike, causing the life of the human world, and becoming centers of spiritual inspirations   AB11670

All of you must strive in this world-service, and in this path be ever ready to sacrifice your possessions, your wealth, even your lives, so that we may establish the fact that we are the lovers of the world of humanity, and it may become manifest that we have attained to the station of self-sacrifice.   ABU0116

He must become the center of divine inspirations and the pivot of the heaven of the bounties of human virtues. That is, he must become the source of good and the dispeller of harm, and show forth power and strength and high resolve and courage in the education and advancement and illumination and exaltation of the world of humanity.  AB07108

Your intention is to serve the world of humanity, your purpose is to obtain divine good-pleasure, and your ultimate hope is to enter the Kingdom of God. Exert yourself to the utmost of your capacity and strive with intense effort and high endeavor that you may become accomplished in diverse arts and that through learning you may benefit humanity at large.  AB05772

For the duties of the friends are these: they must engage themselves in diffusing the Lights of the Sun of Truth; arise to guide the inhabitants of the world; bestow life upon the dead; lead the erring ones to the apex of Guidance; sing the melody of the Kingdom; summon the souls to the Divine Goal of Truth and be occupied with the training of the world of humanity  AB10965

Now is the time that you live in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah; that is, become a lover of the world of humanity, count all mankind as your relatives and kin, and be kind to all the children of men. May you always strive, day and night, to gladden the heart of the sorrowful, to offer healing to the sick, to assist the poor, and to uplift the downtrodden.  AB12421

Thus with a heavenly power, divine strength, merciful fragrance, supreme light, and conscious attraction, may they arise to serve Thee, to perfume the East and the West with the fragrances of holiness, establish the universal peace, promulgate integrity and honesty, to adore the truth, become a means of life to the people of the world, a cause of comfort and rest to them  AB02478

I beseech God that thou mayest succeed in thine intent so that these inner motives might find outward expression. Good intentions are of two kinds in the world of creation. One kind is aimed at a specific goal, a particular group, and its scope is extremely narrow. The other kind is directed towards all created things. It is a goodwill that is extensive in range and absolute in nature.   AB04356

They must sacrifice their own comfort for the comfort of their friends and spend their own bounty on others. Indeed, they must conduct themselves thus in the world of creation - tasting poison while giving honey to others, bearing hardship so others may find ease, being content with poverty while seeking wealth for humanity, laying down their own lives that they may bestow eternal life.   AB05178

Rest assured thy name is registered in the Book of God, and it is hoped that thou mayest enter the Paradise of the Kingdom and find stability; to reach that which is the cause of the progress of the world of humanity in the world and in the Kingdom, and with perceiving eye, attentive ear, eloquent tongue and radiant face may serve in the Vineyard of God and spread the Divine Glad Tidings.  AB02417

This revered lady, Mrs. Rowan, is indeed doing the world of humanity a great and useful service, for she assists those who are blind and shows them the tenderest kindness. Because she is giving them an opportunity to be trained manually, and is educating them intellectually, she is in reality endowing them with real sight, -- that is, insight. What greater attainment than this could be desired?   ABU0307

Work ye for the Cause of Peace. Stand ye by the Lord of Peace. Draw up in line your panoplied regiments of Peace! Unfurl at the head of your indomitable phalanxes, the Flag of Peace! Fill the world with the cry of Peace! Let your watchword be the sweet anthem of Peace. Be ye the laborers in the construction of the Palace of Peace. Think of Peace, work for Peace and consecrate your lives to the cause of Peace.  ABU1639

It is incumbent upon thee, since thou hast attained the knowledge of God and His love, to sacrifice thy spirit and all thy conditions for the life of the world, bearing every difficulty for the comfort of the souls, sinking to the depth of the sea of ordeals for the sake of the love of faithfulness and burning with the fire of torture and regret like unto a lamp while the light is shining from thee unto the surroundings.  AB02144

How excellent, how honorable is man if he arises to fulfil his responsibilities; how wretched and contemptible, if he shuts his eyes to the welfare of society and wastes his precious life in pursuing his own selfish interests and personal advantages. Supreme happiness is man's, and he beholds the signs of God in the world and in the human soul, if he urges on the steed of high endeavor in the arena of civilization and justice.  AB00004

They have no other aim, no other intention save service to the world of humanity.... in this Cause there is no relationship sane the relationship of service and self-sacrifice. Today the field of the service in the Cause is open to all. Every one has a chance to try his mettles. I am encouraging all to arise and serve the Cause. I went out myself and called mankind to the Kingdom of Abha. Let every one do the same and God shall assist  ABU0485

This Wronged One turned to the reformation of the world by God's command, and was a mighty fortress for nation and state and a manifest power, and had and hath no purpose save the glory of the latter and the exaltation of the former. All bear witness that this Wronged One had no intention save to extinguish the fire of hatred, and this extinguishing is praiseworthy when accomplished through the divine Kawthar of counsel and the Salsabil of heavenly wisdom.   BH01195

They must think only of drawing near to God, arising to serve His good-pleasure, and becoming the cause of comfort, ease, joy and gladness to the world of humanity. Today the world of humanity is in need of the improvement of character, education through the divine breaths, and the establishment of the foundation of love, truthfulness, peace, reconciliation, reality, uprightness and fellowship among all members of humankind. We must serve this vital cause.   AB00288

Therefore, O wise physician, if you seek complete proficiency and comprehensive wisdom, combine both forms of healing and soar with these two wings - that is, be a physician of bodies and a healer of hearts and a doctor of souls. Be an effective remedy for the sick body of the world and a beneficial medicine for humanity's weak constitution. Become the supreme antidote to the poison of ignorance and heedlessness, and the honored remedy for the venom of veiling and ill conduct.  AB00390

Be a refuge and shelter to every oppressed one, a helper and protector to every conquered one. Be a skilled physician to every sick one and an effective remedy to every wounded one. Be a sure shelter to every fearful one and a cause of comfort and tranquility to every distressed one. Make every sorrowful one joyous and every weeping one laugh. Be refreshing water to every thirsty one and heavenly food to every hungry one. Be a cause of glory to every lowly one and a cause of wealth to every poor one.   AB00861

"They must concentrate their thoughts day and night on helping the fallen, making fresh and verdant the withered one, bringing the dead to life, healing the sick, nursing the ill, becoming a refuge and shelter for the homeless, placing a salve on wounds, becoming a remedy for the afflicted, becoming a kind father to an orphan, becoming a helper and assistant to a captive, becoming a helper and responder to a poor one, bestowing melody on the melody-less, clothing the naked, giving drink to the thirsty."  AB01513

As is clear to the discerning, the writer has for this reason felt it necessary to put down, for the sake of God alone and as a tribute to this high endeavor, a brief statement on certain urgent questions. To demonstrate that His one purpose is to promote the general welfare, He has withheld His name. Since He believes that guidance toward righteousness is in itself a righteous act, He offers these few words of counsel to His country's sons, words spoken for God's sake alone and in the spirit of a faithful friend.  AB00004

Let us be ready to give our lives, our fortunes, positions, achievements, in order that a new state of existence may be diffused throughout the earth. There are fellow-beings who are weaker than we are, let us strengthen them; there are those who are more ignorant, we must teach them; some are as children, help them to develop; many are asleep, awaken them; others are ill, heal them; never despise them. Be kinder to them than to the stronger ones. One must always be kinder to the weak and ill and to the children. Never seek to humiliate your brother.   ABU1348

Now that God has granted humans such power and capacity to violate the natural world, it would be a pity to use this power except for good purposes. It would be a pity to employ it in destroying human foundations. It would be a pity to waste this gift on harmful matters. It would be a pity to apply it to hatred and enmity. It would be a pity to expend it on oppression and transgression. This power should be devoted to reviving souls, spent for the general good, and employed for peace and reconciliation. It should be confined to developing the world, comforting souls, and fostering love and affection among humanity.   ABU0439

Third: Service to the oneness of the world of humanity; so that each student may consciously realize that he is a brother to all mankind, irrespective of religion or race. The thoughts of universal Peace must be instilled in the minds of all the scholars, - in order that they may become the armies of Peace, the real servants of the body politic - the world. God is the Father of all. Mankind are His children. This globe is one home. Nations are the members of one family. The mothers in their homes, the teachers in the schools, the Professors in the colleges, the Presidents in the Universities, must instruct these ideals to the young from the cradle up to the age of manhood.  ABU1650

Glory be to God! Strangers from Berlin and England become intimate friends while acquaintances act as strangers, even though it has become evident and clear to all Iranians, near and far, Turk and Tajik, leaving no room for doubt or uncertainty, that these oppressed ones, despite the utmost oppression and enmity of others, sacrifice their lives for the welfare of Iran and Iranians. Before the sword and dagger of the oppressors, they are a balm for every wound and the greatest antidote for every ailment. Though they drink the cup of poison, they offer the goblet of honey; they accept the sting and give angelic counsel in return. They close their eyes to personal comfort and peace of mind, striving for the happiness of all.   AB00040

The light of truth is shining everywhere; endeavour that the eyes may be opened to behold its signs and splendour. O how pitiful were the children of men to deprive themselves of God's boundless grace in this most holy age, this illumined century! Wherefore, offer up thy life as a sacrifice unto the Cause of humanity, that, through thee, the poor may obtain their share of heavenly Treasure, the sick may find their way to the divine Physician, the helpless may be strengthened with the power of the Kingdom, the orphan may find his heavenly Father, the faint may be cheered, the disconsolate may be comforted through the bounty of the All-merciful, the sore-athirst may attain unto the fountain of Life and they that are in fear obtain the shelter of peace and calm  AB01535

Work for the sake of God and for the improvement of humanity without any expectation of praise and reward.   ABU0224

The beloved ones of God must be educators of humanity, inviting all mankind to attraction and enkindlement.  ABU1735

Peace and light and radiance be upon thee and upon thy father who arose to serve humanity in the early days   BH06627

Everyone should have some trade, or art or profession, be he rich or poor, and with this he must serve humanity.   ABU2418

If they accept office, their motive is to render service to the whole of humanity, not to seek their own self-interest   AB04324

I pray that ye may be confirmed in service to the world of humanity and that ye will be humble servants to all mankind.   AB04333

Become a friend and loving companion to all humanity and a guide for the spiritually-minded among the materially-minded.  AB01491

May they consider themselves servants of humanity and regard themselves as self-sacrificing for both stranger and friend.  AB12325

the way of the Prophets and their teachings is that humans must be healthy and occupied in order to be able to serve humanity.  ABU0481

The purpose is that you should seek with heart and soul the comfort and ease of all people, and the joy and delight of humanity.  AB09532

One must serve all humanity and spread essential unity. One must become the mercy of the Lord and the bounty of the All-Glorious.  AB03332

Therefore one must strive with all one's soul so that the rays of happiness may illuminate and enlighten the horizons of humanity.   AB00571

and shall serve the oneness of the world of humanity, and shall bring together other souls under the shade of the pavilion of the Kingdom   AB02505

The love of humanity is a glittering generality without social service; Social service is a mere catch-word without sacrifice and severance   ABU3209

Blessed is he who has risen, detached from vain imaginings and arisen to serve humanity - he is indeed of the people of this glorious horizon.   BH07152

Man must become the means of the wellbeing and prosperity of the commonwealth of humanity. Man must become the spring of the signs of guidance.  ABU2553

Be as sight unto the temple of man and as the tongue unto humanity. Thus hast thou been commanded from before the All-Merciful in a noble Tablet   BH05958

humanity's duty is service to the human world and servitude at the divine threshold. It is detachment and remembrance. It is a state of severance.   ABU2333

You too must raise a wondrous melody in the assemblage of humanity, that you may become the chief musician among the birds of the garden of holiness  AB09989

Be a well-wisher of humanity and a servant of mankind. Thus will the power of the Kingdom sustain thee and the paths of revelation be opened unto thee.  AB09722




We must strive until mankind achieves everlasting felicity.  ABU1663

become the cause of illumination of the world and its peoples   AB06930

Blessed is he who hath cast tyranny behind him, holding fast to My manifest justice, and blessed is he who hath cast oppression behind him, holding fast to fairness - he is of those brought nigh. And joy be to him who hath shattered the idols of corruption and shortened matters to the reformation of the world and what lieth therein - he is of those who have aided God's Cause, the Mighty, the All-Praised.  BH04809

We have no purpose save the welfare of the world and the betterment of nations  BHU0015

The Baha'i teachings reveal the means of both material and spiritual progress.  ABU3409


You too, God willing, after arriving and attaining His presence and meeting Him, shall become occupied with that which will lead to the reformation of the world and the refinement of the nations.  BH06285

May their intention be the reformation of the world and the tranquility of all peoples.   BH01318

Address yourselves to the promotion of the well-being and tranquillity of the children of men.   BH06328

if they receive the education of the true Educator, they will turn to the reformation of the world.  BH07562

"The Wronged One desireth naught save the salvation of the world and the exaltation of the nations"   BH05802

Make thou also an effort so that the world of humanity may attain to the highest summit of perfection  ABU1561

Blessed is the soul whom the clamor of the world hath not prevented from the Dayspring of light and the Dawning-place of revelation, who hath rent asunder the veils of idle fancies and hath arisen with complete steadfastness to reform the world.   BH07981

Before all faces, without any screen or veil, He spoke that which would reform the world and refine the nations.   BH06556

If a person desires to work for the progress of the world of humanity he must turn his face to the Kingdom of Abha.  ABU3269

That which flows from the Divine Pen aims at the preservation of the world and the attainment of the Most Great Station.  BH07046

Baha has had and has no purpose except to purify the world from matters that have been the cause of harm, distress and despair.  BH10229

You must act according to the divine counsels, for these counsels are the remedy for every ailment. Apply this remedy. Be mindful of God. Discuss divine matters. Do not become immersed in material affairs. The purpose of faith is the purification of souls and the result of recognition is the refinement of hearts. The foundation of God's Cause rests upon love and the unity of the human world, and it is the means for removing moral corruptions and material harms. Through the power of faith, humans can be saved from these harms and promote love and affection between hearts, spread the signs of unity and oneness, disseminate universal brotherhood, and become servants of humankind. Therefore you must interact with all peoples with utmost truthfulness and sincerity, and remember followers of every religion with honor and respect. Look to the foundation of divine religions, which is one reality, and the principles of the Manifestations of Truth, which are one principle - not the branches that pertained to the requirements of times and ages, nor the traditions that have caused difference and conflict among people - so that you may raise the banner of peace and harmony and become the sign of the Most Great Name among the peoples of the world. ABU1826

This Wronged One hath ever been and is occupied, night and day, with the reformation of the world and the reconciliation of hearts.   BH09710

The King of Eternity hath come for the betterment of the world.  BH04228

We beseech God to assist him in that which will cause the eradication of corruption and establishment of the reformation of the world.   BH03065

Therefore, ye must also be thinking of everyone, so that mankind may be educated, character moderated and this world may turn into a Garden of Eden.  AB01704

Until now, whatsoever hath been revealed from the Most Exalted Pen for the reformation of the world and the removal of corruption hath not been accepted  BH04262

God willing, may he be adorned with the ornament of wisdom and utterance and be occupied with the reformation of the world and the refinement of the nations  BH11190


He hath appeared for the reformation of the world - to this beareth witness the Most Great Name Who hath seated Himself upon the throne with manifest sovereignty.   BH05096

that faction hath abandoned corruption and contention, and hath laid hold on that which conduceth to the reformation of the world and the education of the souls of nations.   BH04418


Well is it with that soul who in this Most Great Day hath attained unto the good-pleasure of God and from whom hath appeared that which would cause the reformation of the world.   BH04362

Rather, all discussions should be about general and specific interests, improving conditions, perfecting character, education of children, and protection of all in every respect.  AB01526


The Beauty of the Most Glorious has guided and directed the world to righteousness and prosperity, so that the root of corruption may be severed and universal tranquility may be attained  AB10388

By God! He hath come for the reformation of the world and the purification of all peoples through this water which hath flowed from His Most Exalted Pen in this mighty, impregnable station.  BH11874

Beseech God that He may aid His servants, that it may become clear and evident to all that the people of Baha have desired and will continue to desire naught save the betterment of the world.  BH00470

He accepted all persecutions and hardships; and chose us for the illumination of the world of humanity, for the moral and religious education of the races, for the spiritual awakening of the people.   ABU0935

the people of Baha had not and have not any aim save the prosperity and reformation of the world and the purifying of the nations.  BH11358

We must now highly resolve to arise and lay hold of all those instrumentalities that promote the peace and well-being and happiness, the knowledge, culture and industry, the dignity, value and station, of the entire human race.  AB00004


He has had and has no purpose except the reformation of the world and all that is therein, that perchance the world-consuming sun of ignorant fanaticism may be extinguished  BH03486

As long as life is in this body one must exert himself and put forth an effort, so that he may lay a foundation and build a structure that will stand through the onward rolling of centuries and cycles, and whose pillars neither the hands of posterity nor the future generations will be able to destroy.   AB03582

That which is conducive to the regeneration of the world and the salvation of the peoples and kindreds of the earth hath been sent down from the heaven of the utterance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. Give ye a hearing ear to the counsels of the Pen of Glory. Better is this for you than all that is on the earth.  BH00003

that you will study such disciplines as will redound to the rehabilitation of that country, such that you will, upon your return there, become the very means of its revival, and the instrument through which the Cause of God is spread; that you will resolve to rectify the character of all humankind, and promote holiness and sanctity  ABU3712

This world is being ruined by others, I desire that the believers of God be the builders of the diamond edifice of humanity. The havoc wrought by the heartless destroyers must not dampen their zeal nor stop them from construction. The building spirit of the Baha'is must be as great and as irrefragable as the destroying determination of their antagonists.  ABU0389

The wise ones of other lands acknowledge that today the cause of the success and prosperity of the human world are the teachings of the Blessed Beauty, and except through this supreme remedy, there can be no health and well-being from this deadly poison that has affected the life of the world. AB00633

Man has been and continues to be among the greatest signs of God, and has come from the realm of non-existence into the court of existence for the knowledge and betterment of the world. Should the leaders of government and nation manifest spiritual virtues, goodly deeds, and kindly words, the lights of justice will encompass all the earth, and all will dwell in perfect tranquility within the pavilion of security and peace. The foundation of the security and welfare of nations rests upon two pillars: reward and punishment. Every sovereign must implement these two principles; indeed it is essential.   BH00920

Reflect ye upon this wondrous and beauteous utterance which hath flowed from the Supreme Pen in divers places: "Glory is not for him who loveth his country, but for him who loveth the world." Man hath not been created for sedition and corruption, for contention and strife. Nay, verily, he hath been created for a mighty purpose! Were these stations to be expounded in detail, tablets would not suffice for their elucidation. Know ye your stations, your conditions, and your ranks before God, your Creator and Fashioner, your Sustainer and Beloved, Who answereth your call.   BH00323
