
At first I had not noticed that, behind the tall, stately man, his eldest son, Shoghi Effendi, had entered the room and greeted his venerable Grandfather with the oriental kiss on the hand. I had already seen the child briefly several times. I had been informed recently by Bahiyyih Khanum that this young boy of perhaps 12 years, the oldest direct male descendant of this family of prophets, was destined to be the eventual successor and authorized representative (vazir) of the Master. While 'Abbas Effendi conferred in the Persian language with Abu-Shoghi who was standing in front of Him, the grandson remained in a respectful attitude near the door, after also having greeted us politely and having given his great-aunt the oriental hand-kiss. In the meantime several other Persian Effendis (a group of pilgrims who were about to cross to 'Akka) had entered the room, there was greeting and leave-taking for about a quarter of an hour, coming and going. Bahiyyih Khanum and I had retired to the seat in the window on the right, and we continued our conversation in Turkish in low voices. While doing so I did not take my glance off the very youthful grandson of 'Abbas Effendi. He was in European summer clothes, with short trousers but very long stockings reaching above the knees, and with a short jacket. From his size and build one would have thought him thirteen, even fourteen years old rather than eleven or twelve. In the still childish face I immediately noticed the dark, prematurely adult, even melancholy eyes. The boy remained in his respectful and waiting attitude and position without moving. When his father and his companion had taken leave of the Master, his father whispered something to him on going out, whereupon the boy, slowly and sedately like an adult, approached his Grandfather, waited for Him to address him, then replied modestly in Persian and was dismissed smilingly, not without having been permitted to kiss the hand respectfully. I noticed how the boy walked backwards when leaving and did not remove his dark, true-hearted eyes from the blue, magical glances of his Grandfather for a moment.  'Abbas Effendi got up and came across to us; we immediately got up, but the Master asked us to sit down again and Himself sat down in an informal manner on a Persian stool next to us, or rather to the side of us. As usual we silently waited for Him to address us, which He soon did: "Well, my daughter", the Master commenced, "how do you like Shoghi Effendi, my future Elisha?" (Old Testament, 2 Kings, 2nd chapter, verse 13). "Master, if I may speak frankly, then I have to say that in his boyish face are the dark eyes of a sufferer, of one who will suffer a lot!" Thoughtfully the Master looked beyond us into a far distance, only after a considerable time did His glance come back to us, and He said: "My grandson does not have the eyes of a pioneer, of a fighter, of a victor, but in his eyes, in his glances there is an abyss (=depth) of fidelity, endurance and conscientiousness. And do you know, my daughter, why he particularly has been appointed to the difficult inheritance of my Vazir (Minister, Bearer of official business)?" Without waiting for my answer, looking more at His dear sister than at me, as if He had forgotten my presence, He continued: "Baha'u'llah, the Great Perfection - blessed be His Words - in the past, present and forever - had appointed this lowly servant as His Successor, not because I was the first-born, but because His inner eye had earlier discerned the Seal of God on my brow.  Before His ascension into eternal light the blessed Manifestation exhorted me that I also - without regard for the right of primogeniture or age - should look among my sons and grandsons for him whom God would mark for His office. My sons sank into eternity [died] at a tender age; among my kindred and lineage only little Shoghi carries the shadow of a great calling in the depths of his eyes." Again a long pause followed, then the Master turned to me again and said: "At the moment the British Commonwealth is the greatest empire and is still in the ascendant, its language is a world language. My future 'Vazir' will receive the education for his hard office in England itself, after he has been given a grounding in the oriental languages and in the wisdom of the Orient - here in Palestine." After this I dared raise the objection: "Will not a western education, the English training, change his nature, fetter his lively spirit with rigid, intellectual bonds, stifle his oriental irrationality and intuition with dogma, conventionality, so that he will no longer be a servant of the All-Highest, but a slave of expediency, of western opportunism and of shallow triteness?" Long pause! - Then 'Abbas Effendi - 'Abdu'l-Baha rose and said in a firm voice in a solemn tone: "I am not giving my Elisha to the British to educate, I dedicate and give him to the All-Highest. God's eyes will keep watch over my child in Oxford also. - Insha'allah." ABU1454

After My return to God, the Lord, for "all springs from God and all returns to God", the blessed Master of the Mystery of God (Aqa, Sirrullah, 'Abbas Effendi, 'Abdu'l-Baha) will take on and continue the guardianship of the souls, and when the day dawns when also this Most Great Branch on the Tree of Sinai ('Abdu'l-Baha - Tree of Sinai=Baha'u'llah) will have entered into the depths of the Primal Will (God), He, the one blessed many times ('Abdu'l-Baha), will have decided beforehand - in a last Tablet (alva? = testamentary Tablet) - who, from among the members of the Baytu'l-'Adl should take on the guardianship of the souls.  ABU0375

After the passing away of this wronged one, it is incumbent upon the Aghsan (Branches), the Afnan (Twigs) of the Sacred Lote-Tree, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause of God and the loved ones of the Abha Beauty to turn unto Shoghi Effendi--the youthful branch branched from the two hallowed and sacred Lote-Trees and the fruit grown from the union of the two offshoots of the Tree of Holiness,--as he is the sign of God, the chosen branch, the Guardian of the Cause of God, he unto whom all the Aghsan, the Afnan, the Hands of the Cause of God and His loved ones must turn. He is the expounder of the words of God and after him will succeed the first-born of his lineal descendents. The sacred and youthful branch, the Guardian of the Cause of God, as well as the Universal House of Justice, to be universally elected and established, are both under the care and protection of the Abha Beauty, under the shelter and unerring guidance of the Exalted One (may my life be offered up for them both). Whatsoever they decide is of God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth them, hath not obeyed God; whoso rebelleth against him and against them hath rebelled against God; whoso opposeth him hath opposed God; whoso contendeth with them hath contended with God; whoso disputeth with him hath disputed with God; whoso denieth him hath denied God; whoso disbelieveth in him hath disbelieved in God; whoso deviateth, separateth himself and turneth aside from him hath in truth deviated, separated himself and turned aside from God. May the wrath, the fierce indignation, the vengeance of God rest upon him! The mighty stronghold shall remain impregnable and safe through obedience to him who is the Guardian of the Cause of God. It is incumbent upon the members of the House of Justice, upon all the Aghsan, the Afnan, the Hands of the Cause of God to show their obedience, submissiveness and subordination unto the Guardian of the Cause of God, to turn unto him and be lowly before him. He that opposeth him hath opposed the True One, will make a breach in the Cause of God, will subvert His Word and will become a manifestation of the Center of Sedition. Beware, beware, lest the days after the ascension (of Baha'u'llah) be repeated when the Center of Sedition waxed haughty and rebellious and with Divine Unity for his excuse deprived himself and perturbed and poisoned others. No doubt every vainglorious one that purposeth dissension and discord will not openly declare his evil purposes, nay rather, even as impure gold, will he seize upon divers measures and various pretexts that he may separate the gathering of the people of Baha. My object is to show that the Hands of the Cause of God must be ever watchful and so soon as they find anyone beginning to oppose and protest against the Guardian of the Cause of God, cast him out from the congregation of the people of Baha and in no wise accept any excuse from him. How often hath grievous error been disguised in the garb of truth, that it might sow the seeds of doubt in the hearts of men! O ye beloved of the Lord! It is incumbent upon the Guardian of the Cause of God to appoint in his own life-time him that shall become his successor, that differences may not arise after his passing. He that is appointed must manifest in himself detachment from all worldly things, must be the essence of purity, must show in himself the fear of God, knowledge, wisdom and learning. Thus, should the first-born of the Guardian of the Cause of God not manifest in himself the truth of the words:--"The child is the secret essence of its sire," that is, should he not inherit of the spiritual within him (the Guardian of the Cause of God) and his glorious lineage not be matched with a goodly character, then must he, (the Guardian of the Cause of God) choose another branch to succeed him.  AB00001

O ye the faithful loved ones of 'Abdu'l-Baha! It is incumbent upon you to take the greatest care of Shoghi Effendi, the twig that hath branched from and the fruit given forth by the two hallowed and Divine Lote-Trees, that no dust of despondency and sorrow may stain his radiant nature, that day by day he may wax greater in happiness, in joy and spirituality, and may grow to become even as a fruitful tree. For he is, after 'Abdu'l-Baha, the Guardian of the Cause of God, the Afnan, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause and the beloved of the Lord must obey him and turn unto him. He that obeyeth him not, hath not obeyed God; he that turneth away from him, hath turned away from God and he that denieth him, hath denied the True One. Beware lest anyone falsely interpret these words, and like unto them that have broken the Covenant after the Day of Ascension (of Baha'u'llah) advance a pretext, raise the standard of revolt, wax stubborn and open wide the door of false interpretation. To none is given the right to put forth his own opinion or express his particular conviction. All must seek guidance and turn unto the Center of the Cause and the House of Justice. And he that turneth unto whatsoever else is indeed in grievous error.  AB00001

