
This Sublime Shrine has remained unbuilt ... God willing, it will be accomplished. We have carried its construction to this stage.  AB11578

This is the glorious resting place, this is the purified tomb, this is the luminous sepulcher   AB01131

while we are on Mount Carmel in such pleasant weather, in such a sacred place, at such a time.   ABU2157

We think of thee at all times, here on the slopes of this sacred, holy and blessed Mount Carmel  AB11253

In these days attendance at the Holy Shrine is not possible, therefore defer it to another time.  AB03202

the Garden of Paradise, which was for several years blessed by the presence of the Blessed Beauty  AB09449

endowed three thousand square cubits of land on Mount Carmel as a dedication to the Sacred Shrine   AB06073

Now too he hath taken up residence near the Holy Shrine and Sacred Tomb, dwelling at the Threshold  AB03749

pilgrimage to the Holy Shrine of the Exalted One and circumambulation of the Sacred Resting Place   ABU2843

God willing some day may come when ye may have the attainment of visiting the Carmel of Palestine.   AB04211

O Land of Ta! Even now, through God's bounty, thou art the dwelling-place and abode of His loved ones.   BH03564

"the Most Exalted Shrine"..."being in the vicinity of the Most Great Mercy and the Most Exalted Shrine"  AB06448

since that land is the region and homeland of the Ancient Beauty, it is therefore of utmost importance   AB03876

We must try to return very soon to Haifa. There upon the mountain, all alone, pray and supplicate with God.   ABU3288

thou hast been honored to stand in the presence of a Spot which is the meeting-place of angels from on high   AB07103

arrived at the Holy Shrine and were honored to circumambulate the Center of Light...thou art in the Holy Land  AB11766

to prostrate yourself at the Sacred Threshold, to press your forehead to the perfumed dust of the Holy Court   AB07483

make your shrine adorned with the ornament of glory and your resting place illumined with the light of beauty   AB04956

The view from the Pilgrims Home is very attractive, especially that it faces the Blessed Tomb of Baha'u'llah.   ABU1109

he carried you to the divine homeland, the blessed spot near the sacred valley of the right side of Mount Sinai   AB06961

visit the resting places of the martyrs in God's path and be present at the burial sites of those blessed souls   AB01789

For verily, she protects the Blessed Radiant Spot and defends the Valley of Sinai and Yathrib and the open lands.  AB07851

You made the dust of the blessed threshold the kohl of your eyes and watered and irrigated the illumined garden.   AB06190

this Spot which God hath made the object of circumambulation for the Concourse on High and the angels brought nigh   BH07239

From the longing in the heart of that spiritual friend, tears flowed in the Holy Shrine and hearts were set aflame.  AB04711

overnight stays in the Holy House are not permitted under any circumstances. The Holy House must remain unoccupied.   AB03027

Shiraz is the dwelling place of the Self-Sufficing Lord. It must become the dawning-place of the lights of mysteries   AB06560

Your longing to visit the Sacred Soil is expressed and evident and your presence will be the source of pleasure to me.  AB08715

Regarding the purchase of land around the Holy Shrine, in these days the government has prohibited buying and selling   AB01684

the construction of the lower level of the Holy Shrine has been completed with utmost solidity, elegance and refinement  AB01752

so that you may become close to the threshold in the two blessed Shrines and draw near to the Court of the Divine Unity  AB04486

He circumambulated the sanctuary of the holy ones and perfumed his face and hair with the dust of the Sacred Threshold   AB03502

Now praise be to God, the friends are dwelling and consorting in the finest spot of this earth, in the finest vista...   ABU2990

His honor Shah Khalilullah arrived at the luminous shrine and in utmost supplication and humility at the divine threshold  AB04450

For some time now you have been blessed to be in the vicinity of the Sacred Threshold and honored to kiss the Holy Ground  AB09384

blessed he that turneth unto thee, and visiteth thy grave...Through thee that land and its surroundings have been honored   BH03402

and circumambulated around the sanctuary and the sacred precincts and the place of consciousness and the Most Great Station  AB09898

He calleth thee from the precincts of the prison with an utterance sweeter than sugar and more luminous than the sun and moon  BH05620

Although news of the construction of the circumambulation place of the world, the Sacred House, brought much joy and delight   AB06025

Regarding the house which you had written about that is in the vicinity of the Most Great, Blessed, Revered and Purified House  AB10203

he reached the shore of the Blessed Spot. At the Sacred Threshold he engaged in the work and service of his respected father.   AB04909

treasurer of the House of God and the servant of the threshold of His Most Great Sanctuary...serve and honor that Sacred House  AB02299

At the place where the convent is now situated. It was Haifa, which means in the Phoenician language, the foot of the mountain.   ABU0408

I have sent the candelabrum you donated to the Sacred Shrine so that a sign from you may be preserved at that Blessed Threshold.  AB04028

You blessed your face and hair with the dust of that sacred threshold and illumined and brightened your outer and inner vision.   AB11898

In the Holy Shrine, visitation was performed on behalf of that handmaiden of God with the loved ones, and tea was served outside.  AB04487

perfumed thy nostrils with the holy fragrances of the Blessed Spot... watered the rose-garden and flower-bed of the Sacred Valley   AB06778

This Sublime Shrine has remained unbuilt ... God willing, it will be accomplished. We have carried its construction to this stage.  AB11578

Since they have attained the bounty of pilgrimage to the two Holy Thresholds - the Shrine of Baha'u'llah and the Most Exalted Shrine  AB09145

I hope at some spring season you will succeed to visit the Holy land and see that the plain of 'Akka is indeed a delectable paradise.  AB01730

The dust and earth of this exalted Threshold is like precious and potent collyrium for the eyes of the holy ones who circle round it.  AB09388

It is my hope that out of God's favour and grace thou dost keep safe and well, and dost visit the two Sacred Thresholds on my behalf.  AB11411

a vast pavilion was erected in an elevated location facing the Holy Shrine, and at the time of visitation the friends of God gathered   AB05626

on your behalf he circumambulated the illumined shrine, fell prostrate upon the dust, and beseeched abundant grace and mighty triumph.   AB07198

As for the pilgrim house, it has been built in the best location near the Most Exalted Shrine, but it needs furnishings and equipment.   AB05136

As to the matter of the cemetery, in truth it will deliver the helpless dead from the ravens and crows and save them from such indignity  AB12472

Send six pieces of carpet for the Holy Shrine of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Bab], along with one piece of one and a half cubits.   AB07274

Surely the Holy Land is the niche of light and the glass of the flame of Sinai. The Blessed Beauty unveiled His face in this sacred soil   AB07401

These are servants of Thine who live in Thy sanctified city, in the vicinity of Thy Holy Shrine - a Shrine whose gates are open unto all   AB03032

Prostration is confined to the Most Exalted Shrine [of the Bab], the Most Holy and Blessed Shrine [of Baha'u'llah] and the Blessed House.  ABU3272

Akkor is this same Akka that the Europeans call Acre. Akka acquired different names: first it was 'Avk, then Akko, then Akkeh, then Akka.   ABU2459

Praise be to God, you have attained the honor of visiting the shrine of the Supreme Concourse and have been blessed with this great bounty.  AB02598

On this Day none shall find refuge, nor shall any soul find rest save in that Spot which hath been mentioned in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH07201

My request is that on behalf of this servant, they recite this prayer in the Holy Shrine in a state of weeping and humility and supplication  AB05505

Attention must be directed to the Holy Shrine - that is the station which We have ordained. However, for now this should remain confidential.  AB08942

these places are revered and worthy of pilgrimage and blessing, for this water and clay bears traces of that heart and soul and points to it.   AB01402

Ye have visited the Sacred Shrine and have reached this sanctified spot and have passed the nights and days with the utmost joy and fragrance.   ABU1694

It is the radiant sanctuary and the valley of Tuwa and Mount Sinai. It is the Holy Land and the illumined desert, the sanctuary of the holy ones   AB02732

All of this land is Holy Land, and it bears traces of the footsteps of the Divine Prophets. Therefore, every grain of it is sacred and sanctified.   ABU2211

Every stone of that building, every stone of the road leading to it I have with infinite tears and at tremendous cost, raised and placed in position   ABU3553

Details regarding the Tablet revealed on Mount Carmel: After the arrival and descent of the Ancient Beauty, exalted be His glory, at that elevated spot  BH05706

You found the dust of the purified tomb to be fragrant musk and inhaled ambergris and perfume from the illumined sepulcher in the most exalted station   AB04881

Blessed are they that have attained the Sacred Threshold! Blessed are they that have made pilgrimage to the Spot circled round by the Concourse on High!  AB12014

"Now you are to enjoy yourselves upon this mountain of the Lord (Mt. Carmel) on which the Prophets of God used to dwell or often lingered while on earth"  ABU1657

You had cried out and lamented due to the intensity of your longing, and expressed your desire to circumambulate the two illumined shrines of the horizons   AB05846

Your attainment to this verdant Garden and this most exalted and sublime Threshold is a gift that causes holy realities in the world of creation to envy you.  AB08112

Regarding attendance at the Sacred Spot of Nur that you had written about - in these days there are multiple impediments, therefore postpone it to another time.   AB06759

The Blessed Beauty journeyed to the village of Yirkih three times. On the first visit, I walked at the side of Baha'u'llah's steed until the proximity of Abu-Sinan.  ABU2225

"The Land of ?a hath been the seat of the Throne and the dawningplace of the Desired Morn. It is the place of the Ukht [Sister] and where the friends of God repose."  BH02445

Had I been well assured, I would have settled down in one place and would never have departed from the Holy Land, nor quitted the surroundings of the Blessed Shrine.   ABU2431

The land of Syria hath been honored by the advent of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful. This is a land wherein was raised the call of the Prophets and Messengers  BH03400

the blessed spot of the sacred valley, the Valley of Ayman, the wilderness of Sinai and the Mount of Revelation to Moses which is mentioned in the verse of the Qur'an   AB07064

sacred remains of the Primal Point, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him, were laid to rest with utmost glory and beauty in the blessed casket at the Most Exalted Spot   AB03378

Praise be to GOD you who are believers of GOD have attained! You have crossed mountains, deserts, countries and seas, and now you are visiting this Sacred Spot with me.   ABU2442

He has rubbed his face in its pure soil and pressed his forehead against its fragrant and precious dust. He stands at the door in humility, submissiveness and supplication  AB04242

Thou hast attained the blessed Spot and stood in the presence of His Supreme Majesty and achieved the honor of circumambulating the gathering-place of the Concourse on High  AB10059

"We are gazing upon Mt. Carmel, where many kings and world conquerors had come, but now one did not think of them, but the simple Prophets and of Jesus and His Disciples."   ABU1577

This is the distance between the city of 'Akka and the Shrine of Baha'u'llah. I wish to practise walking, that I may be able to travel to the Shrine of Baha'u'llah on foot.  ABU3734

Just now, in the vicinity of the Holy Shrine, I have taken with my own hands the vase which you sent as a memento of my journey to America, and placed it in the Holy Shrine.  AB08979

In reality to bring the remains of the BAB from Persia and inter it in the unique building was the most difficult and at the same time the most triumphal work of the Cause.   ABU2782

This is the ground where all the prophets have trod. They dwelt here and gave the Glad tidings that a day will come when the tent of the Lord will be pitched upon this spot.  ABU2010

As for visiting the Holy Land, if all means of comfort and ease are available, you and any of your relatives may come. However, traveling with children involves much hardship.  AB06337

Praise be to God that you have come to this Divine Spot and have visited the Holy Threshold of Baha'u'llah and were privileged to visit the Blessed Tomb of His Holiness the Bab.  ABU0397

This wilderness is where Baha'u'llah has crossed. This is the place where the tent of the Blessed Beauty was pitched. Many of the Divine Teachings and Tablets were revealed here.  ABU2010

Miss Boylan said Abdul-Baha replied that he had fulfilled that prophecy by building the Tomb of the Bab. He said the Tomb of the Bab on Mount Carmel was the first Mashrekol-Azkar   ABU2556

Thou art he who directed his steps towards the Supreme Horizon, and who visited the Spot wherein the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken: "The Kingdom is God's, the Lord of the worlds!"   BH05559

I swear by the Most Great Name that the dust of the threshold of His Beauty is the most great repository of the realities of existence, for it is the dawning-place of manifestation   AB04582

Such a holy Visit depends however upon the condition of the heart. If the heart is illumined and radiant in one moment's visit the angels of Confirmation and assistance will descend.  ABU0837

Thus hath My Most Exalted Pen spoken in this spot which God hath made the point round which circle the denizens of Paradise and they who circle round the Throne at eventide and at dawn.   BH08590

You had inquired about the construction of the tomb of that trusted messenger...According to a previous letter, they have already repaired the pure tomb of that divine messenger in Shiraz.  AB09198

I address thee with all spiritual love and gladness from this my residence at the base of Mount Carmel, which is blessed through all ages by the prophets, as recorded in the ancient Books.  AB05900

The vines here in the garden are protected. The gardener puts the grapes into a liquid solution...In 'Akka there are worms that bore into the fruit trees. They came in the garden of Ridvan.  ABU1813

As they have attained the blessing of pilgrimage to the two Holy Thresholds--the Shrine of Baha'u'llah and the Most Exalted Shrine--you must show them the utmost consideration as is befitting.  AB09145

His honor, the illustrious Khalil, Aqa Mirza 'Ali, arrived at the Holy Land, the Blessed Spot, and attained the honor of visiting the center of the infinite circle, that is, the Holy Shrine.  AB06980

arrived at the luminous shrine in the white land in the utmost spirit and fragrance, and sat like dust in complete humility and submissiveness at the holy threshold around the blessed shrine  AB07211

Praise be to God that you reached the Most Holy Court of the blessed shrine and Supreme Spot, the Most Exalted Station, and with perfect love and devotion visited the luminous resting place.   AB06786

Guard and watch over that sacred sepulcher and blessed resting place. For a hundred thousand lamps circle round that Light, and a hundred thousand kings are servants at that exalted threshold.  AB08046

He transferred those two purified bodies to another purified and perfumed resting place, and laid them beneath the earth to be two shining traces, two witnesses to martyrdom in the path of God  AB01998

For some time he dwelt near the luminous Shrine, that verdant garden, the gathering-place of the Concourse on High, circumambulating the illumined resting-place and tending the sacred gardens.  AB01408

"What a beautiful gathering! In all the places I went I did not see such a beautiful, live meeting. Pray, in my behalf, at this blessed spot, for all the friends and ask confirmation for them."  ABU1156

"For the present, it is not permitted to any one to come to the Holy Land, for the summer is near, and in these regions the heat becomes very severe in that season, and there are many diseases."  AB02196

"In past ages, every night from this Mount Carmel the voices of the invocations of the saints ascended to the Presence of the Almighty. Yonder plain has also been the habitation of many prophets."  ABU0814

thou hast traversed this far distance until thou didst arrive at the Center of Light, didst touch thy forehead to the ground, and didst perfume thy sense and spirit with the fragrant and holy dust  AB12566

You had inquired about building the resting place of that trusted messenger...According to a previous letter, they have already repaired the pure resting place of that divine messenger from Shiraz  AB09198

Know ye the station of that land, the mention of which hath flowed from the Pen of God time and again, again and again. All this is from His favor unto you, as attesteth every discerning believer.   BH04662

Look at the Great and Glorious favors of the Blessed Perfection in bringing together these people from different parts of the world, to sit them down at a table in Haifa at the foot of Mount Carmel.  ABU2644

Blessed are they who circumambulate the House and visit Yathrib and Batha. By the life of our Beloved, the people of vision would not exchange a single pebble thereof for all the jewels of the world.   BH01146

Your pure-hearted brother crossed the sea and arrived at the blessed, luminous Shrine. He circumambulated the point round which circle the Concourse on High. He laid his head upon the Sacred Threshold   AB06416

However, in every country, the utmost respect must be shown to whatever resting-place of martyrs and those who did not suffer martyrdom, and visiting them will bring spirituality and light to the heart.  AB09288

Now the remains of the Bab are resting on its slope. His Holiness, the Blessed Beauty, has pitched His tent on various spots on this mountain. The tent of Baha'u'llah has been raised on this Holy ground.  ABU2076

the pictured spirit, the luminous form of His Holiness the Exalted One found its resting place with the utmost joy and gladness in the purified sepulcher on God's mountain, Mount Carmel, the sacred spot   AB12094

They inquired about the events of the night, and I submitted that a letter had arrived from Egypt last night, and I mentioned your exalted name, stating that you had requested to be remembered at His feet.  BH03953

you have reached the luminous shrine and sought blessing and benediction from the sacred threshold of the Blessed Beauty. You have found the spiritual circumambulation point and recognized the divine center   AB05041

The Covenant-breakers seized the flower gardens adjoining the Shrine of Baha'u'llah from us, but some of the friends and I would carry soil and water on our shoulders for that garden and tend to its beauty.   ABU1500

Mr. Mills and his wife came to the Holy Land; they associated with us for several days, attained the privilege of presenting themselves at the two Holy Thresholds, and returned with utmost joy and fragrance.  AB10990

Though separation from the Holy Sanctuary brings sorrow and deprivation, these lamentations and cries, these yearnings and longings of heart and soul are acceptable and desirable to the heart and conscience.   AB04191

When she arrived at the Holy Shrine and attained the honor of visiting the Sacred Threshold, she was always mindful of you and made mention of you. In the Holy Shrine she beseeched divine favors on your behalf  AB09178

thy father and mother both crossed seas and lands until they attained the honor of standing before the Most Exalted and Supreme Threshold and circumambulated the point around which circle the Concourse on High  AB09008

Since the day the Most Exalted Shrine was raised up and the eyes of all the faithful were illumined and the banner of the glory of God's Cause was unfurled, not one of these heedless souls came for pilgrimage.   AB01626

regarding what you wrote about the Most Great House, the point of circumambulation for the world (may my spirit be sacrificed for its dust) - this matter is very important, nay, the most important of all matters  AB01358

attempting through various schemes to seize this circumambulation place of the Supreme Concourse...All cried out that this is not a house - it is the Kaaba of the Baha'is and the sanctuary of the misguided ones.  AB01348

Thou didst go away to Haifa, supposedly for only three or four days. Now it becometh apparent that the spiritual power of the Shrine hath brought thee joy and radiance, and even as a magnet is holding thee fast.  AB09695

Abdu'l-'Aziz, son of Abdu'-Salam, hath related unto us that the Prophet -- may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon him -- hath said: Akka is a city in Syria to which God hath shown His special mercy.  BH00005

Praise be to God that thou hast traversed desert and wilderness until thou didst measure out the measure of the Covenant and didst attain unto a mighty victory, becoming successful in kissing the Sacred Threshold.  AB09091

For some time now Mr. Mirza Abdul-Ghani has attained the honor of kissing the threshold of the Holy Shrine and the Most Exalted Station, perfuming his nostrils with the fragrances of the two luminous sanctuaries.   AB03422

Truly thou art the mother of all the cities of the world and thou art blessed beyond the grasp of human imagination! Thy spiritual station is very great and thy fame shall reach to the uttermost parts of the earth!   ABU2025

The restoration of the blessed house is a most pressing duty which cannot suffer a moment's delay. The house must, however, preserve its original design. Nor should the slightest change or modification be permitted.  AB03533

Blessed is the soul that attains to visiting your grave! Blessed is the brow that is laid upon your tomb! Blessed is the foot that serves your sepulcher! Blessed is the one who lights the lamp at your resting place!   AB02852

Ardishir Khudadad traveled a long distance and crossed the sea until he reached the land of his desire and attained the honor of visiting the illumined threshold of Sinai, laying his head upon the Most Exalted Shrine.  AB08333

The Covenant-breakers had also taken the garden of the shrine from us, even though I and the friends had hauled the soil and planted flowers with our own hands...we bought this house just for the Blessed Beauty's room  ABU1263

Preserve with all your might the centrality of the slopes of Orang. The construction of a dam that is needed against the flood waters of the valley to protect the Holy House from danger is certainly beloved and desired   AB01597

thou hast traversed a great distance to arrive at the extended shade and praiseworthy station of the Threshold of the Worshipped One, and hast illumined thine eyes with beholding the mighty signs at that Sacred Threshold   AB07432

Dr. Zia and the handmaid of God Zeenat have resided in the Holy Land for a long period... Since they have attained the bounty of pilgrimage to the two Holy Thresholds - the Shrine of Baha'u'llah and the Most Exalted Shrine  AB09145

We have been and are occupied with their remembrance at all times around the Holy Shrine, so that its holy fragrances may perfume their nostrils and the fragrance of the Holy Shrine may make their souls fragrant with musk   AB03021

that place is well known and is a spiritual circumambulation point, for that shrine was once the shell containing the luminous, divine, heavenly pearl. Its renovation would bring joy, delight and happiness to 'Abdu'l-Baha.   AB11689

In this year, through the wondrous favors of God--glorified be His majesty--a number of Afnan turned toward and attained the presence of the Blessed Tree, and achieved that which was recorded in the divine Books and Scriptures.   BH10119

Regarding seeking fulfillment of needs at holy places - since these places are associated with God, they are therefore the noblest of spots. Certainly seeking fulfillment of needs at the noblest spots is not like other places.  AB00576

This is the blessed spot and holy land where all the Prophets offered prayers and opened their lips in glad-tidings, sometimes weeping and lamenting and raising cries of anguish at the oppression of the Beloved of all horizons  AB06218

Whosoever shall free the House from the Amalekites, verily for him shall be a great reward with God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. God shall soon free it through a command from His presence, even as He freed the Ark aforetime.   BH01107

Give thanks to God that thou hast been enabled to perfume thy face and hair with the dust of these two blessed Thresholds and hast attained, in complete devotion and attraction, the privilege of visiting these two blessed Spots.  AB08108

As for the Holy House, it must certainly be pure and sanctified. There should be a place nearby to serve as residence for the caretaker and gathering place for pilgrims, while the august House remains empty, unoccupied and sacred.  AB02453

Today I came down here. It was a pleasant walk. Praise be to God, that, through the favor and bounty of the Blessed Beauty, I reached the holy threshold. I had no other desire but to reach here. Many nights I thought of this wish.   ABU0274

"Regarding the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, you mentioned that Aqa 'Ali Muhammad Khan and Jinab-i-Muvaqqaru'd-Dawlih have purchased the birthplace of the Bab, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, and they are also selling an adjacent house."  AB00859

His honor Aqa Muhammad Isma'il arrived at the blessed shrine of "Glorified is He Who caused to journey" and illumined and perfumed his face and hair with the dust of the Threshold, the circumambulation point of the Concourse on High.  AB06391

This is the Blessed house, do you realise it is the Blessed House of Baha'u'llah. All that quarter in which the House is situated will be destroyed and will be transformed into wonderful Parks and gardens. It will become most heavenly.  ABU2752

Especially since thou hast attained to circumambulating the gathering-place of the Concourse on High and been honored to visit the Blessed Spot around which God hath sanctified and blessed - the Valley of Tuwa, the Wilderness of Sinai.  AB01865

The purpose of lighting lamps is not for the Shrine itself, but rather for the souls who enter, that they may be moved to remembrance thereby; otherwise the Shrine itself is sacred. The light of the Shrine is the remembrance within it.   ABU1847

You must certainly arrange by whatever means possible for some to enter occasionally and at least perform regular visitation, otherwise gradually the lack of visitation will become habitual and its supreme importance will fade from minds  AB01358

That house was the nest of the holy dove and adjacent to the birthplace of the Luminary of the Supreme Concourse, the Primal Point... Therefore that house is considered among the sacred spots and reverence for it is an obligatory matter.   AB00812

In the Holy Garden of the Sacred Threshold we have been and are engaged in remembrance and prayer for you. You have not been and will not be forgotten. A jug of water was carried on behalf of you and used to water the garden of the Holy Shrine.   AB07172

you have turned from the Sacred Mosque, the circumambulation point of spiritual souls, toward the Most Remote Mosque, the qiblih of the Concourse on High. You have illumined your brow with the manifest light at the sacred, perfumed and fragrant dust  AB04485

Now that at the foot of Mount Carmel I am engaged with utmost joy in service at the Holy Threshold and absorbed and occupied in raising the edifice of the circumambulation place of holy ones... As we are engaged in building the holy, purified shrine  AB01548

The Blessed Beauty repeatedly commanded the friends to acquire a most delightful and pure location on Mount Carmel in Haifa...which is extolled in all the books of the Prophets with clear glad tidings, we are engaged in constructing the Sacred Shrine  AB00864

His honor Aqa Mulla Muhammad-'Ali, upon him be the Glory of God, arrived at the Holy Land in utmost supplication and illumined his brow with the dust of the Divine Threshold, for that dust's influence in hearts and spirits is a ray of the manifest light.  AB04246

In the future there will be seven beautiful, terraced gardens from the base of the mountain up to the Holy Tomb. Those who have seen the sweeping, heavenly scene spread before their eyes from the Tomb of the Bab cannot forget it throughout all their lives.  ABU2258

Within that land are concealed and treasured the divine trusts. Say: Blessed, blessed art thou, O Land of Sad! What land can be likened unto thee? God hath made thee the repository of His names and attributes, next to the sacred and specially designated lands.   BH03085

God willing, you will go the day after tomorrow. I am planning arrangements whereby friends may be able to stay at Bahji for a few nights. At present that cannot be carried out owing to lack of bedding, etc., but we hope that in the future it will become possible.   ABU2499

You are my deputy in watering the Blessed Shrine. Every drop of that water is the water of life itself and the cause of life in the hearts of those who prostrate themselves. This servant is the caretaker of that sacred soil and the one who waters that blessed garden.  AB07749

Turn to the Holy Shrine and whatever you seek will be answered. This turning has no nearness or remoteness - one can turn from any spot or any clime, for the Sanctuary of the Supreme Concourse encompasses all created things and is raised up in the Most Exalted Station.  AB06592

"I spent last night in the vicinity of the Most Exalted Shrine, and through the blessing of that sacred place, the night was filled with the utmost joy and delight. The holy fragrances from that illumined sepulcher perfumed my nostrils, and my heart and soul were stirred."  AB00416

But these stones, in My Eyes, are greater than gold or silver the people will bring. And in that time the people will weep and cry, and will say: 'What a great time was that when Abul Kasim used to serve in this Garden!' And they will beg to be permitted to visit this Place.  BHU0014

O visitor to the sacred grave, give thanks to God that you have been honored with this divine bounty and have traversed mountain and desert, crossed sea and plain, until you arrived at the blessed shrine and perfumed your face and hair with the dust of the illumined threshold.  AB03162

ye have hastened unto the Habitation of Holiness, and in those sacred precincts embosoming the inestimable Gift - the Centre around which circle in adoration the Concourse on high; the Luminous Sepulchre; the Hallowed Spot - ye have with your own hands planted fragrant blossoms.  AB05168

In these days, pilgrimage to the blessed threshold is akin to attaining the very presence of Baha'u'llah--there is no distinction whatsoever between them. All souls circle around that Center, and the souls of the Concourse on high revolve round His blessed Shrine and that of the Bab.  ABU0923

Praise be to God that the believers of the Merciful are living on the slope of Mount Carmel in the Pilgrims' Home. Every morning they face the Tomb of Baha'u'llah and the Tomb of the Bab is in close neighborhood. This is indeed a rare privilege for which all of you must be thankful.  ABU1174

When I made the necessary preparations to build the Tomb of the Bab on Mount Carmel, there was a piece of land belonging to a Foreign Consul, the acquisition of which was essential to the building. For this land would open a direct path from the foot of the mountain to the Holy Tomb.  ABU0271

"But as regard its religious importance it is enough to say that it is the Holy land, the Blessed Spot, the land of Promise and the birthplace of Christ and all the Israelitish prophets. Here are the Mountains of Sinai, Seir, Sion, Horeb, Carmel, Zion and all the other sacred places."   ABU0512

The people will honor this grave. Therefore the friends of God must visit this grave and on my behalf bring flowers and beseech for him the sublimity of the spiritual station for him and have the utmost consideration for the members of his family. This personage will not be forgotten.   ABU1614

Many Israelitish prophets either lived here or passed a portion of their lives or sojourned in it for a while or spent the last days of their existences on this Mountain. His Holiness Christ came to this Holy Mount many times. Its atmosphere is impregnated with a wonderful spirituality.  ABU1205

"These spots are sacred in our eyes. The tourists who come to visit the sacred spots, are not real pilgrims, for while they are visiting the tombs they are not thinking of Christ: their thoughts are distracted; they are not mindful of the place they are visiting. You will be real pilgrims."  ABU0680

He has traversed valleys and ravines, climbed mountains, and crossed seas until he attained the honor and until his face was dustied with the soil of the threshold of the pure and radiant Garden, and his hair was covered with the dust of the circumambulation point of the Concourse on High.   AB07179

O thou who hast been honored to visit the Sacred Threshold whose precincts are the envy of the highest Paradise! Praise be to God that through the aid and grace of the Most Holy One, thou hast attained the honor of pilgrimage to the circling-place of the people of the most glorious Kingdom   AB04582

The holy house and focal point of circumambulation of the Concourse on High must be protected and preserved with the utmost wisdom in every respect, and served with reverence...that spiritual focal point of circumambulation in the Abha Kingdom...that station, the focal point of holy spirits  AB06024

Praise be to God Who hath made the seat of His splendor and the dayspring of His lights and the horizon of His signs and centre of His mysteries, the Supreme Horizon and His Glorious Kingdom and His Sublime Paradise and His Verdant Isle and the habitation of Jabulqa and the city of Jabursa.   AB03072

These days I began work on the Holy House in the City of God in Baghdad...It is the exaltation of the Word of God and the manifestation of the greatness of the Cause that after fifty years, the revered House has once again been raised up despite the enemies, and it must be built in utmost glory.  AB00633

"What is known is that a piece of ground was bought specially for the Tomb of Jesus and that is known as Golgotha. But the traces of this place were completely lost. When St. Helena went to Jerusalem she tried to have this place discovered. The Jews showed her the place that is now pointed out."   ABU3212

Concerning Jinab-i-Aqa Muhammad-Rida-yi-Yazdi, the builder, of whom thou didst write that he should come for construction - the heedless ones have created such corruption regarding the elevation of the Holy Shrine, both here and abroad, that it was observed the holy sepulcher would be endangered.  AB10601

The Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) once resided at the foot of Mount Carmel in Haifa, where He mentioned several stories of the Prophets about that land and some glad-tidings that were given concerning it, all of which prophecies and references have been fulfilled.  AB01516

The rocky crags of this mountain shall be transformed into gardens of flowers and roses, and shall become a place of pilgrimage for all the peoples of the world. The edifice of the Most Exalted Shrine shall be expanded. In time to come, the walls of the Most Exalted Shrine shall be built of such stone.  ABU2847

At last, praised be God, it was laid down in the very spot to which time and again the Blessed Beauty had repaired; in that place honored by His footsteps, where He had revealed Tablets, where the believers of Baghdad had been in His company; that very place where the Most Great Name was wont to stroll.  AB00002

Through the aid and bounty of the King of Oneness thou hast crossed mountains, hills, deserts and seas to reach the Blessed Spot. Thou hast illumined thy face, strengthened thy vision, and perfumed thy nostrils with the dust of the threshold of the Holy Shrine, which is the circling-point of holy beings.  AB09388

We have built the Shrine of the Bab in such a way that it consists of sections; thereby visitors may come directly from the bay and proceed to the Shrine. Walkways and flower gardens, filled with luscious trees, will surround it. The German Colony will also be the flower garden of the Shrine of the Bab.   ABU1173

O my Lord! Make those who dwell near Thy Sacred House channels for the water of Thy grace that descends from the clouds of bounty and generosity. Then make them servants at Thy sacred threshold of exalted station, strivers to uplift its perfumed pillars, and those who bow down upon its amber-scented earth.   AB05417

Regarding the honored, revered House, the circumambulation point of the Concourse on High that was mentioned before, the intent is that you should now proceed in such a way that perhaps in the future some descendant might arise in opposition and create difficulties, claiming "I am the heir and wish to sell it."   AB01626

The history of Mount Carmel is holy history. A spiritual atmosphere surrounds this 'Mountain of God.' Elijah and Jesus spent part of their precious lives upon it. 'Abdu'l-Baha loves Mount Carmel and has often visited it, sometimes staying overnight in caves which overlook the sea, in prayer and communion with God.   ABU1699

Praise be to God that thou hast crossed mountains and hills, traversed seas, circumambulated the Point round which circle the Kerubim of the Supreme Concourse, made the dust of the Holy Threshold a healing collyrium for thine eyes, and perfumed thy face, hair, locks and entire being with the Sacred and Purified Dust  AB08744

I am blessed by thy white sanctuary and thy verdant garden, and mine eyes were solaced by beholding thy luminous dome and thy spot radiating light to all regions. I beseech God to cause bounties to pour successively upon thy illumined shrine and thy purified sepulcher, and to bless my visitation to this perfumed tomb.  AB00277

Through great bounty he was enabled to be present on the fourth day of the Feast of Sacrifice, and with all the divine friends, in complete humility and submissiveness, he carried a jug of flowers and from the public garden to the Holy Shrine, turning toward that Sacred Threshold, he offered prayers and supplications.  AB07641

The resting place of the martyr Mulla 'Ali-Jan, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, is so blessed that if I were in Tehran I would build it with my own hands. Therefore several of the friends should join together in this service and purchase some land, even if in an isolated place, and transfer that pure body there.   AB01325

Regarding the repairs of the House in Madinatu'llah, this is most important and were a person to succeed in attending to this, he would attain unto the greatest of divine bounties and that blessed person would shine resplendently on earth and in the Supreme Concourse like a brilliant star over the horizon of sanctity.  AB03668

You are the servant of a threshold which is the shrine of holy souls and the circumambulation point of pure spirits - from its dust the fragrances of detachment are inhaled and from its earth life-giving breezes are breathed. It is the dawning-place of the lights of divine love and the rising-point of infinite favors.   AB03147

The Sacred House in Baghdad had fallen into ruins in most places. I wished to undertake its restoration and repair. When work on the repairs began, the people of Baghdad all rushed forth and through various intrigues and schemes, by means of the government court, took possession of the Shrine and expelled its caretakers.  AB11908

Rejoice, for God hath in this Day established upon thee His throne, hath made thee the dawning-place of His signs and the day spring of the evidences of His Revelation. Well is it with him that circleth around thee, that proclaimeth the revelation of thy glory, and recounteth that which the bounty of the Lord thy God hath showered upon thee.  BH02324

Two miles west of Jordan and an hour's walk from Tiberias is Tell-hum, now a mass of ruins. The principal ruins are those of the 'White Synagogue', as it has been called on account of its having been built of white limestone. Tell-hum is the famous Copernaum of the Gospel, and it is said this Synagogue is the one built by the Roman Centurion.  ABU0580

"We visited the two Blessed and Holy Thresholds and received infinite bounty. Now we have come to the summit of Mount Carmel which is Thy sacred garden, where on this blessed mountain many of the prophets prayed to Thee and where in the middle of the nights with the utmost humility they were occupied in (discovering) Thy secrets and mysteries."  AB04947

Whenever I go to the Cave of Elijah, a new vivacity is wafted over Me. This is because the life-generating spirit of Elijah envelops that Cave, though outwardly it is a ruin in comparison to this place (the German Colony). That is, notwithstanding the fact that it has no scenery, streets, trees or buildings, it has a spirit that is absent here.  ABU2429

You traversed thousands of parasangs from your familiar homeland, crossed many deserts, traversed numerous wilderness and seas, and endured hardships until you attained to the blessed, holy, luminous shrine. You kissed the sacred threshold, inhaled the fragrances of the blessed garden, and circumambulated the gathering place of the Supreme Concourse.   AB03161

"My fourth wish was to build a broad avenue from the gate to Acce to Bahajee on both sides of which be planted shade trees,- so that in the future the Pilgrims may walk under these overshadowing trees to the Holy Tomb. I wished also the environs of the Tomb to be surrounded with vast gardens and parks, filling the air with the sweet scent of flowers."  ABU1006

When you were in Haifa, He repeatedly described a location on Mount Carmel, saying that place had great beauty, charm, freshness and views. He commanded that this location should be acquired by any means possible - there was very great desire on His blessed part to obtain that place... Now we are engaged in constructing the holy edifice on Mount Carmel   AB01406

For several days now, Kum-i-Allah has become the seat of the Throne. This is that station which was mentioned and recorded in previous Books. The call of the Spirit was raised from this spot and all the Prophets of God gave glad tidings of its appearance. This divine hill, from the day it was created until these days, has been awaiting the cup of meeting.   BH03208

Jerusalem and the Holy of Holies is the honored Temple and the Greatest Name, for that divine city is the stronghold of God, as it encompasses all divine bounties and favors, possesses all true wealth and riches and spiritual gifts and ornaments, includes all vital conditions and characteristics, and is the place of manifestation of the wondrous divine signs.  AB03845

After the recitation of special tablets, prayers, odes and praises...all the friends, with complete humility and submissiveness, faced the Holy Shrine and with utter meekness and lowliness we all attained the honor of kissing the Sacred Threshold. The visitation continued until about an hour after sunset, and I lit all the lamps of the Pure Shrine with my own hand   AB02203

You have entered a place that is the point of circumambulation for the Concourse on High and the Kaaba of the people of the Most Glorious Kingdom. Its dust is sweet-scented ambergris, and its soil is more fragrant than musk to the spiritual ones. Its territory is renowned in all divine books and tablets as the Holy Land, and its realm is mentioned as the Blessed Spot.  AB01405

I address thee from this place of seclusion on the slope of Mount Carmel, facing and prostrating before the Blessed Spot, the circumambulation point of the Concourse on High, whose lights blaze and shine forth to the heart of heaven, and from which the holy fragrances spread to all regions and directions. The angels of the highest paradise seek blessings from the dust of its holy presence   AB06507

"I address thee from this furthermost shore and distant place, the Blessed Spot from which are diffused the sweet-scented perfumes of the divine mysteries, and from which are scattered the pearls from the shells of divine traces, and where shineth forth the Morn of Lights, and where is kindled and shineth the Lamp of Guidance, and where blazeth the fire of love upon the highest peaks of Sinai."  AB03293

This feast is one eternal! It has connection with and relation to the soul and body; it shall be continued everlastingly. At least an hundred thousand feasts shall follow this one. All the other gatherings shall be forgotten, whereas the commemoration and celebration of this meeting shall remain and be duly observed forever throughout endless ages; it is under the merciful glances of the Blessed Beauty.   ABU1063

As for the holy sites, they deserve veneration and honor, for they are associated with an illustrious person, and this veneration and honor pertains to the pure spirit, not the earthly body. This place was once the dwelling of the Beloved, where that pure soul resided; therefore, the lovers use the dust of that threshold as eye salve. Yet the attachment is not to the dust but to the effulgence of the Sun.   AB00214

Therefore, strive within thyself to visit the Most Great House of God which hath appeared in the temple of the Youth. Blessed be God, the best of creators, through Whom every direction was intended, every house confirmed, and every wise matter made manifest. Say: By God! This is verily the sanctuary of God and His House, round which circle the denizens of the All-Highest Paradise and the angels drawn nigh.   BH01821

Praise be to God that for the present you are all well and happy! I have met you and associated with you this hour. You are living on the slope of Mount Carmel, are near to the Holy Tomb of the Bab, inhaling the fragrances of its rose garden, looking at the unique panorama and are enjoying the gifts of heaven. This is the ultimate hope of the lovers of truth, to be in the neighborhood of the Most Eminent Mercy!  ABU0472

I have seen many places, but none has the vivifying air and the beauty of the Shrine of the Bab. The Shrine of the Bab will be constructed in the best possible way and most majestically. It will be surrounded with many gardens, displaying multitudes of flowers. Nine terraces will be constructed from the bottom of the mountain to the Shrine of the Bab, and nine more will be above it to the summit of the mountain.  ABU2167

All of these were the dwelling-places of the Prophets of old. All of them were blessed by the footsteps of the Divine Manifestations, Who spent their nights fervently praying and beseeching the Almighty for the fulfillment of His promised redemption. All these caves that you see, these are where the Prophets lived. They tread upon every spot of this land. Therefore, every part of this land is hallowed and sacred.   ABU1125

The Mausoleum contains, in addition to the main room of the Holy Shrine, two antechambers, which are dedicated to the memory of the first Unity, namely to His Holiness the Bab and His eighteen followers (disciples). If God is gracious unto me, I shall acquire more land from my German neighbour, so that I can build a marble staircase leading up from the broad, beautiful road of the German Colony to our Holy Shrine.   ABU0111

The truth is that this place has a spiritual atmosphere. There are many beautiful views, but they have no spiritual atmosphere. All the prophets have been on Mt. Carmel, but in the mountains of Lebanon there were no prophets. It is strange that all the world is one, yet this part has become especially blessed. Palestine has been mentioned by God continually. But Sumal, Lebanon, and Damascus have never been mentioned.   ABU0724

How we miss you in the White Spot! How we miss you in the Luminous Dome! How we miss you in the place described by the tongue of the Prophets! How we miss you where "the Lord has glorified Lebanon and made Carmel resplendent"! How we miss you in the Holy Land! How we miss you in the blessed valley! How we miss you on the highest peak! How we miss you on God's holy mountain! How we miss you at the finest spot in Haifa!   AB03731

Regarding construction of a shrine for that one ascended to God, a telegram was sent to Tehran. They replied that at present wisdom does not permit it. If a shrine were built, they would destroy it and it would cause an uproar, just as they destroyed the grave of Mirza Abdul-Husayn Afnan. Despite this, another letter will be written to the Spiritual Assembly that they should build that illumined grave however possible   AB11723

Thou seest me, O my God, on this lofty mountain and this exalted and impregnable spot, the shelter of every great man and the refuge of every noble and distinguished one. To it repaired in ancient times the youths whose hearts were set ablaze with the fire of the love of God. It was the abode of the Prophets, the sanctuary of Elijah, the retreat of Isaiah, and was traversed by the Spirit of God, Jesus Christ, upon Him be greetings and praise.   AB00145

Then they put the bodies, severed in two, in a hole smoothed over and hidden from the eyes of others until God raised up the son of this great one to being forth the crumbling and decayed remains from their radiant tomb: He carried those two holy bodies to the consecrated ground and blessed earth, their last resting-place and places them underneath the earth in order that they may be two radiant signs testifying to a sacrifice in the Cause of God.   AB00785

The sandy earth beyond 'Akka is so filled with spirituality and luminosity that one span of it is preferable to a thousand gardens, parks, lawns and meadows of this country, for the soil of that land is luminous and its billowing sea high as the firmament. His grace causes its breeze to blow. Its fragrance is the smell of strong-scented musk, its desert the valley of trust, its expanse the Blessed Shrine, and a place blooming with flowers and roses.  AB01763

For three-hundred years after Christ's death no one searched for his grave. Rubbish was deposited there. The mother of the Emperor Constantine came to Jerusalem and made careful enquiries to ascertain the place and they have come to the conclusion that the grave was there. This is the truth that for three-hundred years they used to put rubbish on it. Opinions differ, but the general opinion is that it is there (i.e. at the Church of the Sepulchre).   ABU2639

Then he was blessed to kiss the threshold of the Holy Court on Mount Carmel, which Thou didst honor in the texts of the Torah, the Psalms, and the Gospel. He dwelt near these two blessed spots, drank from both gushing springs, and his soul was gladdened by drawing near to the blessed Threshold whose light shines upon both East and West, until his last breath, when his remains were laid to rest in that good earth within sight of both blessed Thresholds.  AB00133

Praise be to God, you have laid your head at the threshold of this exalted station and blessed shrine, and you have kissed the thresholds that are the point of adoration of the Concourse on High. Know ye the value of this bounty. What is now specific will later become universal. The people of Mecca called the House of God Baytullah and those who dwelt near it Jarullah. That was a metaphorical relationship, but the relationship of these holy places is real.  ABU1967

When I arrived at the city of Los Angeles, - - a point most remote from Acca, I said to myself; 'O Thou Kaaba of my heart! How far, how far away from me Thou art! I said: 'O God! Will there come another day that I may put my head again at that Holy Court and worship there in Spirit and in Truth!'... I went there all alone. I kissed the Blessed Threshold and put my head at that Court of Heaven, and rested, Oh! I rested as I had not rested for a long, long time!   ABU1135

On foot and bareheaded, and with humility and modesty, and in a state of supplication and entreaty, chanting divine verses and prayers, they will attain to a visit of the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab]. On the path to the Shrine of the Exalted One, there will be pools of water, gardens and places for rest and respite. Afterwards, with bouquets of flowers over their shoulders, and while reciting divine verses and prayers, they will visit the Shrine of Baha'u'llah.  ABU3684

The spirituality of the plain of Acca is peerless and incomparable. The flowers are natural, god-like. For miles the plain will be covered in a few days with fragrant anemones and wild, variegated flowers. Bright illumination, divine spirituality and sublime beauty are witnessed in all directions. All other plains in comparison to this are sterile and unproductive. Here it is luminous (and with his blessed hands he waved toward the plain). Oh! How wonderfully bright it is!   ABU2442

However, regarding the water cistern, since this servant was imprisoned before its construction, the European and Ottoman engineers were unable to properly execute its solidity and arrangement as they should have. They left the work incomplete, and consequently the wall of the cistern on the sea side collapsed and some efforts were wasted. However, this was not a problem - it has been rebuilt under this servant's own engineering with perfect solidity and will soon be completed.  AB01752

O thou pilgrim with musk-scented breath! Through the aid and bounty of the King of Oneness, thou hast traversed mountains, hills, deserts and seas to reach the Blessed Spot. At the Holy Shrine, which is the circumambulation point of holy beings, thou hast illumined thy face with the dust of its threshold, strengthened thy vision, and perfumed thy nostrils. The dust and soil of this exalted Threshold is a mighty effective collyrium for the eyes of the holy ones who circle round it.  AB09388

The plain of Acca that you observe today will become an emblem of Paradise. In prosperity and progressiveness it will become unique and unparalleled in the entire world. The Kings and emperors of the world shall come to visit the holy Tomb. Having reached the shore of Acca they shall kneel down and prostrate on the ground and with pots of flowers in their hands and on their heads they shall proceed on foot toward the Blessed Tomb. Then they will visit the Tomb of the Bab on Mount Carmel.  ABU0804

This service is a crown placed upon thy head from heaven. This service is a light that hath shone upon thy brow like the manifest morn. This service is a proclamation of generosity that shall encompass East and West. This service is a banner that shall be raised high in the heavens. This service is a jewel that shineth in the crown of the kings of the Kingdom, for it is the Ark concerning which it is stated in the Qur'an: "A sign of his kingdom is that there shall come to you the Ark wherein is tranquility."  AB06841

There is a method for the visit of the Holy Tomb of the Blessed Perfection. First we resorted to the Garden of Rizwan, and after feasting and drinking tea we were all filed into along line, and while each person carried a pot of flowers on his head, we started on foot toward the Holy Tomb. The deceased Mirza Mahmoud chanted prayers and communes all along the road. I cannot describe the spiritual atmosphere that surrounded us all along the Path. We were all in a state of the utmost supplication, attraction and humility.  ABU0837

"Oh! for the former days when thou, O House of God, wert made His footstool, the days when in ceaseless strains the melody of the All-Merciful poured forth from thee! What hath become of thy jewel whose glory hath irradiated all creation? Whither are gone the days in which He, the Ancient King, had made thee the throne of His glory, the days in which He had chosen thee alone to be the lamp of salvation between earth and heaven, and caused thee to diffuse, at dawn and at eventide, the sweet fragrance of the All-Glorious?"  BH01536

As for the House, its custodianship has been entrusted to the exalted lady, the mother of His Holiness, and this is what the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken at this time: "O My Afnan! Upon thee be My glory and My loving-kindness. The exalted lady, the mother of His Honour, is most entitled to reside in that House. We have entrusted its custodianship to her and bestowed it upon her, and after her to her descendants, that it may be a remembrance for her from God, the True One, and a memorial to her throughout ages and centuries."   BH00651

Through the invisible confirmations of the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, praise be to God the honored House has emerged from its state of ruin. It has been rebuilt and reconstructed again on its original foundation and previous arrangement, and to the extent possible its auxiliary features were expanded. And through the confirmations of the Greatest Name, gradually all the dependencies of that magnificent House, such as the hospital, orphan schools, home for the elderly and others will also be completed.   AB02047

There was a large plot of land above the Holy Shrine which, had it remained in the hands of strangers, they might have constructed a building there in the future, causing a great problem. That land had repeatedly been blessed by His footsteps, and there were several cypress trees there under which the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, had repeatedly sat while the loved ones of God attained His presence. That plot of land was also necessarily purchased in these days for two thousand tumans and joined to the Holy Shrine.  AB01752

Praise be to God Who caused His servant to journey for twelve days from the Sacred Mosque on the seventeenth day of the third sacred month to the Sacred Territory, the Holy Land whereon was established the Throne of Glory and wherein were exalted the resting places of the kindred of the transcendent God - the holy surface whose very soil was created from the face of the Throne. The blessings of God be upon it so long as the sun riseth from the depths of creation and setteth, for at no moment doth the All-Merciful cease to shower His blessings upon it.  BB00279

However great care must be taken regarding the blessed House lest it draw the attention of strangers, for there is danger. The Iranians have not yet abandoned their savagery, recklessness and destructiveness. In such an illumined century when civilization and culture have encompassed all horizons, after six hundred years they still violate the tombs of Sa'di and Hafiz. Therefore they may learn of the gatherings and during times of upheaval and revolution show disrespect to the sacred House. Thus it would be better and more appropriate for gatherings to be held elsewhere.   AB00650

As for what you asked about visiting the Holy Places and showing utmost respect to those luminous spots, there is no doubt those Holy Places are the source of divine bounties, for the heart attains great tenderness upon arriving at these luminous spots of martyrs and holy souls. Such respect is both spiritual and physical, but it is not obligatory on all souls to visit those spots except for the three places which are the Holy Dust [in Akka], the honored House in Iraq, and the exalted House in Shiraz. This is obligatory when one has the means and ability and there are no obstacles.  AB03527

Be assured about these matters. God willing, through the aid and favor of the Ancient Beauty, we will not allow anyone to act according to their own desires in the Cause of God, for the mighty fortress of God's Cause is firm and impregnable...Regarding what you wrote about the honored House, the Sacred Threshold (may my spirit be sacrificed for its dust), detailed pleas and supplications constantly arrive from visitors and passersby of that Holy City...The point is that this Threshold's importance exceeds that of 'Abdu'l-Baha's very spirit - consider then how honored and revered it is.  AB02294

Fifty years ago, according to the prophecies of the divine Prophets, the tent of grandeur and majesty of the Lord of Hosts, the Ancient Beauty--exalted be His Greatest Mention--was raised on the slopes of this Mount Carmel, and the eternal divine sovereignty was established upon the earth. Ruins began to turn to prosperity, and in the darkness of despair, the light of the sun of hope shone forth. Then, with the confirmation of the Most Holy, Most Glorious Beauty, the exalted Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab]--may my soul be a sacrifice for all besides Him--was built on the face of Mount Carmel.  ABU0288

The Mutasarrif of Akka appointed Salih Effendi, an engineer who had connections with us, and one of the council members of the Haifa government to investigate and then render their opinion. They conducted their investigation, gathered the necessary information, and wrote that there were no concerns - this was a six-arch building, and Mount Carmel was neither restricted nor limited to this building. There was already a very large church on Mount Carmel, and the Germans had properties above, so there were no political concerns. This report was given to the Mutasarrif who sent it to the Qaim-Maqam. The Qaim-Maqam rejected it and said to inquire directly from the Mabeyn, then he would give a satisfactory answer.  ABU0244

After a thousand years during which the ancient Persian capital lay in ruins with nothing remaining but mounds of earth and the Arch of Ctesiphon - itself half-cracked - truly a remarkable arch fifty-two paces wide and very tall and solid - divine confirmations encompassed the ancient Persians that this ruined capital might again be populated and prosperous. That shrine is among the sacred spots where an elaborate Mashriqu'l-Adhkar must be built, and if possible the Arch of Ctesiphon itself should be restored and made into a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, along with its dependencies - a hospital, a house of healing, schools both higher and elementary, a refuge for the poor and weak, a shelter for orphans and elderly, and a traveler's hospice.  ABU0131

Let the eleven Temples which are the seat of establishment of the Temple of the Branch be raised of diamond, and let the verses, letters and words of glorification, sanctification and praise that were revealed in the Temple by command of the Primal Point, exalted and glorified be He, be of emerald, ruby and pearl in their colors. After this, by God's leave, all these great and honored stones shall come into being through a hidden and treasured stone from crystal stone, which can be arranged in whatever length, width and thickness desired. And now, in the absence of its appearance, let the Temples be arranged from pure, refined, luminous, white crystal stone, and let the lines of verses be arranged in gold with the most beautiful and perfect craftsmanship that is ordained in the wonders of creation.  A02490

Regarding the illumined and perfumed resting place of Amatu'l-Baha, the mother, and Varaqatu'l-Firdaws in Ishqabad - they wrote from there that it is not possible to place these two resting places under the shelter of one structure since the distance is too great. Therefore it is better that they be built separately. I also observed that the burial ground of this community should be a rose garden, so that whoever enters it will find their nostrils perfumed and their eyes brightened. Therefore here we did not build a structure over the graves of the mother, Kalim and the Greater Afnan, but rather we constructed the graves themselves with utmost delicacy, and truly it is most delightful. Therefore we wrote to Ishqabad that they should build those two illumined graves with utmost delicacy and adornment.   AB01076

You had asked certain questions regarding the house. These questions are entirely unnecessary. The answer is the same as was already indicated: there should be absolutely no departure from the original plan. The aim is not to embellish, but to preserve the precise state and condition prevailing in that blessed abode at the time when the exalted Beauty, the Primal Point--may my soul be a sacrifice for His sake--was dwelling therein. Nor should the house be altered in any of its general or particular characteristics. This, indeed, is that which is required; otherwise were gem-encrusted bricks of gold and silver to be layered one upon another, yet would they fail to render it justice. Bear ever in mind that the purpose is to preserve the original design from alteration, and that the same holdeth true for the ornamentation, doors, and other dependencies.   AB00584

I have taken 4,600 steps. This is the distance between the city of 'Akka and the Shrine of Baha'u'llah.  ABU3734

As to what was written concerning the House and his honor Mirza regarding [Baha'u'llah]: their best course is to say what they had said at first and acknowledge that all these properties belong there. If from the beginning, during the upheavals in that land, they had spoken truthfully and stated that these properties were not theirs, none of these matters would have occurred and they would have found themselves at ease in every way. For His Holiness and they themselves know that in this place nothing even as fine as a hair has emerged or will emerge that deviates from justice and fairness, and their interests would certainly have been protected in any case. A hundred thousand regrets that one should be heedless of what benefits them and be unaware of their own harm and benefit. All their properties revert to this place according to valid deeds, but when the decree of imprisonment, trials and emigration came to pass, they did not release even one house. Although in truth this matter arose from their fear, yet one of their station should not be so weakened by the clamor of the heedless that a house which was the dwelling place of the Desired One should come to such a pass that one of the friends must repeatedly purchase it to uphold the Cause. God is witness that I do not consider this fitting for his honor Mirza, for this shame and disgrace will endure until the Day of Resurrection. BH00908

Only the Holy House in Baghdad remains, which must be built. Should this House remain in ruins and not be constructed, it will be a wound that shall remain in My heart, and I shall depart from this world.  ABU2857


The restoration of the honored House is among the most urgent obligations, and not a moment's delay is permissible. Not a minute's delay is permissible. This is of utmost importance, and its spiritual and physical effects are profound.  AB03533
Praise be to God that thou hast reached the luminous Shrine, inhaled the holy fragrances from the blessed earth, prostrated thyself upon the sacred dust of that Threshold  AB12822
 
At this moment the honored pilgrim to the Point of Adoration of the Supreme Concourse prepares for departure, and this servant faces towards the Point of Adoration of the people of the Kingdom with this intention: that he may, as proxy for the loved ones of Egypt, water the Blessed Shrine--that is, that he may, as their representative, each with a pitcher, water and tend the Divine Garden in the Sacred Precinct.  AB12832
 
