The soul is the Sanctuary of God  ABU3609

Question: Do you teach of the subconscious mind? Is it the spirit that answers your questions, or is it the subconscious mind?  Answer: In the human being there is conceived a perfect reality which according to various terminologies has received different names. Man, in infancy, is called a babe. When he reaches maturity he is called a mature man. When he reaches old age he is called an old man. The sublime reality latent in man is given different names. When it discovers realities it is called the mind or intellect. When it is the cause of life it is called the spirit. It is the same agency functioning in different degrees. When it answers analytical questions it is called the subconscious mind, because it discloses truths. When it is the cause of comfort and life it is called spirit. This is the consultant. ABU2422

The Bounty of God is within the heart; it receives the Light  ABU3088

Man's real glory lies in the spiritual or material life of his soul  ABU2923

For man is human through his spirit and soul, not through bodies and physical forms.   AB05657

"The reality of human nature in this physical body is the soul which is the source of life and movement."  AB04126

Miss B.: What is the difference between soul and spirit? Abdul Baha: They mean the same. It is one reality. The names are different.  ABU2940

The power which perceives in the realm of mind, which penetrates to the essence of all things, is the intellectual power, the perceiving soul.  ABU0780

The human spirit is the ruler of his being: The spirit is that heavenly gem whose reality the most exact investigators and mystic knowers have never fathomed.  AB00282

"the human soul is to be compared to a weaver, but human life to a woven fabric; the human body, and foremost the brain, is the implement, the organ, through which the weaving is done"  ABU0453

Man is not man because of his body; man is man because of his soul, for in regard to bodily things humans and animals are partners. It is through the soul that he is distinguished from the animal.  ABU0114

In truth, this is the mystery of life and its essence. They have attributed a spirit to the body and called it the soul - that spirit grows cold at the sight of Azrael, but this spirit endures until the trumpet of Israfil, nay until whatsoever God willeth.  BH02414


This essence or soul of man, because of its innate purity, and its connection with the unseen Ancient Entity, is old as regards time, but new as regard individuality. This connection is similar to that of the ray to the sun -- the effect to the primal Cause.  ABU0185

The spirit is important. The shell is not so important, but the pearl inside the shell is of great importance. The glass or chimney is not so important, but the light itself is every important. These is no importance in outer words, but the importance is in the significances.  ABU1893
