whatsoever a man soweth here he reapeth there.   ABU1950

The everlasting life of man is of the utmost importance.   ABU0589

True rest and comfort belong to the soul, which are attained in the eternal world.  AB10555

I beseech Thee to forgive the sins of such as have abandoned the physical garment and have ascended to the spiritual world  AB11094

All living beings in that City are unaware of death, and death never overtakes them.   ABU1646

God shall surely raise you from your graves and make you witness the creation of your souls  BB00004

Q. Is a soul ever annihilated?  A. No. It will be placed in different conditions by God's Mercy, and will eventually progress.  ABU3579

"They, who have passed into the Divine Garden, pray for us there, as we pray for them here."  ABU3058

O thou soul which art at rest! Return to thy Lord, well-pleased with Him, well-pleasing Him.  AB08680

If both had the same degree of development, they would be re-united immediately after death.   ABU1243

Moral life consists in the government of one's self. Immortality is government of a human soul by the Divine Will.   ABU3529

In the Gospel (St. Luke 12:4) it is said: "Be not afraid of them that kill the body and after that have no more that they can do. But I will tell you whom ye shall fear. Fear him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I may unto you, fear him." 'Abdu'l-Baha said that this means that the death of the body is of no importance and not in the least to be feared, because a spiritual soul lives forever. But the thing to be feared is the death of the spirit.  ABU2603

ere there nothing after death, Christ would not have accepted the cross; the prophets of all time would not have sacrificed their lives. They were in touch with the celestial world and they overlooked this transitory life.  ABU1155

"I swear by the Educator of existence that the life of this world is death and its comfort is affliction, but as long as the veil remains, man is not aware of the harshness and constriction of this world. When the veil is lifted through ascension to the Kingdom of bounty, one realizes that this world was like a woman's womb and this space a narrow prison of trials."  AB01588

Consider how a being, in the world of the womb, was deaf of ear and blind of eye, and mute of tongue; how he was bereft of any perceptions at all. But once, out of that world of darkness, he passed into this world of light, then his eye saw, his ear heard, his tongue spoke. In the same way, once he hath hastened away from this mortal place into the Kingdom of God, then he will be born in the spirit; then the eye of his perception will open, the ear of his soul will hearken, and all the truths of which he was ignorant before will be made plain and clear.   AB02947

Know thou that for existence there is a centre round which revolve the firmaments of everlasting life. And whensoever thou shouldst reach that centre thou wouldst also attain all other mighty centers in this mighty universe.  AB07716

This is why in the holy books it is mentioned that after the ascension of a soul, good deeds and charitable works should be performed for that soul, and these good deeds and charitable works become the cause of the elevation of its station. Thus it becomes clear that progress for man--meaning the acquisition of divine perfections and infinite bounties--is possible in every world. However, man's appearance in this world is for progress in both stations and perfections, while in the next world progress is confined to divine perfections.  AB01263

Taking the material ocean as an illustration, 'Abdu'l-Baha said, The atoms composing an ocean are, in appearance the ocean, but the identity of the atoms remains. So it is with our individuality in the ocean of life, it remains.   ABU3516

We may liken the condition of men in this world to that of the child while it is still in the womb. It has known no other world than that of the womb; it cannot picture to itself a wider or a better world.  ABU0563

those who die in their sins are not left without the possibilities of attaining to life   ABU3087

This is the day wherein every soul can attain a station that will endure throughout the past and future eternities  BH08106

It is even possible for those who have died in sin and unbelief to be transformed, that is, to become the object of divine forgiveness. This is through the grace of God and not through His justice, for grace is to bestow without desert and justice is to give that which is deserved.   AB00399

Madame J asked: Can our friends see us from the spiritual world?  Abdul-Baha answered: "Of course, they can see us and know everything we are doing, for that is the world of real sight and sense."  ABU3490

Those souls for whom the spiritual life has been perfected shall never perish or cease to exist. They derived benefits from this life and bore fruit. How wondrous is that fruit! It is nearness to God; it is eternal life; it is everlasting illumination; it is unchanging existence; it is a life shining with light and the other human perfections, even while on this speck of dust.  ABU0182

The center of the Sun of Reality is the Supreme World, the Divine Kingdom. Souls that are pure and holy, when their elemental frame dissolves, hasten to the divine world. That world exists within this world, but the people of this world are unaware of it, like minerals and plants that are unaware of the animal and human worlds.  AB00409

Those souls who have not attained the Greater Guidance have existence, but are subject to extinction. Consider that although mineral existence is real and established, in relation to human existence the mineral is as non-existence. Similarly, existence in darkness is as non-existence compared to existence in light. Otherwise, souls certainly have existence, even if deprived of the Greater Grace.  AB11484

Question: Is individuality retained by various individual consciousnesses?  Abdu'l Baha: Complete individuality belongs only to the station of the Prophet. Those who follow him are under the "shadow" of his station. After death man does not develop through conscious effort, but through the power of Divine Bounty or unfoldment. All good works, loving memories, prayers and help from lesser beings assist the soul to push forward after death.  ABU3200

Thou hast written that some of the friends have informed thee that if man does not progress, he will perish and become nonexistent. What is intended is not absolute nonexistence. The meaning is that the existence of a heedless person in comparison to the existence of a perfect individual is like being nonexistent. For instance, a stone is nonexistent in comparison to man, even though it existeth in the mineral condition. In brief, all souls exist, but the existence of the heedless and the ignorant in comparison to the existence of the perfect and the wise is like nonexistence. The intention of this discourse is that both the ignorant and the wise possess existence, but the existence of the ignorant is like that of a stone, while the existence of the perfect individual resembleth the existence of man. The stone in comparison to man is nonexistent.  AB07480

"The meaning of Christ's saying was not that the unbelievers become absolutely annihilated; the meaning of Christ is that the life of those, who reject Him is as non-existent, compared with the life of those who accept Him."  ABU0681

The world of existence is like an ocean and these determined beings are its waves. Although they have existence and visibility, they are considered non-existent and lost, except for the sacred realities of divine souls. Although they too are determined beings, yet being illumined from the praised station and assisted from the extended shadow, they attain eternal realization in the world of existence and find everlasting determination. This is the meaning of "All things perish save His face."  AB01156

All realities and souls are immortal, even the souls of unbelievers and defective souls, but in relation to the souls of the holy ones and sanctified souls, the former have no importance and significance. This piece of wood, for instance, exists, but in relation to the existence of man its existence is insignificant. As for the immortality of heedless souls after relinquishing the elemental body, their immortality is the same as extinction because they are deprived of a goodly life. Consider the mineral. Although it continues to exist in the plane of the mineral, in comparison to the existence of man it is pure nonexistence.  The other worlds are habitations for the improvement of realities, the transformation of essences, and the renewal of character, but the elevation of ranks and obtaining forgiveness and pardon is another matter.  ABU3296

The Master gave this explanation of the passage, "Let the dead bury the dead": "Dust has existence, the body of man has existence, but when the body of man is non-existent it returns to dust; therefore, dust in its relation to the body of man is non-existent, but in its own station it has existence. The dead are in the station of dust. They both have life, but what a difference!" ABU1470

In the spiritual world and divine Kingdom there is no time and place, since times and limits are relative matters, like east and west, south and north, night and day, month and year - these all are relative to the earth, not the celestial sun.  ABU0886

Q. If one refuses the Cause of Baha'u'llah during his lifetime, may he hear of it after death?  A. Yes, he will hear of it in his next life, but through the mercy of God, not through his own ability.  ABU3496

Q. Do we have to leave the body in order to return to God, or is the true return when the Word becomes Spirit in the heart and ascends as sweet incense back to God?  A. This is right, this is right.

Q. What is the connection of the spirit with the body? A. It has the same connection as the sun has with the mirror. Death is the name for the dissolution of this connection.  ABU3571

Spirit is the highest and supreme development of the soul. Soul is the material or outer self--the Mind. is the action of the Soul's powers. The Body is the physical covering or medium in which Mind acts and functions. At death everything but Spirit is destroyed and becomes extinct. ABU3225

Q. Do the dead pass entirely away from the earth, losing all consciousness of an interest in the people and affairs of the world?  A. No, the dead retain both interest in and remembrance of those they love   ABU3625

Asked if disembodied souls could communicate with embodied ones, He replied: "Yes, but they do not do it through medums nor in material ways, but in spiritual ways."  ABU3549

Q. What becomes of an undeveloped infant's soul? A. It rests with the mercy of God and through the eternal bounty it will not be deprived of that mercy. ABU3596

Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the Breath of the Holy Spirit; and these, after physical death, are in a certain condition, having feeling and discernment in their environment; but in comparison with the pure souls who have been vivified by the Holy Spirit they are as dead, and deprived of life.  AB11118

[The question was asked if it were possible to establish communication with the dead, and whether it was wise or advisable to attend seances or to engage in table-turning, spirit-rapping, etc.] The Master said these rappings, etc., were all material things, and of the body. What is needed is to rise above the material to the realms of the purely Spiritual. Table-turning and such like were material, a natural result, and not spiritual.  But it was possible to communicate with the dead through the condition of the character and the heart. ABU3265

"Shall I find my mother again?" The Master said: "Certainly. Separation is only in the world of bodies."  ABU0326

Supreme importance should be attached, therefore, not to this first creation but rather to the future life.  AB03896

Q. I am wondering about the next world, whether I shall ask to be permitted to come back here to earth to help?  A. Why should you wish to return here? In My Father's House are many mansions -- many, many worlds! Why should you desire to come back to this particular planet?  ABU3526

"Of course, they can see us and know everything we are doing, for that is the world or real sight and sense."   ABU3490

This lesson is to explain, if it be possible for either a believer or an unbeliever to advance in the next world.  The believer attains to eternal life in this world, but the unbeliever is eternally veiled from the presence of God. Eternal life is knowledge of God and eternal punishment is deprivation of the Sight of God. According to the statements in the Gospel, those who do not believe are eternally condemned, while those who [...] are believers will be in eternal joy and happiness. But the Mercy of God surpasses His Condemnation.  ABU0584

These pure souls have hastened to the celestial world and soared to the hidden realm of the kingdom of mysteries.  AB07755

Thy heart and soul are like a flowing treasure, and after ascension thou wilt shine radiantly in the hidden world.   AB02898

Question: Is there any predominant quality which man should develop in order to obtain especial excellence or power after death?  Answer: No, man should develop all his qualities for each quality has its own use and function. ABU3555

"Our real gathering is There! Our divine Assembly is There! Our spiritual Feast is There! Our eternal union is There!"   ABU0469

"It has abandoned the glass of the mortal world and, like a lamp, become illumined in the world of the divine Kingdom."  AB03698

but for that soul who has ascended unto God, this ascension to the Abha Kingdom is a supreme bounty and an infinite favor.  AB05561

And when he hastened to the infinite realm, he found rest in the shade of the Divine Tree and attained the complete bounty   AB05710

thou didst attain unto the presence of the Most High...and wert blest with the gift of reunion and granted life everlasting   AB07084

those pure souls are released from the world of matter and enlisted in the rank of the angels of the Universe of the spheres  AB11080

her cage was broken, and her spirit soared to the atmosphere of Thy great mercy and the heights of Thy pardon and forgiveness  AB05502

when the birds of paradise soar to the holy gardens it is cause for joy, not mourning, and occasion for gladness, not regret.   AB04060

She hastened from the dusty realm to the sacred plain and departed from this world of darkness to the realm of the All-Merciful.   AB04307

And he says fear God and dread Azrael, for soon breaths will be cut off and we will hasten to that other world and find each other   AB04389

guided all those present to turn toward the Supreme Kingdom and the imperishable dominion and eternal life and everlasting felicity  ABU2992

Now he hath gained an abundant portion of eternal life and received a gracious recompense from the favors of the All-Forgiving Lord.  AB08168

She is very happy in the Kingdom of God! Although she passed away from this material world, she is living in her spiritual children.  AB10287

God willing, after leaving this earthly body thou shalt take up thine abode in the divine world nigh unto the Beloved of all mankind.  AB08860

She verily ascended to God and returned to Him just as she had appeared from Him. She hath returned, rested, rejoiced and is overjoyed.   BH10510

The divine worlds are limitless, and the rewards for goodly deeds and spiritual qualities lie hidden and treasured in all these worlds.   BH04630

Death is praised as a herald for those near to God and sincere ones, and described as the gate of reunion and source of hidden treasures   BH03815

Thy death was naught but a translation from the earthly abode to the divine dwelling, from the lowest station to the Most Exalted Companion   BH02934

You have not lost him. At most, there is now a temporary separation between you. In the Kingdom there will be a meeting. You will meet him.   ABU1194

For some time I have been ill and weary of life in this world, yearning to journey in the other world. If I depart from this nest and hasten to the realm of the Kingdom, do not forget me, do not remain silent, do not seek rest. Remember my counsels, heed my advice. Act in such wise that you may shine forth in the Kingdom of God and adorn your countenance with the light of Baha and the radiance of the Covenant. Physical splendor lasteth but a moment, and the ocean of joy in this earthly realm is but a dewdrop. Show forth a lofty aspiration and be not content with a moment or a dewdrop. I shall not forget thee, neither in this world nor in the world to come. AB08412

To consider that after the death of the body the spirit perishes, is like imagining that a bird in a cage will be destroyed if the cage is broken--though the bird has nothing to fear from the destruction of the cage. Our body is like the cage, and the spirit is like the bird. We see that without the cage this bird flies in the world of sleep; therefore, if the cage becomes broken, the bird will continue to exist; its feelings will be even more powerful, its perceptions greater and its happiness increased. In truth, from hell it reaches a paradise of delights, because for the thankful bird there is no paradise greater than freedom from the cage.  AB03579

Immortal existence in the beyond is but a continuation of our life and work here, through other means, in other forms, in other surroundings.   ABU3351

Q. Are we not able, through love and faith, to make those on the other side hear of the Cause who had not heard of it while here? A. Yes, surely sincere prayer always has its effect, and it has a great influence in the other word. We are never cut off from those who are there. The real and genuine influence is not in this world but in that other.  ABU3450

Hold fast with the hand of trust to the hem of the favor of the Eternal Sovereign, that through His grace you may abide in the everlasting worlds.  BH10256

Know thou that he is with Us and abides in manifest spirit and delight. Were the veil to be lifted, the servants would behold him in an exalted station   BH04854

Glad tidings to you, O people of faithfulness, for what the King of the divine cloud has bestowed upon you - eternal life in His most glorious Kingdom.   AB04466

and she being attracted unto the Kingdom of God, her spirit soared unto the summits of holiness in the paradise of eternal life, in the place of Meeting  AB05894

He was freed from this transient dust-heap and soared to the pure world. He gained freedom from worldly darkness and became immersed in divine radiance.  AB04449

Now, as the human spirit continues after death, it must either advance or decline, and in the next world to cease to advance is the same as to decline.   AB01145

at thy ascension a company of angels and the Spirit welcomed thee  BH02188

He is in an exalted station. O my handmaid, be not grieved at the separation from your son. He is present in the abode of security and the seat of truth.  BH08671

Q: Can a departed soul converse with someone still on earth?  Abdu'l-Baha. -- A conversation can be held, but not as our conversation. There is no doubt that the forces of the higher worlds interplay with the forces of this plane. The heart of man is open to inspiration; this is spiritual communication. As in a dream one talks with a friend while the mouth is silent, so is it in the conversation of the spirit. A man may converse with the ego within him saying: "May I do this? Would it be advisable for me to do this work?" Such as this is conversation with the higher self.  ABU1482

Grieve not at her ascension, her return, and her turning to God. By My life! She hath attained unto that which the hearts of the mystics cannot comprehend.  BH01799

The spirit never leaves man even when he sleeps but it sees and knows. It never goes out and comes in again. It is the body that enters and makes its exit.  ABU2279

And this captivity is freedom, and these chains are sovereignty. This defeat is the very essence of grace, and these conquests are the cause of prosperity.  AB09379

"make all aware of the station of death and what appeareth therefrom... By My life! In death are treasured God's consummate wisdom and His hidden mysteries"  BH06000

I have been released from that tainted world and found peace and tranquility in a private chamber of the Kingdom and a secluded abode of the Heavenly Court   AB02657

This passing is not death and loss, nor extinction and nonexistence, but rather deliverance from the world of darkness and entrance into the eternal world.   AB05661

I have made death a messenger of joy to thee. Wherefore dost thou grieve? I made the light to shed on thee its splendor. Why dost thou veil thyself therefrom?  BH00386

Those souls who are steadfast and who ascend through divine love have, in the presence of God, a station which all pens and tongues are powerless to describe.  BH10220

Make these friends alive and enduring in Your Kingdom, so that through Your grace and bounty they may become creators and players, singers and dancers  AB06119

"Now that sapling is in the stream of beauty and majesty in the utmost freshness and vibration, and like a bird of the meadow in the divine garden and rose-garden"  AB02393

Dear Daniel calls out to you from the hidden Kingdom: "O divine friends, be not grieved at separation from me, for I am in a world that encompasses all my desires."  AB00925

When thou hastenest from the womb of this world like a speechless babe to the divine realm, all these bounties will become manifest in that other, everlasting world.  AB09570

Grant then O my God, that Thy servant may consort with Thy chosen ones, Thy saints and Thy Messengers in heavenly places that the pen cannot tell nor the tongue recount  BH03109

When thou dost hasten like a speechless babe from the womb of this world to the divine realm, all these bestowals will become manifest in that other, everlasting world.  AB09570

At the dawn of existence and the morn of manifestation, you attained the vision of the lights of the Desired One, and to the call of "Am I not?" you responded "Yea," and became intoxicated from the cup of truth. But you shall find the effects of this wine in another world, and witness the brilliant results of attaining His presence on the Day of God in the most luminous realm.  AB06978

The great happiness is after the departure unto the Supreme Friend, entrance into the Paradise of Immortality and the Supreme Garden at the time of meeting and beholding.  AB03882

Although that radiant star has vanished from the horizon of this earthly realm, yet in the dawning-place of the Abha Kingdom it shines and gleams with utmost brilliance.   AB04030

Verily he who has died from among you has been raised unto God and God is witness to this. By God! He has returned to the Primal Point in a mighty and impregnable station.  BH07300

Now she calls you from the Abha Kingdom: "O my children! If you knew what bounty I have attained, you would surely abandon the earthly body and soar to this divine realm."  AB05128

If there is no spirit in the human body, what benefit is the body? It is dead. Similarly, if the body of existence is deprived of spiritual progress, it is a lifeless body   ABU0690

And though we are now scattered and dispersed, yearning and unsettled, ultimately we will be intimate companions and confidants in His shelter, harmonious and of one voice.   AB05927

Know thou of a certainty that the soul is exalted above time and place and that this intervening stage is also spiritual by nature, wholly detached from the contingent world.  AB11857

He who hath ascended hath taken shelter beneath the canopies of the mercy of his Lord, and dwelleth in communion with God's chosen ones and trusted ones in an exalted Paradise.   BH00464

They have ascended to stations that no description can approach. In this case you must be joyful and carry out those things which after their ascension bring joy to their spirit   BH02293

At this moment she is the companion of the angels of the highest heaven, hath heard the melody of the hidden Herald, and hath fallen into the ocean of Thy forgiveness and pardon.  AB09095

God hath forgiven him before his ascension and after his ascension. He hath caused him to enter a station the description of which the pens of all worlds are powerless to recount.  BH03773

For yesterday that loving soul was among the free ones, and has now joined the forgiven ones. That longing soul has hastened to the secluded retreat of the Beloved of the horizons.  AB07228

"What is death but the transference of the soul from its nether abode to its exalted habitation. Through it the carpet of joy is rolled out and the standard of delight is unfurled."  BH06887

That bird of the garden of the Covenant hath soared upwards to his nest in God's Kingdom, that candle of divine fellowship is now shining in the gatherings of heavenly illumination.  AB07588

Although those souls who hasten from this world of darkness to the luminous realm are sanctified from the conditions of the physical world and have no attachment to this mortal life  AB08433

The ultimate result is that one hastens from the world of darkness to the world of light, and migrates from the confines of the physical realm to the heart-expanding spiritual realm   AB04002

That spirit can communicate with spirit is proven by the known fact of teaching...So soul can communicate with soul and in the realms of existence such intercommunication is possible.  ABU2773

But concerning the spirit, know that thy pure son shall be with thee in the Kingdom of God and thou shalt witness his smiling face, illumined brow, handsome spirit and real happiness.  AB08999

After the ascension of the Supreme Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His loved ones - ascension is the greatest bounty, the supreme freedom, and an endless blessing   AB03214

Your servant who is enriched by Your favors is the accepted intercessor at the gate of Your oneness for that servant who is submerged in sins - so immerse him in the seas of Your mercy  AB04962

Therefore he hastened from this finite world to the Infinite One, ascended from this dark world to the Apex of Luminosity and from this temporary life passed into the Everlasting One.   AB04211

She left behind the body and became entirely soul, and from this dark and transient world of dust she journeyed to the luminous divine realm and entered the sanctum of the All-Merciful.  AB04821

Ye are the children of the Period of BAHA'O'LLAH and have become the appearance of the Effulgence of Mercifulness in the Day wherein the rays of the Divine Sun radiate upon all things.   AB05984

until his spirit ascended to the vicinity of Your mercy and soared to the Kingdom of immortality through Your grace and gift, and reached the seat of truth through Your pardon and bounty  AB04240

This spiritual communication and mutual exchange of thoughts is conditioned upon certain facts that prepare the person in this world to communicate with the spirit of his departed ones.   ABU2405

In truth, those children are not lost, but rather hidden. For every thing hidden away there is another state of presence, and for every thing folded up there is another place of unfolding.  AB09499

That father of thine hastened to the world of immortality and took a share from the realm of the Merciful and with the utmost joy hath attained to eternal life in the everlasting universe.  AB01918

And verily his rib which God attributed to thee, We have in truth raised to an exalted and impregnable station, and now she dwelleth joyfully in the Most Glorious Paradise with her daughter  BH08676

By the life of God, verily He was alive in the Kingdom of God - He heareth and seeth, yet most of the people are heedless. [By God!] He hath adorned himself with the garment of immortality.   BH00923

"For that bird of the garden has taken flight to the eternal gardens and with a sweet spiritual voice has begun to sing melodies and songs upon the highest branches of the Tree of Paradise."  AB07194

these assured souls who have winged their flight to the Supreme Concourse, the horizon of utmost glory, with the wings of attraction, fluttering like birds to reach the threshold of the Gate  AB05934

All blows fall upon the earthly body and elements of dust, not upon the pure soul. All harm reaches the garment of the body, not the spirit filled with spirit and the light of the gathering.  AB06510

Verily, he who hath ascended is today in the seat of truth with the King of the invisible and visible realms...Verily, he who hath set hath risen from My horizon, the Mighty, the Inaccessible.  BH03854

Verily Your servant Rida has left this base, ephemeral world and sought the proximity of Your Most Great Mercy...until he cast off his tattered garments and ascended to the Kingdom of Holiness  AB04574

he who hath ascended to the Most Glorious Kingdom hath attained to the divine presence and meeting, and rejoiceth in the supreme blessing, saying: "Would that I had achieved this in the past!"  AB06521

Although that precious soul has outwardly disappeared, yet in the world above and the most exalted horizon he has attained the greatest gift, found eternal existence, and gained divine bounty   AB11887

Blessed is the soul from whom the Concourse on High shall inhale the fragrance of My garment. She is the object of circumambulation of My angels and the denizens of My mighty, glorious Kingdom.   BH04267

That pure soul now raiseth this call from the highest sphere in the Kingdom of Abha, saying: "O loving companion! I am at the apex of the highest heaven and the summit of the loftiest paradise."  AB08139

If you knew in what horizon they shine, in what heaven they radiate, in what kingdom they are present, and in what gathering they gleam like brilliant lamps, you would surely rejoice and be happy  AB01968

Be assured that thou hast not lost them, and their death was nothing but a transfer from the realm of this mortal world to the loftiest heights. Thou shalt see their faces in the highest heavens   AB01991

His spirit hath ascended unto the atmosphere of nearness and reunion, and entered the Ridvan wherein shine forth the lights of Beauty, and hath come to rest in a station of glory most praiseworthy   BH04224

Departure from this world is, for those who thirst with longing, like arriving at sweet waters, and for lovers who have lost their way, like reaching the Ka'bih of their desire in the Abha Kingdom.  AB08357

Death and life are two gates for the manifestation of divine grace, bounty and mercy. Today is the day of bounty, mercy and generosity. Assuredly the sprinklings of the ocean of mercy shall embrace her  BH03419

At the moment his spirit ascended, the angels of Paradise received him with radiant banners until he entered the Garden of Meeting, the station wherein the Ancient Beauty shineth with mighty splendors.   BH02457

Heretofore he was a captive in this earthly world; but now he has intended to enter into the Kingdom of Eternity and turned unto the Spiritual World and had the hope to receive infinite favors from thee.  AB06673

His days were completed, his breath ceased, he cast off his garment and shed his raiment, returning unto Thee pure, sanctified, naked, sincere, aflame, attracted, yearning, and stirred by Thy fragrances.  AB00970

We have sat together many times before, and we shall sit together again in the Kingdom. We shall laugh together very much in those times, and we shall tell of the things that befell us in the Path of God.   ABU3204

He is now in the Most Glorious Kingdom, beholding, seeing, witnessing and crying out in the loudest voice: "Would that my people knew how my Lord hath forgiven me and made me one of those who are honored!"   AB05955

From this dark and constricted domain, he hath set out for a vast world imperceptible to the senses. He was earthly and became heavenly; he was of this evanescent world and he set foot in the divine world.   AB03690

So when we leave here and go into the Kingdom of the Unseen we will know the uses of the bounties of God given to us in this world. Here we are prepared, and given faculties which are for use in that world.  ABU2406

As many times as possible--at least once a year--you should make it a point to visit his tomb, for his spirit will be exhilarated through the loyalty of the friends, and in the world of God will it be happy.   ABU2341

If you knew in what gathering that pure soul is present, what beauty it beholds, in what kingdom it has attained, upon what throne it is seated, what crown it wears upon its head, and what lamp it has lit...   AB03787

It is the spirit to which importance is to be attached. The difference (between spirit and body) is this, that one will enter the realm of enlightenment whereas the other will fall into the world of darkness.  ABU1893

From this hidden dwelling he hath directed his steps to the heavenly abode and found shelter beneath the protection of the All-Forgiving Lord. He hath witnessed abundant grace and beheld a praiseworthy reward.  AB04005

So, when we leave here and go into the Kingdom of the Unseen, we shall know the use of the Bounties of God given us in this world. Here we are being prepared and given faculties which are for use in that world.  ABU0407

That drop found its way to the Most Great Ocean, and that nightingale took wing to the rose-garden of the Beloved and became the companion and fellow-singer with the birds of holiness in the Paradise of Heaven.  AB09574

Do not think that you have lost both noble branches - God forbid! Rather, you will find them both as two trusts deposited with your Lord, under the protection of His care and providence and His grace and mercy.  AB05405

Love, that potent magnet, will surely re-unite all those whom physical death has parted. But it must be remembered that we can only be in perfect touch with those on the same plane of development as ourselves.   ABU1355

When two people, husband and wife for instance, have been completely united in this life their souls being as one soul, then after one of them has passed away, this union of heart and soul would remain unbroken.   ABU1243

When he ascended, the Concourse on High welcomed him with luminous standards until he entered a station whereof were but a needle's eye to be revealed, all things would cry out: "By God, this is a noble station!"   BH02743

"For thy beloved child has hastened to the embrace of the heavenly Father and has turned his face to the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, and the Lord, the Self-Subsisting has shown him the utmost tenderness and care."  AB05528

These souls, like swift-winged birds, have been freed from the cage of the earthly realm and have soared to the celestial world. They have escaped from the earthly nest and have flown to the nest of the pure world.  AB05921

I hope that through God's grace, that bird of the rose-garden of the love of God - the daughter of Siyyid Muhammad-Rida - has ascended to the gardens of the highest Kingdom and the groves of the Paradise of Refuge.  AB10410

like a fresh and graceful sapling in the Abha Paradise, he ascended to the realm of the Kingdom, that he might grow and develop by the stream of everlasting life in the eternal garden, and yield blossoms and fruits   AB05589

Rabi' has ascended to the exalted Kingdom, and that pure soul has hastened to the highest heaven, shining in that infinite realm with the light of divine pardon and forgiveness, having attained his ultimate desire.   AB02908

Now she hath hastened from the realm of earth to Thy Kingdom, that in the court of the divine Realm she might attain the presence of Thy luminous countenance and find repose beneath the shade of the Tree of Paradise.  AB08052

We will be together in all the worlds of God. You cannot realize here what that means. You cannot imagine it. You can form no conception here in this elemental world of what it is to be with Me in the Eternal Worlds.   ABU3208

As for those souls who did not see the light of truth and departed from this world, they exist but are blind and deaf, unless in that world they open their eyes through God's grace and behold the lights of the Kingdom.  AB06817

Your dear mother ascended to the apex of the Kingdom and is intimate and companion with the spiritual ones. They observe this world and its people, for the veil has been lifted and the curtain removed from their vision.  AB07508

But he could not bear the longing for his Well-Beloved, and in a little while his soul gave up this life and fled to the eternal one, passed into the Heaven of abiding reunion and was immersed beneath an ocean of light.  AB00002

immortalize him in the garden of meeting in the shade of the Lote Tree of the Utmost Boundary, and make him warble like birds upon the blessed tree, grant him the meeting, and intoxicate him with the wine of faithfulness  AB01215

since those two saplings were uprooted from the furnace of this world, they were planted and took root in the eternal divine garden, attaining endless freshness and grace, becoming adorned with leaves, blossoms and fruit  AB06885

"Mirror" is the whole body, the brain in particular. Body has many elements in its composition and these are continually changed during one's lifetime. At dissolution each element is received back to its original source.  ABU2186

when that bird soared to the highest horizon it became a gray falcon and the mightiest eagle, and when that drop passed beyond the realm of contingent being it hastened to the infinite expanse and became a boundless sea.   AB05346

"that bird of clipped wings has grown new wings and flown to another world, and has entered another rose garden and picked other fruits, and has attained the supreme bounty, and has risen like a star from another horizon"  AB01588

As to the union of the spirit with the soul, if the spirit is sustained by the Holy Spirit, it will unite with the soul as the mirror unites with the sun whereby it will manifest its splendor within this stainless mirror.  AB00745

The brilliant star of the spirit must inevitably set from the horizon of contingent existence, and this radiant lamp must assuredly ascend from the glass of existence. It is an irrevocable decree and a definitive judgment.  AB05053

Those souls who have ascended to the Supreme Companion with steadfastness - they witness and are aware. Were We to expound this station, the mountain would soar in its longing to attain the presence of the Causer of causes.   BH04859

They have now taken their flight from this world on the wings of longing and have attained Thy kingdom of glory. Gladden Thou their hearts in the world of the unseen and let them abide beneath the shadow of the tree of hope.  AB06117

"It is a certain fact, absolutely established, that people whether righteous or wicked, the people of light or darkness, pious or mischievous, live on after the death of the body and physical dissolution and disintegration."  ABU0681

O my Lord! Suffer him to abide in a blessed abode and cause him to enter into a retreat of faithfulness and favor him to everlastingly dwell in the heavenly paradise, the precinct of meeting in the shelter of Thy great mercy!  AB07170

"Through conclusive proofs it was established that the body's survival depends on the Holy Spirit's grace. If this grace is withdrawn, the body ceases to exist. But the spirit's survival does not depend on the body's survival"   ABU0282

that leaf hath ascended unto the nursery of the heavenly Lote Tree, and that handmaiden hath hastened unto the court of her Lord, hath turned away from the coarse clay of separation, and found her way unto the palace of reunion  AB10005

My dear sister Margaret has hastened from this world to Your world, and grown weary of the mortal realm to soar to the divine realm. She was a bird without nest or shelter who longed for a home and refuge in the celestial realm.  AB05245

transport me from this world unto the court of Thy forgiveness in the realm hereafter, for I yearn with all my soul for the privilege of reaching and attaining the gate of Thy oneness in the other world that followeth this life.  AB06007

Death in one station is a door unto attainment and a path unto the presence of the Beloved. Blessed is the soul that at the time of its ascension soars on the wings of longing and yearning and makes for the Most Exalted Companion.  BH03165

That drop has hastened to the boundless ocean, and that wandering bird has winged its flight to the nest and shelter of the Supreme Concourse. You will find him in the gathering of divine manifestation in the Kingdom of Mysteries.  AB00224

your mother has hastened from this world to the infinite realm... The fruit of life was attained, the tree of hopes yielded its bounty. However much longer she might have lived, no better result than this could have been achieved.  AB08044

This divine bird flew away to the rose-garden of the Merciful and that plant of humanity hastened to the garden of the Kingdom of El-ABHA. That drop returned to the Most Great Sea and that ray betook herself to the Most Great Orb.   AB07223

And then he returned to his place in the dust, to a house where none would visit him again and no soul would accompany him and no companion would befriend him and no merciful one would show him mercy and no lamp would illuminate him  BH02780

We were very saddened by the passing of Richard Potter, but that nightingale of the Kingdom has flown to the divine rose garden, that drop has returned to the boundless ocean, and that wanderer has ascended to the original homeland.  AB01173

"Then do something that will keep you from dying; that will instead, day by day make you more alive, and bring you everlasting life. According to the words of His Holiness Christ, those who enter the Kingdom of God will never die."   ABU3224

In these days, the Holy Ones of the Realm of Glory, dwelling in the all-highest Paradise, yearn to return unto this world, and be of some service to the Cause of Baha'u'llah and prove their servitude to the Threshold of Abha Beauty.  AB11454

He has hastened from this earthly dustheap to the soul-refreshing divine expanse, and from the physical confinement has taken flight to the vast spiritual realm, ascending from this perishable abode to the holy divine dwelling place.  AB03498

Give this dear servant a dwelling in Your glorious habitation and grant this helpless fallen one a home in the vicinity of Your mercy. Let him drink from the cup of meeting with You and give him an abode beneath the Tree of Paradise.  AB00518

When his pure soul took flight to the horizon of the Kingdom, he found rest beneath the blessed Lote-Tree and drank the wine of love from the cup-bearer of the Concourse on High, and tasted the honey and sugar of the divine presence.   AB07383

When man dies, his relation with the body ceases...If the mirror be broken the sun does not die. The body is the temporary mirror; the spiritual soul suffers no change, no more than the sun does remaining eternally in its own station.  ABU0541

Now he has cast off the garment of existence in this world and hastened naked and unclothed to the realm of no-space, that he might enter the gathering of the Supreme Concourse and become intoxicated with the wine of union and meeting.  AB04516

Death, for those who are assured and nigh unto God, is the gate of mercy, for they advance from the limitations of the world to a station which is the dawning-place of joy and sanctified above the comprehension of those who comprehend.   BH05197

I beseech the bounty of the Abha Beauty to make all the old friends close companions in His Kingdom, so that a union may be achieved that has no separation following it, and an intimacy may occur that brings no estrangement in its wake.  AB05223

But blessed souls find this world a prison, and from this prison they hasten to the celestial realm. For the birds of the garden of truth, this world is a cage, and these birds fly from this cage to the rose-garden of the All-Merciful.   AB03203

The essence of the human soul is clarified from material substances and purified from the embodiment of physical things. It is exclusively luminous; it has no body; it is a dazzling pencil of light; it is a celestial orb of brightness.   ABU3067

Praise be to God Who hath made death a door to His presence, a means of attaining His reunion, and a cause for the life of His servants. Through it He hath revealed the mysteries of His Book and that which was treasured in His knowledge.   BH00976

That luminous ray hath returned to the Sun of Truth, that tiny drop hath reached the Most Great Ocean, and that flower of the divine rose-garden hath been restored to the paradise of the All-Merciful and the garden of the Kingdom of Abha.   AB05055

Be not grieved at Mr. Moore's ascension to the Abha Kingdom. Though this world be vast and beautiful, it is like a cage to the birds of the Abha Paradise, for this world compared to that world is a prison, even if it be a delightful plain.  AB11182

When the human soul soareth out of this transient heap of dust and riseth into the world of God, then veils will fall away, and verities will come to light, and all things unknown before will be made clear, and hidden truths be understood.   AB02947


Make these servants radiant and cause them to be singers in the rose garden of the highest realm. Make them musicians in the heavenly feast, players in the arena of nearness and reunion, and ones who recline upon the eternal pillow of glory.  AB07219

The meaning is not that the neglectful souls will be non-existent. For example, the mineral kingdom in comparison with the vegetable kingdom is lifeless; also the existence of the animal kingdom in comparison with that of the human is death.  AB07139

Solace her eyes by beholding Thy beauty in Thine All-Glorious Kingdom, attire her in the vesture of holiness, adorn her temple with the lights of sanctity, and make her a sign of Thy forgiveness and a banner of Thy favor and loving-kindness.   AB07163

For though that assured leaf was separated from the tree of contingent being, she became connected to the blessed Tree. And though that bird took flight from its earthly nest, it found its dwelling and shelter in the nest of the All-Merciful.  AB10616

Each of the martyred souls is seated upon the throne of eternal life in the Abha Kingdom, and their relatives shall wear the crown of glory throughout all ages and cycles, clothed in the robe of distinction and become the pride of all creation.  AB01111

Therefore if a bird from among the thankful birds hastens to the eternal gardens, or if a celestial soul races to that spirit-increasing heavenly expanse, it has been freed from cage and prison and taken up residence in the eternal rose garden.   AB06621

Verily Thy servant, who was attracted by the breezes wafting from the gardens of Thy divinity and was set ablaze by the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy mercy, has ascended unto the kingdom of Thy oneness and soared unto the realm of Thy sanctity.  AB08410

One of the special bounties of this Dispensation is that the sun of divine favour will shine upon the parents of any soul who hath recognized the Dayspring of the Cause of God, even though they themselves may not have attained to His recognition.   BH01972

Your beloved child hath departed from this fleeting world to the eternal Kingdom and soared from the dust heap of this world unto the divine rose garden. It hath been freed from the dungeon of trials and ascended unto the Court of the Abha Beauty.  AB02820

"That child is your trust within the charge of God. She was a child when she went, but you shall find her full grown in the Kingdom of God. You shall find her mature. You shall not find her there as a child. You shall find her perfect and mature."  ABU1018

That world is eternal and everlasting. When once the human spirit ascendeth, it traverseth all the worlds of God and will never regress - unless its purpose be to indicate something in this world, and even this is not a true return and regression.  AB00282

Rejoice, and again rejoice, for thou art freed from this mortal world and hast drawn nigh unto the court of the All-Possessing, the All-Sufficing...Thou hast discovered the secrets of the Incomparable Lord and found thy way to the celestial realm.  AB10035

when her spirit soars to the heights of joy, You may cause her to enter the highest mansions, give her to drink from the cup of gladness and pure wine whose mixture is of camphor, and make her hear the melodies of the birds in the garden of delight  AB08479

I beseech God to grant you an exalted station and a lofty seat of truth, and to spread through you perfumed fragrances in those regions until hearts are stirred by your remembrance in that luminous spot which is associated with the Supreme Horizon   AB05015

that everything was created in pairs, but that this earth was the flaming sword and sometimes, even if affinities met, they could not be happy for various reasons connected with the imperfect conditions here; but in spirit they were related forever   ABU2647

In truth, these are days wherein man, from one perspective, seeketh death, for after ascension he attaineth unto the verses of the Supreme Pen; and from another perspective, he desireth life in the hope that some service might be manifested from him.  BH00009

Those two birds of the nest of immortality have taken flight to the highest realm on high and have become intimate companions in the rose-garden of the Abha Kingdom, engaged in praise and glorification, occupied with divine laudations and attributes.  AB05534

He was freed from the nonexistence of life and sought eternal existence. Like a wise bird he became detached from the snare and grain, and flew to the rose garden of mystery...He tasted the poison of nonexistence - let him drink the cup of existence.  AB06461

"Praise be to God, she hath attained to the desire of her heart and hath ascended to the Kingdom of ABHA! Happiness dependeth on the spiritual glad-tidings and not upon material means. It is found in the Kingdom of ABHA and not in this mortal world."   AB00661

And when thou turnest thy face towards the everlasting horizon from this contingent and ephemeral world, may the hosts of victory surrounded thee, may the trumpets and banners of glory proclaim thee, and may thou attain the Kingdom of the All-Glorious.  AB03325

The little girl lamented is in the divine Rose-garden in the highest happiness, delight, cheerfulness and gratification. This is the day of rejoicing and the hour of ecstasy! This is the season of the dead arising from the graves and gathering together!  AB07482

Just as departing from the womb and entrance into this world is one of the eternal blessings, so likewise is leaving this world and entering the world of souls one of the greatest gifts of the Merciful Lord and the supreme goal of the spiritually minded.  AB02108

Therefore, grieve not when that divine bird soars to the vast expanse of the All-Merciful. You shall see that bird making its nest upon the highest branch of the Tree of Life, singing songs of praise and glorification in the gardens of the Lord of Signs.  AB10193

We, in truth, were with him at the end of his days in this world and at the beginning of his days in the presence of the most exalted Companion. At the moment he ascended the angels and the Spirit received him as bidden by God, the quickener of the dead.   BH09642

Then he ascended unto Thee and rose to the seat of truth in Thy Kingdom. O Lord! Grant him shelter in the proximity of Thy great mercy and cause him to dwell in the shade of the Tree of Paradise and give him to drink from the Kawthar of meeting with Thee   AB07166

"The ultimate truth is that physical life was transformed into divine life, metaphorical existence was changed into true existence. You will find those radiant faces in the divine rose garden, you will see those incomparable saplings by the divine stream."  AB04970

If meeting face to face was not possible in this world, we shall meet in the next world and find companionship in another nest. The meeting of this world is temporary and does not endure, but the meeting in the eternal world is everlasting and has no end.   AB05243

'My soul will escape like a bird at liberty from this earthly cage of my body. Then shall I be free. Now am I in chains. These bonds shall be broken... These are the spirits of those martyred ones, freed from their bodies. Now they enjoy eternal liberty.'   ABU0092

"This mundane life has no importance whatsoever. It is our hope that in the divine world we shall find eternal union and seek everlasting fellowship. Importance lies in this fact. This station is obtained through faith and self-sacrifice in the path of God."  AB02000

"She abandoned the earthly cage and flew toward the bower of the upper world; so that, like unto a nightingale of significances, she may, in that divine rose-garden, engage in praising, glorifying and sanctifying the True One, with the most marvelous melody."  AB01262

Like a bird in the cage of this body he was captive and confined. This cage was broken and that bird took flight, becoming intimate and harmonious with the divine birds in the celestial garden. You will find him in that garden in the utmost joy and fragrance.  AB02970

we must succeed in rendering such service that when we ascend, we may enter His Abha Kingdom with a radiant face, a soul like a rose garden, a joyful spirit, a perfumed breath, and an illumined vision, and find our place beneath the shade of His merciful Tree   AB01715

That bird of the garden of resignation hath made her nest upon the threshold of eternity and found peace and tranquility. Thou shouldst think of the peace she hath attained, of the tranquility of her soul, and of the pardon and forgiveness of the All-Merciful.  AB02458

They see all as it affects the spirit. A great joy, a great sorrow, a sin, or a good deed: as these things darken or cloud the soul, or cause it to rise into greater light, so they see every earth event that touches you for good or ill, reflected in your soul.  ABU3249

Answer to the first question: The spirits of the children of the Kingdom, after separation from this body, ascend to the eternal world of existence. But if the question is about location, know that the world of existence is one world, but with different ranks. For example, the mineral existence has its rank, but the mineral being has no knowledge of the plant world - it is completely unaware, rather according to its condition denies it. Similarly, the plant being has no knowledge of the animal world - it is completely heedless and unaware, for the animal rank is above the plant rank, and the plant according to its condition is veiled from and denies the animal world, even though animal, plant and mineral all exist in the world of existence. Likewise the animal is completely unaware of the human rational faculty which comprehends universals and discovers the mysteries of creation - how one can sit in the East and organize and arrange affairs in the West, discover mysteries, while in Europe discover America, while on Earth discover the realities of the stars. The animal is completely unaware of this discovering rational faculty which comprehends universals - rather it denies it. Similarly the people of the material world are completely unaware of and deny the Kingdom, saying "Where is the Kingdom and where is the Lord of the Kingdom?" These souls are like minerals and plants that are completely unaware of the animal and human worlds - they neither see nor find it. Yet mineral, plant, animal and human all exist in the world of existence. AB00409

Answer to the second question: Divine tests are in this world, not in the world of the Kingdom. AB00409

Similarly with the gifts and blessings which God showers upon man in this world. This world is not fit and has not the capacity for the manifestation of these gifts and blessings. But when man enters the World of the Kingdom, then those gifts will be manifested.  ABU1861

One transformation lies ahead, and that is God's irrevocable decree. It has seized and continues to seize every soul. If this transformation, which they have called death, occurs for the sake of God, no excellence can match it and no station can compare with it.   BH08023

Outwardly it brings forth agitation and produces sorrow, anxiety and grief. However, by God's knowledge, it is the greatest means for reunion and the supreme cause for attainment - that is, the attainment of the lights of the revelations of His Will and Purpose.   BH00464

"He watches over his own affairs and is aware of his people. If he observes no goodness in those associated with him, he will surely raise his voice in complaint in the Supreme Concourse, and that complaint will surely have its effect and return upon his people."  BH05637

These souls are, in this world, in the utmost joy and gladness, and when their spirits ascend unto God, the denizens of Paradise shall welcome them with hosts from the Concourse on High, shall pray for them and shall usher them into a Paradise of glory and bounty.  BH05400

death is the means of deliverance from the wastes of separation and the cause of entry into the gardens of reunion. It is the source of freedom from the confines of this earthly dust-heap and the reason for soaring in the expansive atmosphere of the divine world.   AB06922

that noble one has been freed from injury and harm and grief and sorrow, and has hastened to the higher realm... his ascension became his release from the bonds of this world and he reached the vast expanse of the All-Merciful and found rest in the infinite realm   AB05287

The relationship of the next world to this world is like the relationship of this world to the world of the womb. The world of the womb in comparison to this world is an imagination, a dream; and this earthly world in comparison to the abode hereafter is the same.  AB01459

Thine illustrious son like unto the birds of holiness sought the loftiest summit and soared to the paradise of the All-Glorious. In the Blessed Tree he hath made his nest, and with sundry melodies, he chanteth and singeth upon the branches of the Sadratu'l-Muntaha.   AB06969



She shall soon see that which will gladden her heart and bring joy to her soul in those worlds which God has sanctified beyond people's comprehension in this first life, but which they shall understand in the next life after the spirit's transition to the great world   AB02492

Though that peerless sapling was cut off from this contingent meadow, it was planted in the divine garden and transferred to the supreme paradise of the All-Merciful. That lamp was lit in the niche of the Abha Kingdom and kindled in the glass of the court of grandeur.   AB06040

But his spirit flew from this world into the world beyond and the spirit of thy father soared toward the heavenly realm. Be thou not sad or unhappy for these two heavenly birds flew toward the rose-garden of eternity and attained to the infinite immensity of the Kingdom.  AB07822

We hope that through the ancient and renewed bounty of the Glorious Lord, we shall all soon be gathered in that assembly of the All-Merciful, abide beneath that sheltering shade, drink from the spring of Tasnim, and enter the court of the people of the highest paradise.   AB01863

Such souls exist and are not lost, are prosperous not buried, are rising not setting, are ascending not falling. Through the window of nothingness they have hastened to the world of being, and from the aperture of evanescence they have found the rays of the Sun of eternity.  AB01849

The life of this world is but confused dreams, having neither station nor happiness of consequence. But the supreme happiness comes after ascension to the Supreme Companion and entry into the eternal Paradise, the most exalted Heaven, the Presence of witnessing and meeting.  AB08995

And now, in the divine realm and the holy spiritual atmosphere and the kingdom of the All-Merciful, they have attained the honor of meeting, and dwell near the most great mercy, uttering Would that my people knew how my Lord hath forgiven me and made me of the honored ones!  AB10984

Although ye are the foremost among the ardent lovers and afflicted with the fire of separation, yet praise be to God, after ascension from this mortal world, eternal reunion is ordained and perpetual existence in the paradise of everlasting meeting is decreed and established.  AB04130

Verily, those who died during the Dispensation of Muhammad until what was decreed was decreed until that Day were in the intermediate world with their Lord. On that Day God shall raise them up that they may appear before God their Lord and be numbered among those who bow down.  BB00004

Verily We were present when his spirit ascended to the Most Exalted Companion. Blessed is he and joy be unto him! He is of them that heard the sound of the wings of the Bird of the Throne from this atmosphere which God hath sanctified above the mention of all who are on earth.   BH00411

They have been freed from the snare of the earthly world so that they may find eternal life in the heavenly realm and hasten to the shade of the Tree of Hope, making their nests and dwellings upon the branches of immortality in the Most Glorious Paradise of the Supreme Kingdom   AB02939

As the spirit of man lives forever after casting off this elemental frame, it is, like all existing things, undoubtedly capable of progress, and thus one may pray for a departed soul to advance, to be forgiven, or to be made the recipient of divine favours, bounties and grace.   AB00399

Today is the dawning-point of days and the beginning of times, and likewise praiseworthy deeds which proceed from souls that are well-pleasing and accepted shall be the beginning of deeds, inasmuch as that deed hath taken place in the Days of God and appeared in its proper place.  BH08113

She yearneth at the threshold of Thy holiness to be honored with Thy kindness and bountiful favor. She hath returned unto Thee, trusting, submissive, and pleasing, hoping to gain admittance into the paradise of Thy wealth and to abide forever in the luxuriant, dense-treed Garden.  AB05993

That rose hath hastened unto the rose-garden of God, that bird of the dawn hath flown unto bower of mysteries, that wayfarer in the wilderness of separation hath sped to the sanctuary of the Daystar of the world, and that thirsty fish hath found its way unto the ocean of grandeur.  AB08510

Physical death shall not prevent those who have turned to Him, whether men or women, from attaining eternal life, for after their ascension to their own kingdom, the spirits of such souls shall find themselves adorned with the most beauteous raiment and in the most exalted station   BH08888


In the verdant meadow of the divine garden, like sacred birds on the highest branches of the garden of fellowship, with the most wondrous melodies and most delicate songs, he is engaged in praising and glorifying and giving thanks for the favors of the Ever-Living, the Undying One.   AB03214


"His condition there, in the world of spirit, is the same as it was here. While here, his eyes were not opened to the real spiritual light, neither did he comprehend the real Truth of god. Thus, when he left the earth, his spiritual eyes were not opened, neither his spiritual ears."   ABU0931

that bird of the garden of evanescence has flown to the nest of immortality, that sweet-singing nightingale has ascended to the gardens of Paradise, that thirsty one has reached the fountain of life, and that yearning soul has hastened to the presence of the Luminary of the horizons   AB11735

These children abide under the shadow of the Divine Providence, and, as they have committed no sin and are unsullied by the defilements of the world of nature, they will become the manifestations of divine bounty and the glances of the eye of divine mercy will be directed towards them.  AB01631

Although this worthless world is not a place of rest and repose - rather, one's permanence and stability are in the Kingdom of the All-Merciful - all attention must be directed there. Otherwise, soon we shall all beat the drum of departure and journey from this world to another realm.   AB06983

Your honored companion, that holy martyr, has raised his tent in the new Kingdom, and two free sons-in-law have unfurled their banner in the Supreme Concourse... those noble souls are seated and established upon the throne of everlasting sovereignty in the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.   AB02397

That one enamored with the face of the Beloved and enchanted by His musk-laden locks has blossomed like a flower in the mystic garden of the realm of lights, hastened from the world of dust to the pure realm, taken flight from the dark plane and pitched his tent in the luminous world.   AB02562

for that nightingale has flown to the most great and glorious garden, and that yearning one has hastened to the gathering place of the manifestation of the Luminary of the horizons. That one who thirsted for the sweet waters of the Euphrates has entered the eternal sea of divine bounty.  AB08953

Two letters from you have returned to the Book, two birds have winged their flight to the most exalted nest, and two souls have turned toward the Most Glorious Homeland. By the life of God! They both gaze from the Supreme Horizon and hear what the Tongue of Bounty hath spoken at this moment.  BH02090

when the spirit of man awakens to the consciousness of the Spirit of God and becomes imbued with the Light of the Sun of Truth, that Light in him is of the Spirit of God and is immortal with God. But the man who is not endowed with this Light remains as a lamp whose light may be extinguished.   ABU2034

Those blessed souls who depart from this world and hasten to the other realm, having been confirmed by the power of the Kingdom, must needs exert an influence throughout the worlds of existence, and, through their intercession, become the cause of bounty and confirmation from the Divine Unity.  AB09524

As for progress in the world after death, know that after death is the divine world, and progress therein is possible, but through divine bestowal rather than human striving. That is, progress is possible purely through grace, for advancement in stations depends entirely on grace and bestowal.   AB00430

That life and death were the same, there was little change; and as human beings helped each other on the earthly plane, they could still continue to show affection and give support to each other after the apparent separation. That in heaven there was no descent possible, only unbroken progress.  ABU0715

But he has left behind this nether world and soared to the Supreme Horizon. He was released from the earthly realm and ascended to the center of the Kingdom. He was established upon the throne of everlasting glory and entered the assembly of Transfiguration, while submerged in the sea of lights.  AB07830

These pure souls have been released from this prison of dust and have winged their flight to Thy world. Now they have flown to the world of mystery in order to build a nest and haven in the precincts of Thy mercy upon the Blessed Tree, where they are singing and chanting with wondrous melodies.   AB04543

"They are in the rose garden of divine unity, entranced by the beauty of the Glorious Lord. They are immersed in the sea of bounty and have attained the best of companions in the Kingdom of Meeting. They have entered beneath the shadow of His presence and arrived in the paradise of immortality."  AB06387

since that thousand divine rose gardens ascended to the spiritual rose garden and the paradise of spiritual joy, and in the Most Great Paradise upon the branches of the All-Merciful's mercy warbles and sings "Would that my people knew how my Lord hath forgiven me and made me of the honored ones"   AB06960

Individual consciousness is realized after birth here. This is the matrix world for the soul, even as the womb was the matrix world for the body or vehicle. Birth into consciousness of another world begins here, a world for which this physical and material one is but the preparation and foundation.  ABU3236


In this corporeal world, despite the separation of bodies, friends remain friends and intimate with each other. In the eternal world, then, which is the world of divine unity and heavenly oneness, friendship and spiritual intimacy are naturally among the essential requisites of that sanctified world.  AB09920

Dost thou imagine that he is lost? Nay, by My life! Rather, he hath fallen asleep and risen in haste unto the Kingdom of his Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Dost thou imagine that he is dead? Nay, by His most truthful Self! He is alive in both worlds, beholding the Glory from the Supreme Horizon   BH03712

"Death shall not overtake those who are certain of the Cause of the Most Merciful, nor shall mortality comprehend them. Rather it is but a transfer from one world to another, and verily it is greater than the throne and more vast than the divine seat. Its heaven is grace and its earth is loving-kindness."   BH04537

As for the animal spirit, which is shared between man and animal, it is perishable in itself and becomes non-existent when bodies perish and forms dissolve, for it is of material elements. Since its substance is subject to non-existence and changeable through the passage of time, it must inevitably perish.  BH01497

That drop has returned to the ocean and that ray has gone back to the sun. That thirsty one has reached the eternal spring of life and that fish has become immersed in the divine ocean of forgiveness. Though he has set from the horizon of this world, yet he has shined like a star from the eternal horizon.   AB03754

We both are likewise destined to take our flight one day unto the world beyond; and in the heavenly realm and world of the Kingdom thou wilt behold his luminous countenance and attain unto everlasting reunion with him. Be thou assured that he hath not perished; he liveth still, but in the world of purity.   AB04358

she hastened from the mortal furnace to the life-giving expanse of the immortal rose garden, and ascended from the dark hiding place to the shelter of divine favor, and flew from the earthly ash-heap to the original divine homeland, and reached from the place of limitation to the placeless realm of oneness   BH06504

Therefore the end of his life became the beginning of favors, and he hastened firm and steadfast from this ephemeral world to the sacred threshold of the All-Glorious Beauty. He departed from the earthly realm to the pure world and ascended from the lowest degrees to the highest summit of the Abha Kingdom.   AB05163

After leaving this world, there is also hell and paradise. No one can understand this hell and heaven except through his innate consciousness, and to explain this, we must speak in parable as did Jesus Christ, for while we are in this world, it is impossible to know and understand what is in the next world.  ABU0370

Consequently the blessed souls do not wish to be established in this wilderness of a world. They wing their way towards the supreme heights and like unto the heavenly birds long to build their nests in that celestial universe. Thy respected husband hastened and reached the Boundless and Limitless Immensity.   AB00845

He hath indeed departed from this narrow and gloomy world which is darkened by unlimited sorrow, unto the Kingdom which is spacious, illumined, joyous and beautiful. God delivered him from this dark well and promoted him unto the Supreme Height! He gave him wings whereby he soared to the heaven of happiness.   AB07092

I swear by the Day-Star of the morn of Truth that thy son hath attained a station such as no pen can depict, nor words adequately describe. His habitation is the realm on high, his associates and companions are sanctified and detached souls, and his sustenance the imperishable and hidden blessings of the Lord.  BH03804

This news greatly saddened me, yet I was consoled that that honored lady was freed from the prison of this dusty world and hastened to the divine realm. She was a drop that reached the ocean, a ray that returned to the sun, a bird that took flight to the divine rose garden, a star that entered the solar sphere.  AB00537

Make her embraced by forgiveness, befriended by the holy birds in the world of spirits, free from physical needs, successful in reaching Your holy threshold in the eternal realm, sanctified from the burden of sins in the sphere of prosperity and success...grant her a station in the seat of truth near Your mercy.  AB00927

It is not meant that after physical death those who are dead spiritually will cease to exist; but, as existence in the mineral kingdom is dead and lifeless in comparison with the life of a man, so different is the condition of those who have not attained to spiritual life, from that of those who are truly alive.   ABU2170

The splendor and beauty of the gems of the Most Great Guidance will be revealed after the soul taketh leave of this fragile and gloomy frame and ascendeth to the limitless space of the celestial world. At present its worth is unknown, but at the hour of the soul's ascension, its worth will become clear and evident.  AB06376

Those who have passed on through death, have a sphere of their own. It is not removed from ours; their work--the work of the Kingdom--is ours; but it is sanctified from what we call 'time and place.' Those who have ascended have different attributes from those who are still on earth, yet there is no real separation.   ABU0975

Seeking her deliverance, she flew toward the apex of salvation until Thou didst grant her wish in the precincts of Thy most great mercy. Lord! Increase her loftiness and exaltation, her felicity and greatness, and perfume her tomb with the copious rain pouring down from the heaven of Thy forgiveness and Thy pardon.  AB08485

His enslaved soul, fixed in the fetters of time and space, can be but imperfectly illumined by the Cosmic Spirit; after his physical death he will continue to exist in the world beyond and will have the chance of purification, not on another earth or on another planet, but in the uncountable spiritual worlds of God.  ABU0170

His spirit flew on the wing of success to the highest horizon, making for the Ultimate Lote Tree, until it found its nest in the blessed tree and sang with varied melodies upon the branches of the Tree of Eternity, immersed in the oceans of light, beholding the Mighty, the Compelling One, and discovering mysteries.   AB00849

Not suppose that thou hast lost him. The veil shall be lifted and thou shalt behold his face illumined in the Supreme Concourse. Just as God, the Exalted, hath said, 'Him will we surely quicken to a happy life.' Supreme importance should be attached, therefore, not to this first creation but rather to the future life.  AB03896

Without doubt Thou hast ordained for every soul after its death in Thy paradise that which none of Thy creation can comprehend, and if it be not a believer, then in Thy fire with that which none of Thy creation can comprehend. But Thou hast made the pivot of what comes after death the conditions before it in that world.  BB00208

Her soul soared up to the summit of sanctity, under the shelter of the mercy of thy Lord, the Mighty, where the concourse of the chosen ones are assembled around it in the Lofty Paradise, and the angels of mercy are blessing it and are speaking its praise while their faces are smiling because of her ascension to heaven.   AB03592

I swear by the Manifest Beauty that the Concourse on High were gladdened by his radiant countenance and he became seated and established upon the mighty throne. His face in that gathering of the All-Merciful is bright and luminous, and his sweet fragrance is diffused in the nostrils of the people of the eternal Paradise.   AB02946

Although your dear child has passed from this mortal world, yet praise be to God, he lives in the eternal realm. You will find him in the Kingdom of God...This is not death but life, this is not destruction but salvation, for that precious child has hastened to the Kingdom [of Paradise] in utmost spirituality and radiance.  AB09363

His purpose in wishing the raising of the dead was the acquisition of eternal life, not this elemental earthly life. His intention was the appearance of all the conditions and grades of existence in His Own blessed Self so that by the breath of the Holy Spirit He might be living eternally even after His evanescence and end.  AB04958

Thy handmaiden ?iya' [...] hath ascended unto Thee. O Lord! Her tranquil soul was a luminous flame, from whose heart radiated the lights of faith, who was intoxicated with the wine of certitude, whose eyes were solaced by witnessing the proof and evidence, whose consciousness was attracted by the spirit and sweet fragrance.  AB06496

They were called away from the temporary and transferred to the eternal; they abandoned this material existence and entered the portals of the spiritual world. Foregoing the pleasures and comforts of the earthly, they now partake of a joy and happiness far more abiding and real, for they have hastened to the Kingdom of God.   ABU0342

Thou didst answer his prayer and deliver him from this dark abyss and raise him to the supreme horizon and admit him into the highest Paradise and honor him with the vision of meeting Thee and grant him intimacy through love and faithfulness and gather him with souls from whose faces light radiates in the world of mysteries.  AB00884

Although the true graves of the divine friends are the hearts of the Supreme Concourse and the palaces of the Most Glorious Kingdom - meaning their bodies are buried in the dust while their spirits are in the Kingdom of the Lord of Lords, and even in the center of the earth their pure bodies are encompassed by radiant lights.   AB01233

The progress of the human spirit in the divine world, after its connection with the physical body has been severed, is either purely through the grace and bounty of the Lord, or through the intercession and prayers of other human souls, or through the significant contributions and charitable deeds which are offered in its name.  AB01631

Miss Una Grick, Mrs. Alice Blackman, Mrs. Katherine Bizarro, and Mrs. Dr. Ruth Newland were blessed souls. Praise be to God, they ascended with firmness and steadfastness. They soared from this narrow, dark world to a vast and luminous realm. They were delivered from every grief and sorrow and attained eternal joy and gladness.   AB02712

Although your precious child has passed from this mortal world, yet praise be to God, he lives in the eternal realm. You will find him in the Kingdom of God. This is not death but life, this is not destruction but salvation, for that precious child has hastened to the Kingdom [of Paradise] in the utmost spirituality and radiance.  AB09363

Thus the end of life for the friends is joy upon joy, gladness upon gladness, attainment to the favors of the Forgiving Lord and arrival at a praiseworthy station. This is why for them death is life, and passing away is like a garden full of blossoms and leaves. Extinction is the essence of eternality and loss is the essence of finding.   AB04747

Know that the state of the soul after death is like awakening from a dream. It will be conscious of all past states. A well-known tradition declareth: The people are asleep, and when they pass away, they will awaken. It is also stated in the Qur'an: Thou wast heedless of that; but We have removed thy veil, and keen is thy sight this day.  AB09864

The angels drawn nigh welcomed thee from the highest paradise until they reached thee between earth and heaven... We took thee with the hand of mercy and caused thee to ascend to a station which We had ordained for thee... Therefore, walk thou through the levels of paradise and partake of the fruits of the holy Lote-Trees as thou pleasest   BH03645

"As to those blessed souls: they will, even as the doves of holiness, wing their flight unto the Concourse on high and in the meads of the Abha Kingdom will burst into melodious songs, whose strains of sanctity will exhilarate every attentive ear, and whose wondrous accents will be heard at all times by the people of abiding faithfulness."  AB01430

Just as the soul of an animal after death (i.e. after the disintegration of its body) can not enter the body of a plant, so also can the soul of man after his death not enter the body of an animal. No, his material nature comes from the greatest distance of emanation from God, for the material is the farthest pole in the curve of emanation.  ABU0017

As regards the souls who do not receive the Breath of the Holy Spirit they remain in the world of imperfection, they are as though blind, deaf, without intelligence and surrounded by darkness. They do not attain to the world of Light. Such souls although they have life, yet are as dead, as lost compared with the souls in the world of Light.   ABU1477

As for thy question concerning those righteous souls who passed away ere they heard the Call of this Revelation, know thou that those who ascended unto God ere they heard this Call, but who followed the precepts of Christ and walked in the Straight Path - these verily attained, after ascending to the Divine Kingdom, unto the Refulgent Light.  AB11002

God, exalted be His glory, in accordance with His consummate wisdom, hath opened the gate of reunion for some through His name, the Munificent, and the key of His name, the All-Bounteous. Blessed are they who have attained! And among these, He hath ordained death and departure from this world as one of the gates leading to the meeting with Him.   BH01225

Grieve not for what befell him. He hath ascended unto heaven and reached the ultimate goal. Thy Lord, verily, is the Almighty, the Powerful. Thy Lord hath forgiven him as a bounty from His presence and purified him from the defilement of the world. He is in the highest companionship, speaking and saying: "Praise be unto Thee, O God of the worlds!"   BH03340

Truly, I say unto thee, wert thou informed of that felicity which thy babe hath attained in the worlds of God, thy breast would be dilated and thy soul would be purified. Truly, I say unto thee, thy child will be fostered from the breast of the gift of God in the Exalted Kingdom and will be nursed in the bosom of mercy in the Supreme World of God.   AB06531

And now, in perfect fellowship and unity, they walk in that holy and blessed land and those luminous and spiritual realms. And the dwellers of the pavilion of glory each utter this most blessed and exalted word: "The day of joy has come! The loved ones in the divine garden, with spiritual souls, are engaged in eternal pleasure and everlasting delight!"  BH06418

At last, while supplicating and with the utmost humility, he ascended unto the Supreme Horizon. What blessing is greater than this? If a person departeth from this world in such a state, it is life, not death; it is discovering existence, not giving it up; it is becoming illumined, not being extinguished; it is remaining in thoughts, not being forgotten.  AB06038

"Every soul that returns from this transitory world to the eternal realm, according to their merit and capacity - if divine justice encompasses them, 'O what regret for us!' But in the realm of grace, merit and capacity and worthiness are not considered... After ascension, progress and pardon depend on grace, but descent is impossible and inconceivable."  AB01031

As to thy question concerning the spirit and its movement, know thou that pure and sanctified spirits, detached from earthly conditions, have been and ever shall be the educators of the world of being. By the Life of God! After their ascension, they exercise supreme influence and power. They have ever been, and shall remain, all-encompassing and supreme.   BH00722

That radiant star has set from this world below that it may rise effulgently from the Supreme Horizon. He has arisen from a horizon that knows no setting and has hastened unto a realm that is infinite. He has been detached from this world below and has attained into Everlasting Life. He has ascended from this gloomy world and hastened to the Center of Light.   AB01490

Thou hast asked about the passing of the soul of a believer. Know that each thing eventually returneth to its origin, for that whereby each thing existeth is with God in His paradise, and delightful is His grace. He returneth its body to clay, its essential body to the gates, and its essential self to the Manifestation of praise, which is the Daystar of Truth.  BB00551

God willing, after leaving this earthly body thou shalt take up thine abode in the divine world nigh unto the Beloved of all mankind. Thou shalt exchange the venom of separation for the honey of reunion, heal cruelty's blows with the balm of faith, hasten from the desert of remoteness unto the shore of nearness, and be set free from this dustbin of deprivation.  AB08860

As to the soul of man after death, it remains in the degree of purity to which it has evolved during life in the physical body, and after it is freed from the body it remains plunged in the ocean of God's Mercy. From the moment the soul leaves the body and arrives in the Heavenly World, its evolution is spiritual, and that evolution is: The approaching unto God.  ABU0626

O thou tranquil soul! Repair unto thy Lord, pleased and pleasing unto Him departed this earthly home, and winged his flight unto the kingdom of eternity, the Divine home Honor his last resting-place, and grant him an exalted seat of truth, transported by the wine of reunion in the Most Sublime Paradise, immersed in the oceans of lights in the Kingdom of Mysteries  AB02861

The believer attains to eternal life in this world, but the unbeliever is eternally veiled from the presence of God. Eternal life is knowledge of God and eternal punishment is deprivation of the Sight of God. According to the statements in the Gospel, those who do not believe are eternally condemned, while those who are believers will be in eternal joy and happiness.  ABU0584

"Especially that bird of the garden of faithfulness who has taken flight to the Abha paradise and made its nest upon the branches of the divine Lote-Tree in the holy gardens. So if you are grief-stricken and heartbroken over this calamity, know that she is in the utmost joy and delight, engaged in praise and glorification and sanctification near the Most Great Mercy."   AB05723

Though that luminous star set from the horizon of contingent being, yet it rose from the dawning-place of the placeless realm. And though that divine lamp disappeared from the physical lantern, yet it became illumined in the glass of the All-Merciful. Though that celestial bird took flight from its earthly nest, praise be to God it found its dwelling in the divine nest.  AB07541


Immerse them in the depths of the seas of pardon and forgiveness, admit them into the kingdom of grace and favor, and crown them with the crown of bounty in a seat of truth with Thee, O Mighty and Loving One. Admit them into the garden of Baha, the verdant paradise and densely wooded grove, and grant them the vision of Thy Most Glorious Beauty in the sanctified gathering  AB03848

That pure soul calls to you from the zenith of heaven saying: "O mother, do not be sorrowful, do not be heartbroken! I have been freed from the cage of the dusty world and hastened to the eternal garden. I flew from the dark nest and reached the luminous dwelling place. I was thirsty and drank sweet water. I was lost and ran to the street of the Beloved of the horizons."   AB02960

But do not be sorrowful, for verily your Lord has guided that bird to its glorious flock and its lofty nest in His wondrous paradise, where it has joined the holy birds singing sweetly in the garden of fellowship to the melody of the Beloved. The people of Paradise have hearkened unto it, and their cries of "Glory!" and "God is Most Great!" have risen to the Glorious Lord.  AB07783

"...for those blessed and pure souls who have sought shelter under the shade of the divine Lote Tree, and who have closed their eyes to the world and all that is therein, their ascension is deliverance from this narrow and fleeting existence and their arrival in the world of God setteth them free from this realm of dust and enableth them to soar unto their heavenly abode."  AB03429

"They have no power to influence the world of men and only those who in life had been among the spiritually regenerated ones, those who had been re-born or baptized of the Holy Spirit, only such souls could consciously communicate or have knowledge of things in this world." "They are in a state of dark consciousness, deprived of the mercy of God, but were not annihilated."   ABU1901

That bird of ardent longing has taken flight to the divine rose garden, and that nightingale of the garden of faith has reached the garden of the bounty of the Most Merciful Lord. That drop has joined the Most Great Sea, and that atom has returned to the Sun of the Ancient Dawn. A thirsty one has reached the eternal Kawthar, and a withered one has attained everlasting life.   AB01071

We make mention of thy other daughter who ascended to God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. We purified her at the time of her ascension with the rains of mercy and grace, and We caused her to join the Supreme Companion. We made her hear the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and showed her My Most Glorious Horizon - a bounty from My presence, for I am the Forgiving, the Merciful.   BH01947

The three spirits - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit and the human spirit (that is, the rational soul) - do not return after death to this world of the first creation. However, the spirit of faith, which is the light of guidance, and the Holy Spirit, which is the reality of divine revelation, both return in every dispensation and cycle to this realm of the first creation.  AB04973

Concerning what occurreth after man ascendeth from this contingent world to the realm of the placeless - all the conditions of Heaven and Hell are spiritual in nature, although that world is not separated from this world. Its separation, in truth and meaning, is like the separation of the human kingdom from the kingdom of the mineral, for the mineral is unaware of the human world.  AB03862

Today, whosoever ascendeth unto God in love, the Concourse on High welcometh that sanctified spirit and inhale from it the fragrance of God, and with exclamations of "No God is there but Him" and "God is Most Great" and praise, they usher it into the station ordained for it. By the life of God! Were but an atom of that station to be revealed, all who are on earth would fall senseless.  BH00349

but those souls who have discovered the mysteries of the kingdom, and who have obtained grace from the dawning place of light, even though in the beginning they were poor, eventually they will attain the treasures that will never end. If in this world they see suffering in their body and soul, in the worlds of the kingdom they will obtain the utmost bounty and treasures of the spirit.  AB03266

If a soul were to become aware of what hath been revealed in the Crimson Scroll, he would testify to that which the Supreme Pen hath spoken. Blessed is he who hath proclaimed My Cause, and the ear that hath heard My call, and the eye that hath beheld My horizon, and the heart that hath turned toward My Kingdom, and the tongue that hath testified to that which My Tongue hath testified.   BH00490

When one enters the other world, he sees and knows so much that is now hidden that this world seems but a dark and narrow prison from which he has escaped. As a bird freed from the cage desires not to return there, so the soul of man freed from the body has no inclination to return to its close confines again, but loves to soar upward, nearer and ever nearer unto the Perfection of God   ABU2606

Though that lamp emerged from the glass of contingent being and was outwardly extinguished by the winds of events, yet it was kindled anew in the niche of the Concourse on High and the glass of the Most Glorious Kingdom, and its radiance encompassed the kingdom of existence. "Think not of those who are slain in God's way as dead. Nay, they are living! With their Lord they have provision."   AB07591

Know thou, that thy beloved son hath soared, with the wing of soul, up to the loftiest height which is never-ending in the Kingdom of God. Truly, I say unto thee, wert thou informed of the position in which is thy son, thy face would be illuminated by the lights of happiness and thou wouldst thank thy forgiving Lord therefor and thou wouldst long for ascending to that praiseworthy position.  AB07017

However, for them this departure and passing was a blessing and joy, for those two ailing ones drank of the honeyed Salsabil, and those two yearning souls hastened to the gathering place of the manifest Light of the horizons. Those two gazelles released their musk-fragrance and perfumed the nostrils of the invisible friends. They were freed from the cage and reached the eternal rose garden.  AB11160

yet your honored father who ascended to the Most Glorious Kingdom became joyous and glad, attaining to vision and meeting. And the honored Nabil-i-Akbar likewise took flight to the Most Glorious realm, seeking shelter beneath the Lote-Tree of the Uttermost Boundary, attaining the honor of meeting in the highest Paradise and drinking the cup of grace from the hand of the Cup-bearer of Oneness.   AB02226

That world cannot be revealed and known through the conceptions and expressions of this world. That world in comparison to that world is like a womb. Just as in the uterine world it is impossible and inconceivable to describe the greatness of this external world, in like manner, it is impossible and inconceivable to describe that divine world by means of the words and expressions of this world.  AB02660

Just so much as we are capable of loving here, that much more can we love there; for this is the sleeping-time, the time of preparation. We are only dreaming now, and even the real things we only dimly realize - but those are, that which will shine brilliantly when we get to the Kingdom, and the rest will all fade away. We will have our individuality and will not be swallowed up in one vast spirit.   ABU1645

And that nightingale of the rose-garden of divine knowledge, although it has flown from the thorny patch of this world, has made its nest in the rose-garden of the placeless realm upon the Sadratu'l-Muntaha, and with the most wondrous melodies has engaged in praise and glorification of the Lord of Lords, Who caused it to attain the paradise of eternity and the gathering of manifestation and presence.   AB11660

As to thy question regarding whither the soul returneth after the dissolution of the body: if it be associated with truth, it returneth to the Supreme Horizon. By the life of God! It returneth to a station whereof all tongues and pens are powerless to make mention. Every soul that is firm and steadfast in the Cause of God shall, after its ascension, be the source from which all worlds derive their bounties.  BH00328

Yet that master of the believers in the Lord hath become freed from the narrow confines of this world and hath flown unto the limitless apex of joy. A drop has gone back to the Mighty Ocean. The ray hath returned to the Sun. He is free from the wilderness of separation. He hath ascended to the assembly of the lights of the Lord of the Covenant and is now immersed in His light and established in the 'Abha Kingdom.  AB00726

"This separation is temporary. You will find him in the Presence of God. You will receive him in the Kingdom of God. First you enjoyed his companionship in this world. In the future you will have an eternal companionship with him. You associated with him in this life and you will find him there with the utmost happiness. You had him in this life imprisoned in a cage. There you will find him in a World of Freedom."  ABU0758

Every steadfast and assured soul who passeth away is delivered from estrangement and findeth rest in the true homeland, is freed from alienation and entereth the circle of those near to the threshold of the Almighty. The atom returneth to the sun, and the drop seeketh sustenance from the Euphrates; the thirsty one findeth the fountain of eternity, and the ailing one entereth the hospital of the All-Knowing Physician.  AB01408

The days of your companionship with Me are drawing to a close. The hour of separation has struck, a separation which no reunion will follow except in the Kingdom of God, in the presence of the King of Glory. In this world of dust, no more than nine fleeting months of association with Me have been allotted to you. On the shores of the Great Beyond, however, in the realm of immortality, joy of eternal reunion awaits us.  BBU0006

For this mortal world is like the womb, wherein the physical perfections and deficiencies of man are not evident. When one emerges from the world of the womb into this world, physical perfections and deficiencies become manifest and clear, though in the womb one is unaware of both. When he hastens to the other world, he observes that he has been delivered from a narrow and dark world and has entered into the divine world.  AB00188

For in that world the veil is torn asunder and one becometh immersed in an ocean of feeling and perception. Thy loving mother perceiveth the condition of her daughter and, rejoicing in her fortitude and patience, experienceth felicity in the eternal realm...Thy mother hath hastened to a world sanctified above the reach of human understanding, and hath been delivered from all sorrow, vexation, hardship, trouble, and misfortune.  AB12809

Death is nothing more than ascending from one world to another world more subtle than the first. It is being transferred from one state of existence to another. The detached amongst My servants look forward to this state and beseech God, glorified be His glory, to attain it, for after the soul ascendeth, it shall circle around God and enjoy His presence, after which it shall turn towards the station which is preordained for it.  BH06510

And when it has reached this most mighty and perfect station, this most pleasant, most pure, most sweet destination, and has drunk from these clear spring waters of Saba, it will attain to the station of submission and contentment, it will leave behind its searching and neediness and will entrust its affairs to God, the Mighty and Eternal King. It will rely upon Him and recline against the cushion of His bounty and beneficence.  AB00007

Let us die, and then I will convince you of the soul, of the higher home, of God. The world beyond is the home of my soul, it is my America, in which you do not believe and of which you refuse to know, because I cannot show it to you here in this world. Let us travel across the sea of death to the world beyond, and I will show it to you, just as you want to show me, after a journey across the ocean, the reality of your America beyond.  ABU0610

Ere long all of us will ascend to a praiseworthy station and return to the court of sanctity. We will leave our wealth and possessions behind, and hasten alone, naked, and unclothed to the other world. No person is lasting here and no one can remain in the nest and shelter of this desolate abode. From dust we appeared and to dust will we return. But the blessed soul shall ascend to another world and a kingdom of incomparable splendor.   AB06392

Lord! Verily, the heart of Thy tender servant is astonished at the delights of the realms above, and he is eager to meet Thee in Thine exalted kingdom. Like a bird, he hath soared with longing wings to the retreats of holiness in the precincts of Thy supreme mercy and hath sought refuge at the threshold of Thy clemency. He hath ascended unto Thee and reached Thee with his heart free and without any provisions in Thy presence save hope.  AB02857

Though thou art hidden from sight, praise be to God, thou didst raise daughters who, like thee, have arisen to serve the Kingdom and guide souls. They are radiant lamps in the assembly of divine knowledge, sacrificing themselves in the path of God, tending thy rose garden and watering thy orchard. How blessed art thou to have eternal life in the Kingdom of Glory and to have left behind such respected and loving remembrances in this world!  AB03687

But from another direction, there is assurance in the forgiveness and pardon of the All-Merciful, for those holy souls have become manifestations of divine favors in the infinite world, and what they sowed in the material world they have found as a gathered harvest in the divine realm. They have been freed from this world of weak elements and have attained a reality of the element of the All-Merciful and become immersed in the sea of lights.  AB01519

When the hour of death comes, the angel takes what has fallen upon the mirror of his misdeeds and conditions. At that moment, the believing servant ascends to Him with joy and fragrance in such wise that were all the hosts of heaven and earth to try to hold him back they would be powerless to cause his return. And the polytheist servant flees in such terror that were all the hosts of heaven and earth to seize him, he would be unable to accept.  BB00072

That nightingale hath winged its flight unto the divine rose-garden, and that drop hath returned unto the Ocean of Truth. That stranger hath hastened unto his true abode, and that invalid hath found eternal health and life. Wherefore dost thou grieve and sorrow? This separation is but for a period, this deprivation and bereavement but for a span of days. Thereafter shalt thou find him in the divine Kingdom and be everlastingly reunited with him.  AB05257

However, although that peerless shrub has sought separation from the woods of the nether world, yet, it has appeared fully adorned and resplendent in the rose-garden of the world on-high in the Abha Paradise. That divine bird has flown away from this mortal and earthly nest, has ascended to the Kingdom of God and has been engaged in singing the sweet melodies of paradise and thanksgiving on the lordly branches in the rose-garden of the Merciful.  AB02232

Now he is engaged in praising and glorifying the bountiful Lord, with wondrous melodies, in the gardens of the Kingdom. He became free from this earthly world and hastened unto the infinite realm of his Lord. He was released from this dustheap, found his way unto the divine Court, and became a nightingale in the rose garden of truth. He was freed from this contingent world and soared upwards unto the vast expanse and lofty heights of the Infinite.   AB04050

Upon those who die in the love of God and the Manifestation of His Cause shall descend the angels of the Cause with glad tidings from their Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate. The breezes of the All-Merciful shall waft upon them from all directions, and maidens of Paradise with downcast eyes shall circle round them with chalices and vessels, magnifying God before their faces and blessing them with melodies that draw nigh the hearts of those brought near.   BH01061

Until at last their strength failed them, their frames trembled from separation, the fire of anguish blazed within their breasts, and their patience was exhausted by remoteness from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom. So they cast off their bodily garments, donned the robe of sanctity, and soared to the highest horizon in their longing to attain Thy presence in the Kingdom of Mysteries and their yearning to attend the gathering of divine manifestation, the center of lights.  AB01224

That lofty branch hath ascended to the highest heaven, that brilliant star hath risen in the celestial realm, that morning bird hath started to sing exhilarating melodies in the garden of God, and that noble river hath returned unto the Most Great Ocean... The pinnacle of the Kingdom is the place of gathering, and the shadow of the loving Lord is the place of meeting. That meeting is eternal, that gathering is everlasting, and that pleasure and delight is perpetual.  AB07649

From it will appear the signs of God and His qualities, the providence of God and His bestowal. Blessed is the spirit which abandons the body, previously sanctified and freed from the doubts of the nations. Verily, it moves in the atmosphere of the will of its Lord, and enters into the Supreme Paradise. It associates with the prophets of God, and His chosen ones, and it converses with them, and relates to them those events which have happened to it in the path of God.  ABU0185

By the life of God! The lights and effulgences of those pure spirits who ascend detached from the world and purified from the doubts of the nations, are the cause and source of the manifestation of knowledge, wisdom, crafts, and the preservation of creation. Death shall not overtake them, and their consciousness, understanding, power and strength are beyond the reckoning of minds and comprehension. The lights of these spirits are the educators of the world and its peoples.  BH00070

As it is not yet apparent while the child is in the matrix of its mother what its condition will be - whether or not it will have all the gifts of God, whether or not it will be perfect in all its members, whether it will be blind or deaf or dumb, but afterwards, when it enters the world it becomes clearly apparent if it be defective or not - so is it with the soul in its present state. Its perfections or its defects are not understood until it enters the heavenly Kingdom.  ABU0974

Do not feel grieved or disconsolate, therefore, at the ascension of that bird of faithfulness; nay, under all circumstances pray for that youth, supplicating for him forgiveness and the elevation of his station...My hope from the infinite bounties of God is that He may shelter this dove of the garden of faith, and cause him to abide on the branch of the Supreme Concourse, that he may sing in the best of melodies the praise and glorification of the Lord of Names and Attributes.  AB01938

Thou hast quit this earthly world and risen upward to the Kingdom, thou hast reached unto the grace of the invisible realm, and offered thyself at the threshold of its Lord. Thou hast left the lamp that was thy body here, the glass that was thy human form, thy earthy elements, thy way of life below. Thou art now a bird of Heaven, thou hast quit thine earthly nest, and soared away to a garden of holiness in the kingdom of thy Lord. Thou hast risen to a station filled with light.  AB00398

Both before and after casting off this elemental frame, the human soul progresses in perfections but not in station. The progression of all created things culminates in perfect man, and no greater being than him exists: Man, having reached the human station, can progress only in perfections and not in station, for there is no higher station to which he can find passage than that of a perfect man. He can progress solely within the human station, as human perfections are infinite.  AB00420

The breezes of divine grace have seized her and purified her from sin. Thus hath the grace of Thy Lord, the All-Merciful, surrounded her, and His grace, verily, encompasseth the worlds. Happy is she, for she hath quaffed from the chalice of sanctity and visited the beauty of God in the paradise of inviolable splendor. The moment she ascended to the tree of eternity, the maids of heaven came forth from their chambers of glory and welcomed her, and with them came a band of angels.   BH02083

So with what comes after this life. Here we are subject to the conditions of matter; after this will succeed life on the mental plane, a life freed from this material body. But according to the life we have lived here depend the conditions of life on that next plane. What we sow here, that we reap there. Even though on leaving this body we enter upon a life of the sprit, the conditions of the spirit-life must depend upon the degree of development to which the spirit has attained.  ABU2537

As for thy question concerning those who passed away before this Revelation, know thou that they abide in a paradise of exalted glory. Those who believed in the Point of the Bayan have indeed attained unto God and His presence. Whosoever among them died hath ascended unto God and entered the paradise of grace, whereupon he sayeth: "Praise be to God Who hath fulfilled His promise and hath caused me to inherit a paradise whose breadth is as the breadth of the heavens and the earth."  BH00949

For he has ascended in the shadow of the Peerless Beauty to the Kingdom of Glory and has attained to the threshold of the Throne of the Lord, the All-Bountiful. This is not death, it is life; this is not passing, it is deliverance; this is not extinction, it is immortality; this is not separation, it is the very essence of faithfulness. The parched and thirsting one has reached the boundless ocean of mercy, and the passionate lover, freed from separation, has attained to his Beloved.   AB05235

When the souls that are not good die, they go entirely away from this earth and so cannot influence anyone. They are spiritually dead. Their thoughts can have influence only while they are alive on the earth. Caiaphas had great influence during his life, but as soon as he died, his influence ceased. It was of this kind that Christ said, 'Let the dead bury their dead.' But the good souls are given eternal life, and sometimes God permits their thoughts to reach the earth to help people.  ABU3101

He was freed from the constraints of contingent existence and soared to the realm beyond space. He became detached from the body and rushed to the world of the spirit, attaining the presence of the Beloved. Though for that celestial bird it was liberation from the cage and deliverance from the prison of desire and passion - a drop that hastened to the ocean, a particle that sped to the heights of the sun, a yearning soul that found its way to the chamber of the Beloved of all horizons   AB00286

Know that the Lord of the world, glorified and exalted be He, will take the soul of the believer and cause it to ascend unto the highest heaven. In this station of spiritual glory the souls of the believers will become acquainted with each other in the path which the Lord of the world hath foreordained. They will advance together toward the loftiest stations, and shall not return to the material world until the time when the eternal Will purposeth to return the creation and make the world anew.  BH05340

The soul or the energy which we possess is an abstract essence, separable from the material body as to its identity, or form, but in reality it is inseparable as to its actions or power. In every one of the worlds there must be a body suitable to the conditions of such a world. The spirit develops many qualities or degrees of bodies after death or decarnation, and progresses after demise from world to world, and refines the quality of the spiritual body from time to time without over incarnating again in the flesh.   ABU0747

And as for heedless parents, when they pass from this world to another world, they remain deprived of divine favors, veiled from witnessing, and forbidden from eternal bounty - like the blind who cannot see, the deaf who cannot hear, and those deprived of smell. But when their spiritual children who are believers in God and certain of God's verses seek forgiveness and intercession and lament at the divine threshold and perform good deeds and charitable works, perhaps their intercession will be accepted at the divine threshold.  AB01916

Observe how clear this matter is! Yet despite this, most of the world's scholars and learned ones are entirely unaware of this truth. But these who are captivated by spirits speak of the world of thought. However, a heavenly soul who is aware of the divine realm, whose eye of insight is opened, who is detached from the natural world and has attained spiritual power - such a one is aware of the divine world and the realm of spirits. The reality of the spirit is abstract - it is not physical, has no space, and occupies no place.  AB01007

The kings of East and West ultimately became subjects, and flourishing palaces were transformed into buried tombs, and the expanse and spaciousness of edifices ended in the narrow, grief-filled grave. But the servants at the Divine Threshold hastened from this dust-heap to the endless world, and flew from this ash-pit of sorrows to the rose-garden of spirit and delight. They became established upon the throne of eternal sovereignty and placed upon their heads a radiant crown of divine bounty, and lit a luminous lamp in the night-chamber of life.   AB01067

That nightingale of the garden of faithfulness has flown to the eternal gardens, and that dove of the bower of loyalty has ascended to the meadows of the mercy of the Lord. That candle became illumined in the gathering of the All-Merciful, and that moth of the divine lamp burned away the physical veil. That consumed fish found its way to the divine sea, and that disturbed nightingale entered the rose garden of the All-Merciful. That sincere lover reached the privacy of the Beloved, and that compatible friend entered the gathering of the Loved One.   AB02324

When the soul of man ascends to the bountiful realm, it certainly unveils this physical world, for every higher station unveils the station below it, but a lower station cannot unveil a higher station. For example, man has come from the mineral world to the human world, and the human world unveils the earthly world. He is likewise aware of the plant kingdom and informed of the animal kingdom - he unveils them all. But the mineral world has no knowledge of man's pure world. Good deeds and charitable works performed for souls certainly have an effect.  AB00576

As to the question of the immortality of negligent souls once they have cast off their earthly frame, their immortality is tantamount to extinction, inasmuch as they are deprived of a heavenly life. They are even as the mineral, which endureth in the mineral realm, but which is utter nonexistence when compared to human existence. The other worlds are not a place where realities are transformed, or natures transmuted, or creation renewed. It is clear, however, that souls will progress in degrees and become the object of divine pardon and forgiveness.  AB01629

And as to thy question regarding how rights can be restored in the world after death and how the rights of people can be fulfilled in the Greater Resurrection, which hath been interpreted as the Day of Recompense, and how this can be conceived and made possible, given that these ornaments, properties and rights which are sought after and visible in this vain life have no existence in the worlds beyond death, and even if they did exist would yield no benefit or fruit to the rightholders - how then can the restoration of rights be spoken of in those worlds  BH00423

Each soul, when separated from the body, will on the first day reach the first station and pass through it and pass beyond the essence of earth. On the second day in the second station, it will pass beyond the essence of the world of plants. On the third day in the third station, it will pass beyond the world of animals. On the morning of the fourth day, in the station of human beings, when the resplendent sun of the Lord of the Worlds shines forth, whosoever passes, will attain the world of the Kind Lord. Otherwise, he will remain in the station of animals.  AB02204

It is like an infant emerging from the confining womb of its mother into this world of color and water. While the bird remains in its cage, it knoweth not of the expanse of the rose garden, the freshness of the meadow, the beauty of the orchard, or the sweetness of friends. But when it taketh flight, it heareth melodies and songs from every direction, becoming intimate with the birds of the meadow. It heareth the sound of the lute and harp, entereth the shade of a praiseworthy station, becometh the companion and confidant of grateful birds, and uttereth Would that my people knew!  AB04005

As to the question of annihilation and destruction of the spirits: Mr. Phelps hath not fully understood the matter or else the translator hath made some mistake. It was not intended to convey the idea that the unbelieving souls are absolutely annihilated. Nay, rather, it was meant that the existence of the evil spirits in comparison to the existence of the sanctified souls was like unto annihilation. As you clearly behold, the existence of mineral in comparison with the existence of man is like unto non-being. When the body of man is destroyed and disintegrated, it returneth to the mineral.   AB01171

Yet that bird of the garden of unity ever yearned for the eternal realm and was detached from this ephemeral world, until his appointed time arrived and that nightingale of the divine rose-garden took flight to the infinite paradise. He ascended from this lower realm to the Supreme Concourse, and in the garden of grandeur, upon the branch of supreme bounty, he burst forth in wondrous song and melody. He became the intimate companion of the spiritual ones in the endless world, gained entry to the court of divine manifestation, and was immersed in the ocean of mysteries in the kingdom of lights.   AB00193

The desire of the spirit and its inclination are to return to the Supreme King, for it was sent forth from His Command. When the hour of death arrives, the Sovereign Lord observeth that which hath appeared upon the mirror, all its shortcomings and all its worthy conditions. When a faithful servant ascendeth to Him in spirit, should the hosts of heaven and earth attempt to prevent him, they shall not succeed, and he returneth unto God. And though the infidel fleeth before His awful Majesty, yet must he submit to the judgment of God, even should the hosts of heaven and earth combine to assist him.  BB00502

The spiritual life of man after ascending from this material world is even as the bodily life of man after being born from the world of the womb. Although he possessed a life in his mother's belly, that life was cheerless and without fruit. When he came out of his mother's womb and put foot into this world, his bodily life became perfected. In the same way, although in this world man hath a spiritual life, such a life resembleth the life of the fetus. When he hasteneth from this world to the world of the Kingdom and maketh his way to the divine realm, then his spiritual life will attain completion.  AB02957

That beloved child addresseth thee from the hidden world: 'O thou kind Mother, thank divine Providence that I have been freed from a small and gloomy cage and, like the birds of the meadows, have soared to the divine world -- a world which is spacious, illumined, and ever gay and jubilant. Therefore, lament not, O Mother, and be not grieved; I am not of the lost, nor have I been obliterated and destroyed. I have shaken off the mortal form and have raised my banner in this spiritual world. Following this separation is everlasting companionship. Thou shalt find me in the heaven of the Lord, immersed in an ocean of light.'  AB03183

Know thou that the spirit in its own station remains firm and enduring. The weakness observed in the sick is due to intervening causes, not to any weakness in the spirit itself. Consider the lamp: it is luminous and shining, but if something blocks it, its light is obscured although in its own station it remains luminous - yet due to the intervening cause its light is prevented from shining forth. Likewise, in illness the manifestation of the spirit's power and might is prevented and veiled due to intervening causes, but after its release from the body it appears with such power, might and ascendancy as cannot be imagined.  BH00060

As to what thou hast asked about the ascension of the soul, know thou that the soul of him who hath believed in his Lord, the Most Glorious - by God, it ascendeth unto heaven and soareth in the holy and luminous atmosphere, yearning for the station which We have ordained for it until it reacheth the Most Glorious Companion, the station wherein shineth forth one of the effulgences of this Most Great and Supreme Name. At the time of its ascension, the souls of the Prophets and Messengers receive it. By God, it soareth wheresoever it willeth, and all the doors of grace are opened before its face, if thou be of them that know. The denizens of the Supreme Paradise inhale from it the fragrance of the garment of this Revelation which hath dawned upon all things through His Most Glorious Name. Blessed is he who hath found its fragrance in these days wherein the Beauty of the Ancient of Days hath appeared with manifest sovereignty. BH01597

For just as the fruits and results of embryonic life are not found in that dark and constricted realm, and only upon transfer to this vast world do the benefits and advantages of growth and development in that previous world become evident - likewise the reward and punishment, heaven and hell, and the recompense for deeds and actions in this present life become manifest in the world beyond this world. And just as if embryonic life and existence were confined to the womb it would be purposeless and irrelevant, so too if the life of this world and its deeds and fruits did not emerge in another world, it would be entirely purposeless and irrational.   AB00282

The bliss of the spirit is nearness to the Ancient Beauty, and hell is remoteness from that Manifest Light. It is perfection and deficiency, loftiness and baseness, luminosity and darkness. Although the spirit is abstract, its abstraction is from the physical world. However, in its own essence it possesses ranks and stations both high and low. Though free from the constraints of contingent existence, in its own realm it has infinite ranks, stations and conditions. Likewise, its return to God is like the return of the part to the whole - not like the drop and ocean, but rather like the return of birds to the garden of the providence of the Forgiving Lord.   AB01050

Thou shouldst not regard anything as lost; nay, rather thou shouldst behold the light of the eyes existing, albeit in another world, a heavenly realm full of splendor and glory. Thou shouldst perceive the nightingale singing in that rose garden, and the dove of holiness abiding in the gardens of that world. Thou shouldst see the birds of God soaring in the paradise of the All-Merciful, and find the gazelles of the land of unity grazing in the fields of bounty. If they have been delivered from this cage and snare, be not crushed thereby. Ere long thou shalt be present before the throne of the generous Lord, and thou shalt bear witness in the kingdom of the Almighty.  AB02873

If man were to become aware, after the spirit's ascension from the physical temple, of what divine gifts are attained, his soul would surely take flight. However, in this world, explanation of that realm is impossible and unattainable. Just as when man was in the mother's womb, in that dark confined space, understanding and truly perceiving this spiritual world was impossible. When he transferred from that world to this one, he observed what divine gifts, heavenly mercy, and universal spectacle it was. Similarly, in this physical frame one cannot imagine the divine spiritual realms. When one hastens from this transient world to that eternal world, one will observe sanctification and holiness, and bounty upon bounty.  AB03919

Holy souls, after their ascension, have mighty influences and abundant outpourings established, and great effects ordained in all horizons and souls. After separation from bodies, spirits do not take on elemental physical form. What is imagined is the person's own discovery in receiving aid and grace from holy souls. When in that state one becomes absent from self and immersed in the ocean of attention, a spiritual condition free from body and physicality appears to their view, and they think it is a body. It is like dreams - in the dream world one sees various forms, converses, and receives bounties, thinking in the dream state that these are embodied temples and physical manifestations, when in fact they are purely spiritual.   AB00075

Regarding the statement written that the soul progresses with the assistance of the body - this means that when the body engages in service to humanity, such as nursing the sick, strengthening the weak, and being martyred and sacrificed in the path of God, this causes the soul's progress. Similarly, when the physical eye beholds the faces of the loved ones, and the physical ear hears the Blessed Beauty's counsels and heavenly call, this causes the soul's progress. The primary means of the soul's progress is faith, certitude and knowledge, and words and deeds according to Baha'u'llah's teachings. After ascension from this body, the means of souls' progress are the prayers and supplications of friends, as well as the grace and bounty of the All-Merciful.   AB00546

All the people in the other world, are they not creatures of God? Therefore they can progress in the other world. As they can receive light by supplicating here, there they can also receive light by supplicating. The rich in the other world can help the poor - as the rich can help the poor here. In every world they are the creatures of God they are always dependent not independent - and can never cease to be so. While they are needful of God the more they will supplicate - (and the richer they become). What is their merchandise - their wealth? In the other world what is help and assistance? It is intercession - first undeveloped souls must gain progress through the supplications of the spiritual rich - and afterwards they can progress through their own supplications.   ABU1291

Concerning thy question about the spirit and its survival after its ascension, know thou that it will ascend at the time of its departure until it attaineth the presence of God in a form that neither the revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and chances of the world can alter. It will endure as long as the Kingdom of God, His sovereignty, His dominion and power will endure. It manifests the signs of God and His attributes, and reveals His loving kindness and bounty. The pen cannot depict this station nor can any description adequately express its nature, for it is exalted above any description or praise. The Hand of Divine Bounty will cause it to enter a station that no word can appropriately describe, nor can any trace of it be found in the visible world.   BH00433

Know thou, moreover, that when the spirit ascendeth to the All-Highest Companion, it presenteth itself before God, the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting, and the hand of divine favor and bounty guideth it to a station that none knoweth save Him Who declareth in every condition that there is no God but He, the Single, the One, the Mighty, the Loving. Blessed is the spirit that hath left the body purified from the doubts of the nations. By the life of God! It moveth in the atmosphere of its lord's desire and entereth the gardens as it willeth, and the holy maidens of Paradise serve it in the morning and in the evening. It consorteth with the Prophets of God and His chosen ones, converseth with them, and relateth unto them that which hath appeared in the days of God, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving.  BH00525

That bird hath flown unto the retreats of the Concourse on high, and that thirsty fish hath hastened unto the ocean of the Kingdom of Abha. If that bird hath flown to the nest of the birds of heaven, become a graceful cypress in the garden of mercy, ascended as a star above the horizon of the Lord, and become a shining candle in the assembly of God, thou must not be grieved or saddened thereby, for, in truth, this is loving-kindness unalloyed, a pure gift and absolute bounty. Happy is he and blessed be his return. That graceful bud has veiled its countenance from the furnace of this world, but has blossomed in the rose garden of the Abha Kingdom and revealed its face and become gladdened. If you were to know in what station she is established, you would find perfect solace and complete tranquility.  AB02344

Regarding your question about the discovery of spirits after releasing their bodies - certainly that world is a world of discovery and vision, for the veil will be lifted and the human spirit will behold souls above, below and equal to its station. The example is that when man was in the world of the womb, his sight was veiled and all things were hidden. When he was born from the world of the womb and came to this world, this world is, in relation to the world of the womb, a world of discovery and vision. Therefore he beholds all things with his outward sight. Similarly, when he departs from this world to the other world, whatever was hidden in this world will be revealed in that world. In that world he will perceive and behold all things with the eye of insight. He will behold his peers and equals, those above him and those below him.   AB00092

The conditions after death cannot be conceived, but observe: it is evident that man has come from the mineral kingdom. When in the mineral state, the vegetable kingdom could not be conceived. Then he progressed to the vegetable kingdom. In the vegetable state, the animal kingdom could not be conceived. Before transferring from the animal kingdom to the human kingdom, the life of human reason and consciousness was inconceivable - that is, it was impossible; there was no awareness of it. Now this earth and these trees have absolutely no knowledge of the animal and human kingdoms and cannot conceive of them. They utterly deny them. Yet the human kingdom sustains the animal kingdom and aids the vegetable kingdom, though the vegetable kingdom is unaware. Similarly, the human world has no knowledge of the Kingdom of God and is completely ignorant of it. However, the heavenly spirits have influence in the human world.  AB01007

With regard to what you asked about spirits and their awareness of each other after their ascension, know that the people of Baha who are established in the Crimson Ark consort with each other, associate intimately, gather together, soar, aim for their goals, and ascend as if they were one soul - except that they are the discerning ones, they are the seeing ones, they are the knowing ones. Thus has the matter been decreed from the presence of One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise. The people of Baha who dwell in the divine Ark are all aware of each other's conditions and are intimate companions and associates with one another. This station depends on the certitude and deeds of souls. Those souls who are at the same level are aware of each other's qualities, characteristics, ranks and stations. But souls who are below them cannot fully comprehend the levels and stations of those souls who are above them. Each has their portion with your Lord.   BH00972

The ultimate rewards, which consist in life everlasting, have been explicitly recorded in all the heavenly scriptures. They are divine perfections, eternal bounty and everlasting joy. The ultimate rewards are the gifts and perfections that man attains in the spiritual realms after his ascension from this world, while the existential rewards are those true and luminous perfections which are attained while still abiding in this world and which are the cause of everlasting life. For the existential rewards are the advancement of existence itself and are analogous to the passage of man from the stage of the embryo to that of maturity and becoming the embodiment of the verse, "Hallowed be the Lord, the most excellent of all creators!" The ultimate rewards consist in spiritual bounties and bestowals, such as the manifold gifts of God that are vouchsafed after the ascension of the soul, the attainment of the heart's desire, and reunion with Him in the everlasting realm.   AB00268

To continue:  this servant came to understand a matter which that beloved one had made mention of concerning the worlds after death.  They wrote that in these days specifically someone asked this question of that honorable one, and that honorable one read to him the answer to Mulla 'Abdu'r-Razzaq's question and similar statements. And then they wrote that after several days one of the friends arrived and by chance that very same person asked this question in this house from that person. They explicitly, without delay or interpretation, denied the worlds after death. I remained bewildered and observed that if I were to say something, there was fear it would lead to lengthy discourse, and this double-speak is contrary to unity in expression. Up to this point was the writing of that beloved one.  Glory be to God! According to that beloved one's account, that respondent spoke very much outside of wisdom. Today all are commanded to wisdom. In one of the Tablets He states: "Milk must be given in measure so that the children of the age may enter the world of maturity," and so forth, glory and might be to Him. Setting aside whether what was said was sound or unsound, this utterance was outside of wisdom in the view of people of understanding. The Supreme Pen has commanded wisdom in countless instances, and in truth the essence of wisdom consists in words that cause the revival of souls. In one of the earlier Tablets it was seen that He states: "One word is like the spring breezes, effective and the cause of life, and another word is the messenger of death." Thus both the trumpet of Israfil and the messenger of death appear from the word. And in another place He states: "One word is like the spring winds that make fresh and alive a withered and dead world, and one word is like the poisonous wind that makes a world of freshness and delicacy and joy withered and drooping, nay rather, non-existent."  Today everyone who considers themselves among the people of God or counts themselves as wise should speak words that cause enkindlement and unity and harmony and agreement and life. I beseech Him, exalted be He, to aid all to what He loves and is pleased with. This servant is greatly amazed at such statements. God willing, it is hoped that the speaker will reflect and utter what is befitting. If the levels of people's understanding were sufficient, surely these matters would become evident. And if divine worlds were limited to this world, surely the Dawning Places of revelation and Rising Points of the Cause and Manifestations of the All-Merciful would not have borne countless afflictions.  BH00400


Taking the material ocean as an illustration, 'Abdu'l-Baha said, The atoms composing an ocean are, in appearance the ocean, but the identity of the atoms remains. So it is with our individuality in the ocean of life, it remains.   ABU3516

Thou hast asked concerning the spirits of men. They are not at all annihilated. They are immortal. But the spirits of heavenly souls will find eternal life, that is, they will attain to the highest and most great stations of perfection. But the spirits of the heedless souls although they are immortal yet they are in a world of imperfection, concealment and ignorance. This is a concise answer. Contemplate, and meditate upon it in order that thou mayest comprehend the reality of the mysteries in detail. For instance, no matter how much the mineral has existence and life yet, in comparison with man, it is entirely non-existent and deprived of life. When man is transformed, translated, from life to death, his comparative station will be that of the mineral existence. In such wise, the mineral life typifies the death of man. This is a brief answer.  AB07154

The unborn child imagineth that the world of existence is confined to the womb and its nourishing blood. But this is not the case. The All-Wise, the All-Pervading hath ordained another world, which is vast and luminous.  AB12785

The Cause will be fulfilled, the world will pass away and its possessions will perish, and all that is in it and upon it. All that is on earth shall be gathered together on the Day when all shall stand to account in a mighty and upright presence. There shall every soul find what it hath earned, and God shall question them concerning what they have wrought in the realm.  BH11716

We will find shelter and protection under the shade of Baha'u'llah's gift. A unity exists which is not followed by separation, a day not followed by night, a joy that has no end, a life that death does not end. This I hope that we will eternally be together under the protection of such a favor.  ABU2974

When the body dies the soul lives on. All the differing degrees of created physical beings are limited, but the soul is limitless! In all religions the belief exists that the soul survives the death of the body. Intercessions are sent up for the beloved dead, prayers are said for their progress and for the forgiveness of their sins. If the soul perished with the body, all this would have no meaning. Further, if it were not possible for the soul to advance towards perfection after it had been released from the body, of what avail are all these loving prayers, of devotion? We read in the sacred writings that "all good works are found again." Now, if the soul did not survive, this also would mean nothing! The very fact that our spiritual instinct, surely never given in vain, prompts us to pray for the welfare of those, our loved ones, who have passed out of the material world: does it not bear witness to the continuance of their existence? ABU0054


be not sorrowful when meeting with worldly difficulties and depressions, for they pass away--and thine shall be immortality during ages and centuries, times and cycles.  AB10186

It follows clearly from these explanations that man is immortal and everlasting. Those who believe in God, who cherish His love, and who have attained certitude, enjoy that blessed life which we call life eternal; but those who are veiled from God, though they be endowed with life, yet they live in darkness and their life in comparison with that of the believers is non-existence.  AB00336

be thou not afraid of any cause, for the loved ones of God shall never perish nor decline. Day by day they shall increase in permanence and attain life everlasting.  AB12657

When the souls of the sincere depart (from this body), then their unreal vision (i. e., seeing) is changed into a vision of reality....  As to the question whether the souls will recognize each other in the spiritual world: This (fact) is certain; for the Kingdom is the world of vision (i. e., things are visible in it), where all concealed realities will become disclosed. How much more the well-known souls will become manifest. The mysteries of which man is heedless in this earthly world, those will he discover in the heavenly world, and there will he be informed of the secret of truth; how much more will he recognize or discover persons with whom he hath been associated. Undoubtedly, the holy souls who find a pure eye and are favored with insight will, in the kingdom of lights, be acquainted with all mysteries, and will seek the bounty of witnessing the reality of every great soul. Even they will manifestly behold the Beauty of God in that world. Likewise will they find all the friends of God, both those of the former and recent times, present in the heavenly assemblage.... The difference and distinction will naturally become realized between all men after their departure from this mortal world. But this (distinction) is not in respect to place, but it is in respect to the soul and conscience. For the Kingdom of God is sanctified (or free) from time and place; it is another world and another universe. But the holy souls are promised the gift of intercession. And know thou for a certainty, that in the divine worlds, the spiritual beloved ones (believers) will recognize each other, and will seek union (with each other), but a spiritual union. Likewise, a love that one may have entertained for any one will not be forgotten in the world of the Kingdom. Likewise, thou wilt not forget (there) the life that thou hast had in the material world.  AB00448

This analogy expresses the relation of the temporal world to the life hereafter -- the transition of the soul of man from darkness and uncertainty to the light and reality of the eternal Kingdom. At first it is very difficult to welcome death, but after attaining its new condition the soul is grateful, for it has been released from the bondage of the limited to enjoy the liberties of the unlimited. It has been freed from a world of sorrow, grief and trials to live in a world of unending bliss and joy. The phenomenal and physical have been abandoned in order that it may attain the opportunities of the ideal and spiritual.   ABU0342

Q. Do the dead pass entirely away from the earth, losing all consciousness of an interest in the people and affairs of the world?  A. No, the dead retain both interest in and remembrance of those they love   ABU3625



If while there he were to be told of a better world, he would not believe in it. It is hard for him to leave that world for this; but when he comes forth he learns that that was a perdition, and this a world of light. Then he understands that that was narrow, this spacious; that there he had but bad odours, while here he enjoys the perfumes of gardens; that there he was in darkness, while now he sees; that there no sounds came to his ears, while now he hears; that there was torpor, here speech; there death, here life.  ABU0892

This much is true and we can grasp it - that the spiritual is the real life, and when we get there this earthly existence will be to us as a dream; and, best of all, the ties and relationships of true love and affection, that is, the relationships of the soul, - not of the flesh - will be intensified a thousand times.   ABU1645

Just as the uterine world did not have the capacity to manifest the divine gifts of hearing, vision, smell, taste, and perception, so likewise this dark and narrow world hath neither the capacity nor the means to manifest all the limitless perfections.   AB06148

A wicked soul, lacking development, is non-existent spiritually, just as in the station of the tree, the stone is nonexistent because the stone lacks the powers and development of the tree. Therefore, a soul which continues in a condition of non-development through violating the Will of God suffers extinction and is spiritually nonexistent.  ABU0744

Observe the Paradise which is the station of the perfection of creation, for therein every bird warbles all melodies, every tree bears fruits of diverse hues, every food contains the taste of all foods, and all that exists therein of fruits and trees and rivers possesses feeling and life and perception and consciousness even as man. To this did the Shaykh (may God's peace be upon him) refer in his commentary on the principles, where he said: "As for what is general, verily all that is in Paradise of animals, plants and minerals is alive with animal life conjoined with consciousness and feeling, which are linked to discernment and reason. Nothing exists therein to which existence can be attributed save as we have described." God, the Exalted, hath said: 'Verily the abode of the Hereafter - that is indeed Life!' And verily I saw in a dream as though I had come to one of the gardens of Paradise wherein were trees and plants, and I saw all the leaves of those trees and plants looking at me, each with two eyes - the gaze of reason - being both leaf and animal. This is but a brief allusion to the life of the Hereafter, and the matter is greater, far greater." Thus ended his words - may God exalt his station.  BB00023