Abdu'l-Baha, do You know everything? Saffa Kinney is said to have asked.  "No, I do not know everything. But when I need to know something, it is pictured before Me."  ABU3547

Know that you seek one who is capable of understanding all mysteries and knowledgeable of all sciences in detail. God and His chosen ones bear witness that I neither was nor am such a one. BB00407

Thou knowest full well that We perused not the books which men possess and We acquired not the learning current amongst them, and yet whenever We desire to quote the sayings of the learned and of the wise, presently there will appear before the face of thy Lord in the form of a tablet all that which hath appeared in the world and is revealed in the Holy Books and Scriptures. Thus do We set down in writing that which the eye perceiveth. Verily His knowledge encompasseth the earth and the heavens. BH00223

The Blessed Beauty said that the nature of the Most Great Branch reflected the nature of God, and that with but slight attention, He could comprehend sciences and arts that others could not master. Just as the Bab, though having practiced writing for only a few pages, possessed such sweet penmanship, and though attending school for just a few days, had such divine knowledge flow from His blessed heart. Thus it was that the Most Great Branch, upon merely hearing certain outward sciences, became such that no scholar had the power to challenge Him.  BHU0006

The explanations of the Manifestation were all revelations, and there is not a single learned man on the earth who can produce the like of them.   ABU2105

He must answer the questions of all the sages, solve all the difficult problems of humanity... His Knowledge must be infinite and his wisdom all-comprehensive.  ABU1402

Many people crossed the desert of Sinai but it was Moses who heard the voice of God because the divine Manifestations have a spiritual power peculiar to themselves.   ABU1840

The prophets see many things with their inner eye. They do not need to go by discoveries. The scientist with induction is like a blind man who cannot see two steps ahead of him. The prophet sees a long distance."   ABU0326

The divine teachers have the innate light; they have knowledge and understanding of all things in the universe; the rest of the world receives its light from them and through them the arts and sciences are revived in each age.   ABU0127

In the days when the Sun of the horizons dawned from the East of Iraq and illumined with its brilliant rays the daysprings of the world and the foreheads of nations, He issued a universal call to all the peoples of the contingent world and opened the doors of the supreme gift to the face of all on earth. All peoples, tribes, religions and paths were present in the Most Holy Court, and all were submissive and humble. Every seeker asked about the divine mysteries and received a healing, sufficient answer. And any person who asked about the most difficult questions of ancient arts and modern sciences, even obscure sciences, heard a convincing reply. This matter is renowned throughout all regions and known to all in every direction, despite everyone knowing that throughout His life He had neither studied nor been taught. What greater miracle than this? AB05088

The Divine Light and the Heavenly Fire at the same time confer true perception, a secret knowledge, a sure inspiration, which extend not only to the eternal verities of the religion but also to all worldly, past, contemporary and future occurrences.  ABU0218

I was but a man like others, asleep upon My couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that hath been. This thing is not from Me, but from One Who is Almighty and All-Knowing. And He bade Me lift up My voice between earth and heaven...  BH00038

the Prophets prove the existence of Intuition or Inner Reason, by showing forth themselves such a comprehension which is beyond the power of any man. They also inspire their disciples with, and develop in them, the same power. This is illustrated in the life, prophetic vision and deeds of the Prophets and their true followers.  ABU0971

But their heavenly station encompasses all things, is aware of all mysteries, is informed of all signs, and rules supreme over all things. And this is equally true both before and after the intimation of their mission. That is why Christ said: I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last--that is, there has never been, nor shall there ever be, any change or alteration in Me.  AB00747

The Holy, Divine Manifestations are even superior and distinguished in their physical powers from the rest of mankind. For example, even when the Blessed Perfection was not feeling well his pulse did beat regularly like the pulse of a young man of 20 yrs old... His sense of smell was very keen indeed and up to the end of his life he read the finest types without the aid of glasses.   ABU1649

J. E.: would Abdul Baha tell us about the knowledge of Baha'o'llah.  Abdul Baha: It was infinite, unlimited. This is clear. Can a limited lpower raise such a cause? This is apparent. Even the enemies of Baha'o'llah admit this. They say there is extreme power in this personage.  J. E.: I have been told of a tablet in which he said that whenever he wanted to know anything, there it was before him in a clear and manifest tablet.  Abdul Baha: When he wished anything it would be accomplished. (Leaving prison).  ABU1759

As to the pronouncements which, through divine revelation, have issued from the Prophets regarding the advent of the Promised One of the Torah, these likewise were not the cause of Christ's appearance. But the hidden mysteries of the days to come were revealed to the Prophets, who thus became acquainted with future events and who proclaimed them in turn. This knowledge and proclamation were not the cause of these events.   AB03274


The universal Manifestations of God are aware of the truths underlying the mysteries of all created things, and thus they found a religion that is based upon and consonant with the prevailing condition of humanity. For religion consists in the necessary relationships deriving from the realities of things. If the Manifestation of God--the divine Lawgiver--were not informed of the realities of things, if He did not understand the necessary relationships deriving from these realities, He would assuredly be incapable of establishing a religion consonant with the needs and conditions of the time.  AB00780

Consider these answers of His according to the text of the Qur'an, and likewise observe the manifestation of encompassing knowledge, power and greatness of the Most Great Name in this most perfect and most mighty Revelation - in Iran, Iraq, Constantinople, Adrianople, and in the early period of this Most Great Prison when He would grant meetings. All peoples, tribes, scholars, learned ones, princes and ministers who attained His holy presence acknowledged and confessed the greatness, power and loftiness of station of the Manifestation of Revelation and the Beauty of the Self-Subsisting. They heard convincing answers to their questions, accompanied by their own acknowledgment and confession.   AB00125

Once He went to Mazindaran where Mirza Muhammad-Taqi, the renowned mujtahid, was in Yalrud. He had nearly a thousand students and had given several of his pupils permission and authority to practice ijtihad. In the evenings there would be gatherings for scholarly discourse where they would relate certain difficult traditions, and when they would become perplexed, the Blessed Beauty would explain the meaning of the tradition. One evening, Mirza Muhammad-Taqi the mujtahid asked his students about a tradition. They offered interpretations which he did not approve. Then the Blessed Beauty gave an explanation and he fell silent. The next day he said to his students who were mujtahids, For twenty-five years I have trained and taught you. I had supposed you would not be helpless in explaining this tradition, yet a young man wearing a hat has expounded it in such a way.  ABU0123

The second kind of discovery is due to the fact that the Prophets are able Physicians and informed of the mysteries of the universe. They have Their finger on the pulse of the world, and They diagnose and foresee the ailments and illnesses which are to come. It is from the appearance, signs, and conditions of the universe itself that They infer these mysteries.  AB00689


Among other things, it was acknowledged by all that He had neither entered a school nor received a religious education. Nonetheless, His knowledge and perfections were well recognized. The learned men of Persia would submit to Him the difficult questions that perplexed their minds, and He would resolve them. To this day, and in spite of their hostility, the dignitaries of Persia bear witness to this matter.   AB00097

The stations of the Manifestations of Revelation and Dawning-places of inspiration are diverse, yet the universal Manifestations have been and are aware of all matters. Past and future exist not in that realm.   BH00962

There is treasured within this Youth a melody which, were even less than a needle's eye thereof to be disclosed, would cause the mountains to crumble, the leaves to wither, the fruits to fall from the trees, faces to bow down, and all countenances to turn toward this King Whom thou beholdest in the form of fire clothed in light, and at times thou seest Him as waves in this surging ocean, and at times thou beholdest Him as the Tree whose roots are firmly fixed in the earth of grandeur and whose branches and twigs have reached unto a station that hath transcended the Mighty Throne, and at times thou findest Him in the form of the Beloved in this Raiment which none among all creation can recognize, and were they to desire to know Him, they would swoon in their spirits, save him who cometh unto his Lord with a sound heart. Thus doth the Herald call out from My right hand, then the Speaker speak from My left, then the Proclaimer cry out from behind Me, and the Spirit from before Me, and the Tongue of God speak from above My head, saying: By God, this is indeed He Who hath been the Intended One from the beginning that hath no beginning, and this is the Face unto which all faces have turned, though they be now unaware.  BH00076
