Do not worship the Lantern--worship the light.   ABU3423

In this movement there will never be any paid ministers, no appointed clergy, no bishops, no cardinals, no popes, no ceremonies.   ABU2599

The object is: let the meeting be spiritual and productive of unity and harmony, so that when you leave the meeting you may feel much better than when you entered it. Let the meetings be as formless as possible. Crystallization of forms will kill the spirit. Let simplicity, naturalness, beauty of ideas, love and fellowship emanate from your meetings. The mother of all the questions is to promote the Cause and spread the Teachings.  ABU2097

When some follow merely the hard and fixed letter of the law, they deprive it (the Revelation) of its elastic quality--the spirit--and endeavour to convert it into a hard instrument of inflexible qualities.  ABU0180

Today all the believers of God must think of conveying the message, and not of the formation of committees; for there will be no result from the organization of the committees. It will be a name without significance.   AB04742

It is a spiritual gathering and should remain such until political affairs are adjusted. Houses of Justice must attain to the potency to be such. Abdul-Baha hopes that in time the Board may attain to a condition like that.  ABU1104


People think religion is confined in an edifice, to be worshipped at an altar. In reality it is an attitude toward divinity which is reflected through life. This movement eludes organization -- it is the realization of a new spirit.  ABU1955


The intention was to make known that by the term Spiritual Gathering (House of Spirituality), that Gathering has not the least connection with material matters, and that its whole aim and consultation is confined to matters connected with spiritual affairs.   AB03141

The Blessed Beauty established a foundation for us compared to which all the causes of the world are but children's toys, for that foundation is the spirit of the world and all other affairs and conditions are as the body. Surely the life of the body depends upon the spirit.   ABU2333

Some of the friends who have now made the pretext of assuming the character of dervishes are engaged in praising the Ancient Beauty through hints and allusions in corners and streets and marketplaces, and are accustomed to encouraging people by singing ghazals and spiritual songs. These souls should abandon this practice henceforth, but for now it is causing encouragement among the people and no one should interfere with them.   AB07416

Generally when ever the question of money comes up and arguments of a financial nature are vehemently presented, in many cases the people loose their spiritual fragrance. Therefore all the friends must dispatch the financial obligations of the Cause with the utmost joy and spirituality. Money questions must never become too prominent in any Baha'i community - thus driving away the spiritual mission of the Cause, i.e. to awaken the souls from sleep, to vivify them with the Breath of heavenly civilization and to guide them into the Rizwan of Reality.   ABU0889

Consider what enabled the apostles of Christ to succeed - was it through organizing assemblies or through establishing detachment, supplication and teaching? We too must now follow their way, otherwise it is certain that divine confirmation will cease and the radiance of eternal glory will not grow brighter day by day. AB09088

Dr. C.: They say that all organization is forbidden by the teachings.  Abdul Baha: That is all talk. The text of the Blessed Book cannot be changed. No one can interfere with it. Things not definitely stated in the Book are referred to the House of Justice. Whatever the House of Justice decides, that is obligatory. Now it is not possible for all the world to come together. The Convention is similar to the House of Justice to a certain extent. Its decision and laws must be carried out.  ABU3081


