
Spirit is the highest and supreme development of the soul.   ABU3225

By My life! This is the crown of all deeds in the sight of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.   BH00202

"And it is the spirit of faith that illumines the soul and give light to the human conscience."  AB04126

There is a human and a divine spirit, the latter coming through knowledge of and belief in God.  ABU2909

The bounty is dormant or latent in the hearts. Belief and faith make it appear, and become manifest.  ABU3088

Faith is the highest station of the world of humanity and conducive to eternal prosperity and success.   ABU0330

Verily bodies were moved by the breezes of revelation while forms remained still, being deprived of the spirit.   BH04557

The human spirit, which distinguishes man from animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms - the human spirit and the rational soul - refer to one and the same thing. This spirit, which philosophers call the rational soul, encompasses all other created things and, to the extent of human capacity, discovers the realities of things and gains knowledge of the properties and effects of contingent beings and the characteristics and particulars of physical existence. However, unless it is assisted by the spirit of faith, it will not become aware of divine mysteries and heavenly realities. It is like a mirror - though it be clear, delicate and bright, until the rays of the sun shine upon it, it cannot discover divine mysteries. AB02018

It is the reality of faith, the spirit of faith, which becomes the cause of this connection and the intercessor of the reception of this grace.  AB07638

For instance, a person may be apparently unsuited to receive the understanding; therefore the Spirit of Faith will be a Gift which GOD bestows upon whom He chooses.   ABU1271

This spirit of faith is the flame of reality, the life of humanity and the cause of eternal illumination. It inspires man to attain the virtues and perfections of the divine world.   ABU0586

One of the bounties of religion and faith is the attainment of peace of heart and soul and the joy of spirit and conscience. This station can only be gained through faith and understanding.   ABU1453

Faith is absolutely essential. We must believe or we will never move. Doubt and unbelief end in stagnation and death. Positive belief even if mixed with error leads by degrees towards Truth.  ABU0190

The three spirits - the vegetable spirit, the animal spirit and the human spirit (that is, the rational soul) - do not return after death to this world of the first creation. However, the spirit of faith, which is the light of guidance, and the Holy Spirit, which is the reality of divine revelation, both return in every dispensation and cycle to this realm of the first creation.  AB04973

That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Similarly, He said: Let the dead bury their dead, because those souls did not believe in God. Although they possessed the human spirit, they were deprived of the spirit of faith.  ABU0179

O noble seeker! By My life, if thou didst inhale the fragrance of faithfulness, I would cast upon thee a word which, shouldst thou hear it, would cause thee to soar in an atmosphere wherein thou wouldst hear from the rustling of its winds that there is no God but Him.   BH01497

The divine aspect or spiritual nature consists of the breaths of the Holy Spirit. The second birth of which Jesus has spoken refers to the appearance of this heavenly nature in man. It is expressed in the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and he who is baptized by the Holy Spirit is a veritable manifestation of divine mercy to mankind.  ABU0118

Again His Holiness Christ says, "Whosoever has not received a portion of the spirit is as dead. Let the dead bury their dead." In another place Christ says, "You must be baptized with the spirit." This Spirit is the life of the world of humanity; the cause of eternal illumination. It inspires man to attain to the virtues and perfections of the divine world.   ABU0655

Therefore, by spirit is meant divine grace; by water, knowledge and life; and by fire, the love of God. For material water cleanses not the heart of man but his body. Rather, the heavenly water and spirit, which are knowledge and life, cleanse and purify the heart of man. In other words, the heart that partakes of the outpouring grace of the Holy Spirit and becomes sanctified is made goodly and pure.  AB00674

As to the fourth degree of spirit, it is the heavenly spirit, which is the spirit of faith and the outpouring grace of the All-Merciful. This spirit proceeds from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and through a power born of God it becomes the cause of everlasting life. It is that power which makes the earthly soul heavenly and the imperfect man perfect. It cleanses the impure, unlooses the tongue of the silent, sanctifies the bondslaves of passion and desire, and confers knowledge upon the ignorant.   AB00266

The spirit of faith endows man with the capacity to love God and to know God. If the spirit of man, his perceiving soul, be confirmed by the spirit of faith so that it loves and knows God, and if it be guided by the guidance of God, and if the divine attributes be manifested in it, then there is a living soul which attains to eternal life. The spirit of faith is as the radiance of the lamp: and therefore those whose souls have not been led to the shadow of the wings of God are as though dead. The spirit of faith is like the ether regarded as the vehicle of light.   ABU0647


Faith is the centre of human virtues. Through the light of Faith justice is established.   ABU3374

Faith is like unto a brilliant lamp, and when it is kindled in the glass of the heart, its rays illuminate all the pillars thereof   AB08907

For faith, certitude and steadfastness in the Covenant depend on illumination of heart and soul, spiritual character and goodly deeds   AB06574

Your faith comes like rain; the first drops are far between, but soon it will pour in torrents. Your faith is also like a seed that will bear its fruit.  ABU0767

When the lamp of faith is kindled in the glass of heart and soul, its bright rays strike the pillars of being. When this brilliant light shines forth from the window of the tongue, it becomes speech and utterance. When its beams fall upon sight, it becomes insight and vision. When it strikes the ear, it becomes the hearkening ear. When it strikes the mind, it becomes recognition of the Merciful One. When it strikes the limbs, it becomes purity and worship of God.   AB06925

Man is not human by virtue of his body; man is human by virtue of his spirit. For in physical matters, man shares attributes with animals, but through the spirit he is distinguished from them. Consider how the rays of the sun illuminate the earth; likewise does the spirit illuminate bodies. It is the spirit that makes man heavenly; it is the spirit that makes man recipient of the Holy Spirit's breaths; it is the spirit that discovers the realities of things; it is the spirit that has produced all these effects; it is the spirit that has established all sciences; it is the spirit that bestows eternal life; it is the spirit that unites different nations; it is the spirit that brings together East and West; it is the spirit that makes the human world divine.  ABU0088

The divine spirit, which is of God's command, represents the holy power, divine confirmations, heavenly assistance, divine knowledge, and celestial sciences with which God aids whomsoever He willeth among His righteous servants. Through it they attain mystic revelations and undoubted visions, win the complete preceding mercy and abundant grace, enter the garden of oneness and the divine paradise, and rejoice and delight in what God hath given them of His bounty, thanking Him for His favors and blessings. BH01497
