
hearts are in constant spiritual conversation  AB00558

Spiritual association does not depend upon physical contact.  ABU0249

It is Love that establishes communication between the hearts of men. Love is the divine power which causes the ascension of man to all the heavenly stations.   ABU2256

Watchfulness, association, gentleness and love are essential.  AB11031

My spirit and heart are engaged in remembrance of the friends   AB05829

I am connected with you in spirit even though separated in body  AB03996

He asked me to write a letter and express spiritual heartfelt love.   AB06648

although the body is remote, the hearts and the souls are companions  AB10232

Not for a moment are you forgotten. Nay, at all times ye are remembered  AB02498

Letter was written with such spirit and fragrance as cannot be described  AB09290

As ye laboured, 'Abdu'l-Baha too was with you in spirit, heart and soul.  AB05168

Your sister mentions you during the hours of night and throughout the day  AB08361

If you are attracted by spiritual fragrances, I will always be with you.   ABU2828

for the hearts of the friends of Baha are mirrors reflecting the Abha Kingdom  AB04082

Though 'Abdu'l-Baha was physically distant, he was present in heart and soul.   AB11957

By My life! We have found the fragrance of My love in every word of thy letter   BH03568

how the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha is connected to the love of the loved ones of God   AB07071

My thoughts are turned towards you, and my heart leaps within me at your mention.  AB11451

though outwardly distant, is in truth present in the gathering, privy to secrets   AB04852

This is a remembrance from Us to him who hath believed in the One, the All-Knowing   BH10819

though I am physically absent, in truth I am present among them in spirit and heart  AB03112

I am now viewing the flowers in the little garden and remembering thy rose-like face.  AB04493

Yes, but they do not do it through medums nor in material ways, but in spiritual ways.  ABU3549

you must at every moment convey a message from the most exalted realm to the lower world  AB09856

Although I am bodily far and remote, yet in spirit I associate and am intimate with you.   AB06336

the holy spirits of those two pure souls may become joyous and glad in the luminous world   AB03388

The letter which you wrote to the honored Mirza 'Azizu'llah Khan Bahadur was read through.  AB12575

"he is ever engaged in thoughts and mention of thee and doth not forget thee for a moment"   AB08331

like one absent yet present, conversed with you and made mention of some spiritual matters   AB04924

When one perceives the fragrance of love from another, ultimate joy and delight is attained   AB04300

discussion of hearing spiritual events "with the ear of the spirit" versus physical hearing   AB02168

Although material communication hath been ceased, but spiritual contact hath been incessant.  AB12669

If I cannot see each one of you individually every day that should not undermine our real love.   ABU1849

In all days we are occupied with remembering and mentioning you in the realm of heart and spirit.  AB04960

the mystic voice is calling out these glad-tidings from the realm of the invisible for us to hear  AB12014

Unclose thy spiritual ear that thou mayest become intimate with the call of the celestial Herald.   AB06949

spiritual relations should also be established, for the foundation of these relations is spiritual  ABU2448

Though outwardly distant, you are in truth near and united, though apparently remote and separated.  AB11895

I wished to also express my longing to meet with you, though I left this to the heart's attractions.  AB02623

The face speaks with face, the eyes with eyes, the hearts with hearts, and the spirits with spirits.  ABU2268

There is no harm in this when hearts are in harmony and souls are attracted to the Light of Effulgence  AB12084

But it was possible to communicate with the dead through the condition of the character and the heart.  ABU3265

but another became the interpreter of their inner secret and revealed the hidden and protected mystery   AB06462

"Through divine bounties, without need for paper and pen, our spiritual communion will be everlasting."  ABU1134

Though physically distant, are spiritually near; though far to outward sight, are close in inner vision   AB04016

When two hearts are united together astonishing results will be seen. But a perfect union is necessary.   ABU3381

correspondence, in the estimation of them that have recognized the truth, is the perfection of communion   BH00455

Although this servant was not physically present in that gathering, in spirit I was intimate and present.  AB00894

Though I do not converse with you through the tongue, I commune with you through heart and soul and life.  ABU2219

through spiritual messengers and divine heralds, constant communication has continued without interruption  AB12069

The Spirit knoweth the spirit, the Spirit addresseth the spirit and the Spirit associateth with the spirit.  AB05388

Sometimes you write letters to Mr. Minshadi which he forwards, providing drops of water to thirsty hearts.   AB12143

spiritual communications occur in any case and bounties and gifts are not dependent on the issuance of letters  AB04440

At that time we will draw unto each other in spirit, a nearness which will be eternal, everlasting and endless.  AB04920

In the Kingdom of holiness they chant the verses of the supreme gift and encourage you to follow their example   AB03621

The spiritual connection is firm and the divine love is established. The heart is full of enthusiasm like the sea  AB05323

Consider what a bounty the Lord of creation hath bestowed, that hearts have become thus connected to one another.  AB10499

Though outwardly they may be in distant lands, in reality they are close companions. At every moment I remember thee  AB09270

I shall never forget thee. I remember thee always and desire for thee heavenly illumination and Baha'i spirituality.  AB06281

when hearts face each other and thought and contemplation take hold, connection and unity and harmony become realized  AB06373

Although outwardly you are far and separated, yet in spirit you are present and the manifestation of abundant grace.   AB04310

For four years communication between us was cut off, but with heart and soul the spiritual messenger was continuous.   AB03328

Not a moment passes but that you come to mind, and not a breath is drawn but that your mention becomes our companion.  AB02239

The portals of the Kingdom are wide open and the inner ears are continually attuned to the Voice of the Lord of Hosts  AB04766

Although receipt of letters is disrupted, the spiritual connections remain firm and strong - this is the foundation.   AB01127

I beseech God that thou mayest make Kurdistan a rose-garden and illuminate that land with the light of the love of God  AB12483

But the good souls are given eternal life, and sometimes God permits their thoughts to reach the earth to help people.  ABU3101

Though we are distant in the world of dust, yet by virtue of the pure realm we are near, gathered in a single assembly.  AB08577

With mine inner ear I hear your call and with mine inner sense I inhale the sweet savours of the garden of your hearts.  AB06457

You should speak about spiritual and godly things, in order that your souls may be revived and your minds be made pure.  ABU1483

There is no greater connection in the human world than the attachment of hearts - even a chain of iron is not as strong.  AB08727

When the friends are remembered, the heart and soul become adorned with the flowers and fragrances of hoped-for bounties.  AB05792

and become intimate with the denizens of the Supreme Concourse, that thou mayest receive fresh inspiration in every moment  AB09430

Therefore, spiritual correspondence between me and you is continuous, and conscientious feelings are constant and enduring.  AB01378

Thy letter contained most cheering good news and indicated the oneness of spiritual state that exists amongst the believers   AB03589

From the intense connection that exists between hearts, we are day and night eagerly awaiting news and hoping to receive word.  AB08441

And with pure hearts, 'Abdu'l-Baha has complete and sufficient communion with the friends from heart and soul at every moment.  AB06815

Physical meeting has no importance. The meeting is spiritual. Therefore, they should not be unhappy. They should be rejoiced.   ABU0670

Though the distance is great and the boundless ocean lies between us, you are companions and confidants, friends and intimates   AB04495

Through his tongue, heart and soul, 'Abdu'l-Baha communicates his love to the recipient and offers prayers for divine assistance  AB10194

"But I swear by the Most Great Name that in the world of spirit and heart I am and have always been engaged in remembering you."  AB02339

The Blessed Leaves, particularly Her Highness, the Greatest Holy Leaf, constantly make mention of thee and remember thee fondly.  AB04969

The nearness and remoteness of the physical world has no importance, for true affection and connection is of the heart and soul.   AB06972

The traces of the Pen of love and purity have bestowed purity upon the world and removed the dust of events from hearts and souls.  BH01951

When I circumambulate around the point of attraction of the hearts of the denizens of the Kingdom, I immediately call thee to mind  AB09494

A letter arrived from Furugh and when opened it had a radiance and light. The words were like glass and the meanings like a lamp.   AB02977

They were most pleased and happy with thee. In such a gathering they engaged in thy remembrance and became intimate with thy memory.  AB08250

Although outwardly we are separated, in reality we are always intimately connected in heart and spirit and ever present and watchful  AB04175

Correspondence and communication are the two greatest means for solidarity. It is said that Correspondence is equal to half-meeting.  AB08449

This is like two mirrors opposite each other; and from the other, back to the first; for it is the one sun which shines in them both.   ABU0698

Night and day we are not free from mentioning those spiritual beloved ones and divine friends, and we beseech confirmation and success.  AB07429

Although I cannot converse with you in detail, my heart and spirit converse with you and share secrets without the tongue of utterance.  ABU2855

When this connection exists, bodily separation is not important; this condition is beyond the world of words and above all description.  ABU2460

"In truth, letters have been and are half of meeting and encounter. In any case, they are the cause of gladness and the source of joy."   BH02596

this servant has taken up the pen so that a drop from the oceans of love surging in the heart might flow through the channel of the pen   BH02450

such a connection, harmony and union has been achieved that on such a night, I am intimately engaged in remembrance of that kind friend   AB06127

Surely spiritual connections are a thousand times greater than physical connections. Spiritual presence is greater than physical presence.  AB00832

Although up to this time I have not written thee yet spiritual communication united the hearts and ideal correspondence was uninterrupted.   AB05485

Although material communication is cut off and no proper and sufficient correspondence can be maintained, you are nevertheless in my heart.  ABU3689

O thou who gazest upon the face that is turned toward the Kingdom of Abha and the hidden and invisible Dominion! Commune in prayer and say:  AB10124

There is no time for details and the path of communication is blocked. Despite this, various means have been attempted to send this letter.   AB06701

Though the mirror and the lights have no physical connection, yet the relationship of rays and reflected effulgences is firm and continuous.  AB03985

Communicate with me by whatsoever means thou wishest. Verily, I hear thy wonderful melodies in sanctifying and glorifying thy Glorious Lord.  AB10206

In any case, whether it be difficult or easy, you are ever before my eyes and are not forgotten. I am always thinking of those loving friends  AB07809

I swear by the Ancient Beauty, the sweetness of the company of true friends, like honey, makes the palate of heart and soul sugary and sweet.  AB08589

Praise be to God that our companionship, love and fellowship remain firm, for our intimacy is at the Sacred Threshold of the All-Glorious Lord   AB05687

In truth, in the realms of spirit and heart, correspondence and communication are continuous and established without any interruption whatsoever.  AB02808

Yes, surely sincere prayer always has its effect, and it has a great influence in the other word. We are never cut off from those who are there.   ABU3450

Come thou forth that I may hear thy melodies and thou mayest hear Mine  BH03614

After these meetings there is no separation, there is a union that knows no dispersion. The president of that gathering is His Holiness Baha'u'llah.  ABU2640

describes spiritual connection despite physical separation; "in spirit and heart I am the intimate companion and confidant of the spiritual friends"   AB03818

I send thee the answer spiritually so that the signs of the address may become manifest in thy heart. Verily thou art with me in spirit at all times.   AB05391

I trust that the ideal bonds of spiritual communication may ever become stronger and firmer between us. These celestial ties of communion are eternal.   ABU1468

Given this connection, there is no disconnection that would necessitate expression through speech. Souls and hearts are in conversation with each other  AB11892

If there is outward delay in sending letters, there is no harm, for praise be to God, the inner doors are open and spiritual missives are in circulation.  BH06073

There is a spiritual communication. You are always associating or affiliating with Me. Although outwardly far away physically, but in spirit you are near.  ABU1514

You will establish a connection between the divine realm and the material world, and become an intermediary between the realm of place and placelessness.   AB03747

"Though it was brief, the communication between hearts is detailed. The spiritual messenger and the conscientious courier are constantly coming and going."  AB05135

Physical distance has no effect - the far is near and the absent is present, for spiritual affinity exists between us and divine connection is established.  AB02258

Likewise, though I was remote in so far as the body is concerned, I was near to the friends in heart and spirit and close to the believers in that assembly.  AB09735

Although the physical tongue and earthly pen and ink may grow weary, yet the spiritual tongue and the conscious pen are ever engaged in speech and writing.   AB06095

"But praise be to God, that despite the fact that Baha'is do not know one another's language, they understand with their hearts and become infinitely happy."  ABU0950

Many were the nights and days we conversed with perfect joy and spirit, spoke of God's eternal bounty, and gave glad tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom  AB03693

Though a thousand leagues of mountain, plain and desert separate us, yet the fragrance of love perfumes our nostrils and fills our souls with its sweet scent.  AB08036

You are ever my companion and confidant; despite the distance from Shiraz, you are before me and in my thoughts, though outwardly you are in Khata and Khutan   AB06928

Abdul-Baha was present in spirit and heart although absent in body. That meeting was exceedingly bright, and as the rose-garden, emitted a pleasant fragrance.  AB01892

Although I have not attained the honor of your presence physically, yet by virtue of "souls are like recruited troops" I have found the cord of love connected   BB00558

among the friends there is speech and utterance without lips or tongue, and without pen, ink and paper there is correspondence in the realm of heart and spirit  AB04843

when 'Abdu'l-Baha remembers the faces and city of those dear ones, his surroundings become like the land of Khutan and his gathering becomes fragrant with musk  AB05147

Thou art present in spirit in a meeting (in Acca) in which the gifts of God are radiating, even though thou art remote in regard to body in the far away land.   AB05976

It is as though the breathings of the Holy Spirit appear from the effect of your pen and the effulgences of the light of fellowship shine forth from its letters.  BH04304

For this love emanates from connection with the love of the Ancient Beauty and is in truth a wave from the waves of the Most Great Sea in this greatest gathering  AB04034

My spirit communicates with you. It annihilates space and time. There are some believers in Persia with whom my spirit always speaks but I have never seen them.   ABU2741

he constantly has your mention on his tongue - indeed it forms the very words of his prayers. He remembers you often verbally and always continuously in his heart  AB07360

Though they are physically far, they are spiritually present in the gathering, and though they are outwardly separated, in heart they are in the inhabited House.   AB02404

Rest assured that I do not rest for a moment without remembering the friends, and my tongue adorns itself with nothing but praise of the servants of the Threshold.  AB12434

in the spiritual world I shall seek heavenly outpourings for you at every moment. At dawn, turn to the Abha Kingdom and you will find 'Abdu'l-Baha as your companion.  AB12095

Strive as much as thou canst to establish a firm connection with the Abha Kingdom and to hear continuously the call of the Supreme Concourse with thy spiritual ears.  AB09292

your books of acceptance, sincerity, orientation, mention, praise, love and faithfulness are present before His face, and have attained both His sight and His hearing  BH02568

Although you are far and remote in that land, yet you are present and renowned at the Sacred Threshold. Nearness is through heart and soul, not through the weak body.  AB04870

Know, verily, I was with you in spirit during your assemblage in the meeting of the commemoration of God...and I perceived ye with my spirit on the Mount of Salvation  AB03256

By My life! The Most Exalted Pen hath been moved to make mention of thee in My mighty and impregnable Tablet, and through it tongues shall be opened in thy remembrance  BH10946

At this hour when a group of friends are present and witnessing, this servant has taken up the pen and written this letter so that you may read and know and be certain  AB07104

O Lord! Assist him to diffuse the divine fragrances, and enable him to promote the Words, to gladden hearts with joyful tidings and to remove sorrows through good news.  AB04155

He talks with me in midnights. He wakes me in the morning. Throughout the cities and over the seas, in the mountains and valleys he has been my companion and intimate.   ABU2662

The spiritual communication was continuous, uninterrupted. This is a matter of faith, not based on historical records. This is a matter of conscience, a matter of belief.  ABU1834

This bond is heavenly and this love is a divine bounty. Otherwise, what connection could there be between the prisoner of 'Akka and the free one in the mansion of Tihran?  AB09239

the contents of your esteemed letter were filled with truths and meanings. Praise be to God that the bonds of love and heart connection remain firmly linked like a chain.   AB11979

Though outwardly in distant lands, in reality they are close companions. At every moment I remember thee, seek thy joy, implore confirmations for thee, and pray for thy success.  AB09270

In truth, letters are divine messengers that arrive from the cities and regions of love, affection, fellowship and unity.  BH01305

His ancient outpourings continue upon you, His lights shine upon you, the fragrances of His holiness waft over you, and the breezes from the gardens of His Kingdom blow upon you   AB03833

I associate with heart and consciousness with firm friends and speak with them without lip or tongue and discuss with them the divine mysteries which are abiding in heart and soul  AB05676

I speak unto thee through the tongue of my spirit, from the spiritual direction, and explain for thee the mysteries of the kingdom and the meanings of the sacred, heavenly books.   AB07048

I am in the blessed place of the Holy Land and thou art in foreign parts and I do not see thee with my material eyes, but I see thee with the eyes of my heart and I remember thee   AB07095

Glory be to God! What a bounty has been bestowed upon the human world that a mere trace has the effect of the morning breeze and news becomes the illumination of heart and sight.   AB00571

The essence of correspondence is this: to be imprinted upon the Tablet of the heart. This (correspondence) is sent to thee without intermission by the Faithful Messenger of Spirit.  AB04859

O handmaid of God! The reality of the divine meeting is spiritual in nature, and the essence of discourse belongs to that realm. Praise be to God that thou hast attained thereunto.  AB04858

Though I say that letters, pens and inkwells may reveal mysteries, yet the hearts of the friends are the true interpreters, and the feelings of the soul are sufficient and complete.  AB08578

His remembrance is spiritual nearness and His mention is spiritual reunion. When thou art thus engaged, thou art in His presence and His intimate companion, though thou be in Yemen   AB05598

Though we cannot see each other physically at this time, thank God the Spiritual Breath is a messenger between us, which is the means of assuring the heart and rejoicing the spirit.  AB04813

The letter you wrote to Jinab-i-Mirza Ahmad arrived. Do not call it a letter - it was a musk-scented fragrance, for the sweet aroma of the love of God was inhaled from its contents.  AB05212

Convey My greetings unto My loved ones, that the fragrance of thy Lord's glorification may be wafted abroad and may draw unto it their hearts and the hearts of all who turn unto Him.  BH11680

Since it has been some time that we have not revealed the secrets of hearts through written traces, and have not spread the musk-fragrance of spiritual love through pages and tablets  AB06466

There is a spiritual language and that is one language. It is a language by which the hearts speak to one another. It is not the language of utterance, but the language of the heart.  ABU2173

Our hearts are always together and the Bounty of the Kingdome of Abha binds our spirits in one. For have we not one aim, one desire and one prayer? Therefore we are always together.   ABU1062

That spirit can communicate with spirit is proven by the known fact of teaching...So soul can communicate with soul and in the realms of existence such intercommunication is possible.  ABU2773

"For a period of time no news hath been outwardly received from thee, but spiritual communications are continual (between us). Thou hast always been remembered and been present here."  AB02589

If you knew how precious your thoughts are in this court, you would surely spread the wings of joy and fly from this realm of a thousand doors to the nest of the most luminous Kingdom.  AB02979

The essential meeting is that spiritual attachment (or union) and heartfelt feelings; when this gift becometh manifest, heavenly bounties will be attained and hopes shall be fulfilled.  AB05272

Although correspondence is cut off, hearts are connected and spirits are gathered together. This separation and remoteness exists in the earthly world, not in the pure soul and spirit.   AB11925

This spiritual communication and mutual exchange of thoughts is conditioned upon certain facts that prepare the person in this world to communicate with the spirit of his departed ones.   ABU2405

This is a spiritual union which is eternal. They cannot be separated, for it is of the spirit and realities of the spirit are eternal. This union is the strength of two united into one.   ABU1383

Truly I have read thy eloquent letter and my heart was uplifted by its contents, for know truly, 'Abdu'l-Baha has spiritual discourses, heavenly conversation and revelation of the heart.  AB12422

And if my Lord ordains for me this supreme gift, I will address you from that most exalted realm and send you spiritual letters which express the holy fragrances that perfume the horizons   AB04146

The communications of the heart are not limited by place or time. The things which are subject to place and time will end; that which is free from place and time is eternal and established.  ABU1220

He remembered the friends and thought of you, requesting that this letter be written. The remembrance of friends is auspicious to the Friend, especially as this Layli belongs to that Majnun.  AB08333

I take up my pen to write so you may know that I am not free from remembering the friends for a moment... in my heart I spend day and night in remembrance and mention of the divine loved ones   AB03114

This is spiritual relationship. Often two brothers, reared in the same family, are antagonistic toward each other, but you two are remote from each other, are in reality as brother and sister.   ABU2820

Those who understand can converse with me thus for night and day I cry, "Ya Baha El-Abha," and I proclaim the kingdom of BAHA'O'LLAH so that intelligent hearts can understand the significance.   ABU2113

Although outwardly we are far and separated from each other, in reality we are gathered and familiar in the assembly of joy and gladness under the shadow of the providence of the Forgiving Lord   AB06415

O thou whom I mention with my heart and tongue! Though I do not see thee with mine eyes, I do see thee with my heart, and mention thee with the fullness of love, clemency, yearning and attraction  AB08426

They are immersed in the sea of mercy and success is their best companion. They are servants of the Blessed Beauty and maidservants of the Most Great Name and associates of the Sacred Threshold.   AB00359

For some time no message or word has been received from you. I know you will say that no reply has come. You are right, and as the well-known saying goes, You win whether it comes up even or odd.  AB09229

Perhaps through the harmony of heart and spirit and pen and letter, the sweet fragrances of ancient companionship may reach the hearts and souls of the friends in the gathering of the Gracious Lord.  AB05211

I am greatly moved because I saw the love of Baha'u'llah in you, I witnessed the light of Baha'u'llah in your beings. I am so moved that I cannot speak. I leave it to your hearts to feel what I feel.  ABU1379

Separation is a burning fire; if it leads to reunion it becomes a fire heralding light, just as the Tree of Sinai first appeared in the form of fire and later manifested with a light above all lights.   BH02819

The state of those who are attracted and sincere is transmitted from heart to heart. The tongue hath no access there and the pen is truly a stranger, while the inner tongue speaketh secretly these words  BH00640

Though you are in that land and we are in this realm, and the distance between us is without bound or limit, yet in spirit we are in one gathering, and in heart we are in one assembly and dwelling place  AB03518

Thy mention was made in the gathering of the divine friends and was recorded in the writings of the servants of the All-Merciful. I was pleased to remember thee and to make mention of thee with the pen.  AB12725

Without a messenger they send letters, and with the heart they share secrets. Without a pen they write, and without meeting they seek reunion, and in the very midst of separation they attain to nearness.  BH05638

Although the distance is great, occupations and engagements many, and trials severe, despite all this I have at this moment turned to remember those precious friends and found solace in their remembrance  AB00529

Even if the sun is very distant from the earth, yet by its rays it is connected with the earth. Christ spoke: "The sons of the realms of God will go out but others from far away will enter the Kingdom!"   ABU1917

Though the distance between us is far, yet the connections of our hearts are strong...this heart is in the utmost eagerness to meet thine and this soul is in the greatest state of attraction to thy soul.  AB12706

During the days I was in London, you were my neighbor, therefore you are counted as kith and kin. In gratitude for this bounty, you must arise to serve and prove and establish your neighborliness before all   AB05843

'Abdu'l-Baha has spiritual communication with them, has heartfelt connection with them, and has eternal bonds with them. Therefore, correspondence with that Assembly continues constantly with heart and soul.  AB06162

Despite having absolutely no free time, I nonetheless turned my thoughts to you and engaged in writing this letter, so that you might know how precious the loved ones of the Ancient Beauty are in this court.  AB06184

Now is the time for you to say what is in your heart, for until now there has not been an opportunity for me to meet with you and address the pains in your heart. Now say whatever your troubled heart desires.  ABU2994

The tongue of the soul is the tongue-less tongue. The spirit speaks in every language, in no particular tongue. When hearts are connected the spirit speaks eloquently provided the hearts are related together.  ABU1813

Although spiritual messages and divine greetings arrive continuously without interruption or disconnection, since the very act of remembering and thinking is itself a letter, message, greeting and salutation   AB03283

You went to Haifa while you were present in the illumined heart and visible to the inner sight. It is as though you were not absent - rather, your absence is presence and your passage through the heart is joy.  AB06494

"such communication that as soon as the mirror of the heart is cleansed from the rust of worldly thoughts, immediately thou shalt find me reflected therein, and all the mountains, seas and deserts annihilated"  AB03622

I am always with you and although I am far from you in body, yet in spirit I am ever near and present amidst you all. At heart I am attached to you and the connective waves of my sensations are never interrupted.   ABU1694

For some time no glad tidings, like the breeze from the rose-garden of love, have arrived from thee, and the nostrils of the longing ones have not been perfumed by the fragrance from the soul-garden of the friends.  AB09286

For some time I have not corresponded with you, nor shared inner secrets, nor expressed heartfelt sentiments. Yet I was always mindful of you and would beseech the Court of Divine Unity for confirmation and success   AB04749

Turn the mirrors of your hearts toward Mine. Unquestionably the mysteries of this Heart shall be reflected upon those hearts and the emotions of this longing One will become evident and manifest in all the regions.   AB03889

Mrs. Merriman: You must tell him that I have been his follower for twenty-five years before I ever knew that there was a leader, or before I ever knew any one in the world had my belief in the world, except myself.   ABU1909

It is as if I talk with thee and meet thee; for distance hath no place in the realm of love and affection and the spiritual world dependeth not on physical nearness and remoteness. It is utmost union and fellowship.  AB11016

Although the physical distance is very close, yet in the realm of love and friendship this small distance seems very far, such that upon receipt of your letter, in truth the joy of meeting and reunion was experienced.  BH06492

My letter continuously arrives and reaches that kind friend. In times of leisure, when oriented toward the Holy Shrine, observe carefully how spiritual letters and the clear Book arrive through the trusted messenger.   AB02534

That bird of the meadow of guidance hath hastened to the rose-garden of reality, and he hath left these companions as his heritage that after his return to the divine homeland, ye might irrigate the field he hath sown   AB07227

O my spiritual beloved! The days of association and intimacy are not forgotten and the sweetness of that love and meeting is still tasted in my heart. Praise be to God! Its signs are apparent and its results manifest.   AB06400

From the day of our separation, feelings of love have been continuous. I have always remembered you and sought assistance and bounty for you. In Paris, the loved ones of God were very eager to see you and mentioned you.  AB08057

The contents of thy last letter were extremely rejoicing, for they were a glorious evidence of the glowing of the fire of the love of God, of attainment to the gift of God and of the spiritual connection of the spirits.  AB02307

The musk-laden fragrances of meaning and utterance are diffused in every moment and instant, and the correspondence and letters of the friends of God, like caravans from Yemen bearing divine knowledge, are ever arriving.  BH02414

Praised be the Lord, there exist bonds of the heavenly Kingdom, and the hearts are alive with the spirit of faith. These spiritual bonds suffer to rend near that which is far and cause him to be present he who is absent.  AB01730

"Consider the by-gone times. There occurred a meeting like this one--that is to say, that meeting emanated from the attractions of the conscience. It was due to the spiritual bond. It was due to the fraternity of heaven."  ABU0105

Though outwardly you were not blessed with attaining His presence and did not appear before Him, yet you were the recipient of the Ancient Beauty's favor and were regarded by the Most Great Name's eye of loving-kindness.  AB07875

Know this much that in this divine gathering your remembrance is like a bright candle and mention of you in hearts is like a rose garden and flower bed. Although you may have forgotten us, we will never forget at any time   AB04991

and commune with You in the depths of dawn in gratitude for Your abundant blessings, Your preceding mercy, Your conclusive proof, Your bounties descending from heaven, and Your table spread from Your Most Glorious Kingdom   AB02864

Although in separation and deprivation, letters and writings are better companions, yet the fragrances from the gardens of hearts are the greatest means for consoling souls through the glorious bounties of the Mighty Lord.  AB00939

The other kind of farewell has no forgetfulness - this is the condition of the believers of Baha'u'llah, who grow closer in heart the further they become physically separated, and have a connection that knows no severance.  ABU1740

In every gathering that is adorned with the mention of God and where the friends associate with utmost love, surely the heart and soul of 'Abdu'l-Baha is present and shares in that ecstasy and joy, both absent and present.   AB05361

That spiritual connection and heavenly bond which is the explicit letter that knoweth no severance and is sanctified from pen and paper. Rather, it is inscribed upon the tablets of hearts and recorded in the inmost shrines.  AB01617

Although correspondence was cut off for some time, yet the connection remains firm, for the unifying Word has linked hearts in such a way that absence is the same as presence, and lack of news causes intensity of connection.   AB11714

Therefore, O Chief, install one end of the wire in the center of the heart and extend and connect the other end to the highest realm, so that the current of inspiration may continuously express the wisdom of the All-Merciful.  AB05201

If thou art able, fix one end of the wire at the center of transmission and connect the other end to the Supreme Concourse, that thou mayest hear the mystery of the Self-Sufficient Lord and give tidings from the Abha Kingdom   AB05423

Consider how you are in Germany and I am in the Holy Land - a thousand leagues apart - yet due to the intensity of love we were present and embodied before each other, and without voice or tongue we conversed with one another.   AB12192

This heart is so enkindled with love for the friends that it cannot be described. Like a fresh sapling it is stirred by the breeze of remembrance of the friends, and is intimate and harmonious with the mention of the loved ones.  AB05223

Each bosom must be a telegraph station -- one terminus of the wire attached to the soul, the other fixed in the Supreme Concourse -- so that inspiration may descend from the Kingdom of Abha and questions of reality be discussed.   ABU1721

Although bodily thou wert exceedingly remote, yet in spirit thou wert extremely near and the heart was associating and affiliating with thee. This is because spiritual bonds in the Kingdom of God eternally remain firm and strong.   AB11960

Through God's grace, it is hoped that we may be companions in all the worlds and intimate associates in the realm of the Kingdom, moment by moment. Be confident and joyful through the abundant grace of the Sovereign of Revelation.  AB09326

The friends in all parts are expecting the news from the Holy land, especially the Eastern friends. On his return he may stop in all the cities through which he is going to pass and write to other centres which are not on his way.  ABU1224

The servant who was present hath brought thy letter and read it before the Wronged One. We perceived from it the fragrance of thy remembrance and praise, and thy steadfastness in this Cause whereby the mountains have been crushed.   BH00198

Night and day I remember thee and have not a moment's rest, but due to the multitude of occupations I must content myself with communing with thee in spirit. Thou art ever before me and in my heart - we are companions and intimates  AB08795

Not a moment passes by day or night but that thou comest to mind of the yearning ones and art remembered by the friends...These spiritual bonds are God's mighty cord which can suffer no weakness, lassitude, slackness or deficiency.  AB01336

Although for some time there hath been no outward correspondence or communication, the reality of the heart hath been vibrating with the remembrance of the friends of God, stirring like a breeze and surging like an encompassing sea.  AB09710

The servant of the Divine Threshold, Abdu'l-Baha, ever remembers you and makes mention of you, beseeching assistance and bounty from the Court of the Divine Unity, adorning the house of the heart with the remembrance of the faithful  AB08734

Thy letter was received, and the copy of the message from the friends in the West to the loved ones in the East was perused. Its contents were replete with diverse meanings and indicated the utmost love, steadfastness and constancy.  AB11161

Though there may be a hundred thousand leagues of distance, and mountains and plains may intervene and prevent physical sight, yet the heart is near and the soul is intimate and companionable both in the bright day and the dark night.  AB09881

The secret whispers and melodies of heart and soul are attraction to and love of the Beloved, and the protected symbol and concealed mystery is the knowledge of the All-Merciful Lord. This is the firm and strong connection between us.   AB05804

Although the physical eye is deprived, praise be to God that spiritual insight is privy to the mysteries of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting. You are present in the divine court and exist and are witnessed in the heavenly gathering.  AB04756

that a blessed soul from the inhabitants of America, while in the Holy Land, mentioned to Abdul-Baha the name of a man living in Asia, and with the utmost devotion requests the writing of a Tablet. Praise be to God! What a communication!  AB05981

Though outwardly this letter is but traces upon paper, in reality it is the breathings of the spirit and the cause of victory. It imparts the intoxication of the heavenly wine and wafts the fragrance from the gardens of the Abha Kingdom.  AB12601

Although outwardly pen and paper and leaf are the means of connection and expression of love and aspiration, yet in the eyes of those endowed with insight, this is that universal connection which has moved and continues to move the world.  BH00938

I hope from His boundless grace that He will make the spiritual bonds so firm and strong that there will be no need for pen and paper. The purpose is to be ever a companion and intimate friend, and always an associate and close companion.  AB04036

Although thou wert not present in body at this Threshold, yet in spirit thou art, God willing, present at all times. They made mention of thee at this Court, engaged in remembrance of thee, and requested that mention be made on thy behalf.  AB07889

the blessed sacred leaf, your mother, constantly remembers you, has not a moment's rest, turns to the two blessed Holy Persons, seeks nearness to the Court, desires protection from the arrows of trials, and makes pilgrimage on your behalf   AB04486

Know that you are present now in spirit, a confidant and intimate companion. I hope through God's bounty that wherever you are, whatever you do, whatever you think, whatever occupation you pursue, you will be here in spirit and conscience   AB02084

Its Bestowals have established communication between the spirits. Its principles have ushered in a new era of spiritual brotherhood! Ere long ye shall observe that the splendours of the Kingdom of Abha have illumined the East and the West!   ABU1824

but there was a clear messenger and faithful courier between us, and that reciprocal feeling of heart and conscience. Praise be to God that for this reason the spiritual connections are continuous and the conscientious feelings are sustained   AB12068

The real meeting consists in the communication of heart. I hope that this communication will become strong, for the hearts which are spiritually related to each other, their meetings are eternal, both in this world and in the Universe of God.  AB10543

I swear by the Ancient Beauty that at all times we are gladdened by your mention and occupied with your remembrance. Forgetfulness finds no path to the heart and consciousness of those who long for you, and weakness and lassitude cannot enter.  AB09606

For day and night my call is "Ya Baha El Abha" and summoning the people to the Kingdom of Abha. The Knowing hearts comprehend these significances. The souls who turn their faces toward God will behold the lights of the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah.   ABU1788

Therefore, those who circle the Kaaba of mystic knowledge and the lovers of the Beauty of the All-Merciful have a spiritual connection and a true and essential unity which results from the original unity and the realization of spiritual affection.  AB01092

Ye are the chanting birds, the mellifluous nightingales, and the divine parrots of Ind so sing ye all, without restrain and raise aloft your melodies. Perchance the ears of men may hearken thereunto and the hearts unravel the mysteries of your songs.   AB01492

The beloved of God must, like the roses of the rose-garden, send fragrant messages from one another, receive strength from one another, and co-operate together, by the strength of the Kingdom. There is no greater means than communion and communication.  AB07150

"I do greet thee from this Exalted Place, while thou art in that far distant country, and present to thee salutations and praise, and I see thee with the eye of the heart as though thou were present here and I speak to thee by the tongue of the Spirit"  AB04980

When this servant imagines that gathering, I find a new spirit and obtain great joy, and from afar I say: O gathering of friends! When you engage in remembrance of the All-Merciful in holy gatherings and intimate assemblies, remember this yearning one   AB01825

The beloved of God are endowed with a particular language through which they express their feelings and converse with one another. The sun speaks to the existing beings, the cloud communicates with the earth and the gentle breeze whispers to the trees.  ABU0476

When an Easterner meets a Westerner this immediately resulteth in fellowship, whereas two intimate brothers from the same parents avoid and detest each other. What does this indicate to? Is it not a proof for the unity of souls and spiritual fellowship?   AB05930

spiritual letters are continually and uninterruptedly descending from the Supreme Concourse and the Kingdom of ABHA. That holy Messenger is eternal and perennial and His messages come to the heart successively and the verses of oneness are read therein.   AB03743

O long-time friend! For some time you have forgotten your friend and remained silent in remembering him - no greeting, no message, no messenger, and no word - despite knowing that you are always in my thoughts and are present in the gathering of my heart.  AB09382

O thou who gazest upon the Abha Kingdom! Thus far numerous letters have been sent, and drops from the surging oceans of love that wave in the essence of the heart have been expressed. And now again we have thought of thee and set about penning this letter.  AB08920

Consider carefully the bounty and grace of God: the friends are in Adhirbayjan and this Servant of Baha in the land of Canaan. There is a distance of a thousand leagues. Notwithstanding this, the spiritual ties are firm and the divine light showeth the way.  AB08402

Though we may be hidden from outward sight, in the world of heart and soul we are visible and manifest. Though the body may be far removed, the spirit is ever intimate with the grace of meeting and presence, and hearts are close and connected to each other.  ABU0738

Though ye are in that region and we in this, yet we are neighbors and companions, intimates and dwellers in the same place, for we abide beneath the shade of the same Tree of Hope and dwell in the same Paradise of Delight. We are in one gathering and one home.  AB07698

They see all as it affects the spirit. A great joy, a great sorrow, a sin, or a good deed: as these things darken or cloud the soul, or cause it to rise into greater light, so they see every earth event that touches you for good or ill, reflected in your soul.  ABU3249

Convey to the friends in Khusf, Khunik and Derakhsh the heart's attachment and spiritual connection of Abdu'l-Baha, especially convey to the spiritual elder and the spiritual youth this servant's heartfelt salutations and the yearning of spirit and conscience.  AB11791

Then soar on the wing of knowledge to the most distant station that thou mayest hear the melodies of God from the direction of the Divine Lote-Tree, and shouldst thou fly once more thou wouldst hear again that which no ear among the people of wisdom hath heard.  BH03548

Again I write and am gladdened and pleased to remember you. I grow neither weary nor tired, for the glad tidings of the Abha Kingdom give such strength that at every moment new life is gained and one becomes alive through remembrance and mention of the friends.   AB07357

At every moment thou art the companion of my heart, and at every hour present in my thoughts, for thou art an ancient friend and a companion of old. Through God's grace, it is my hope that we may be companions in all worlds and intimate associates in the Kingdom.  AB09326

The beloved of God although they are far away in body, in reality, in spirit, they are present. They exist here, though they are not present. If spiritual meeting were not possible I would go to meet all the believers in America, because I am anxious to meet them.   ABU1011

The answer is what is written on the tablet of your heart. That which is written upon paper is subject to corruption and various accidents, such as consumption by fire and moth, but that which is inscribed on the tablet of the heart is imperishable and everlasting.  ABU2512

In truth, thou art present in this gathering, and night and day we are intimate companions. Indeed, in the private chamber of the heart of the friends we are confidants of one another, and in the secret sanctuary of the soul we are intimate companions day and night.  AB12569

Thy letter was received. It was a proof to thy faith and assurance. The heart and the spirit of Abdul Baha is extremely tender. Therefore, continually he begs from the Kingdom of Abha inexhaustible favors for the friends of God and the maidservants of the Merciful.   AB07534

The electric current arrived bearing news of thy arrival. This news was a clear glad-tiding and a trustworthy herald. After being informed, we proceeded to the Holy Court where it was presented before the countenance of the Lord and was blessed to attain His hearing.  BH01722

Although I have been deprived and separated from seeing the faces of friends with my eyes, praise be to God I am a companion and confidant in heart and soul, and not a moment passes that you do not come to mind, not a breath goes by except that you cross my thoughts.  AB02276

O ancient friend! For some time now you have forgotten your friend and remained silent in remembering him - no greetings, no message, no messenger, and no word - even though you know that you are always in my thoughts and are the companion in the gathering of my heart.  AB09382

Though absent you are present, though hidden you are manifest - that is, you are beloved of the hearts of friends and mentioned in the gathering of friends. We are occupied with your remembrance at the Sacred Threshold and intimate with your memory in the sanctified meetings.  AB03950

For the servants of the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty have spiritual connections and established spiritual attachments. Even if outwardly they do not write or speak, inwardly they are captivated by love for one another and are companions and associates of each other.   AB02267

O fruit of the Tree of Mercy! A letter was sent several days ago, and now too this letter is being written through His Holiness the Martyr, son of the Martyr, so that you may know that you are always mentioned in this presence and are witnessed and renowned in this gathering.   AB06715

Due to the intensity of the connection between hearts, forms have taken on the properties of essences, metaphor has found the effect of reality, words have acquired the power of meanings, and expressions have become the truth of allusions and glad tidings of abstract meanings.  AB06814

Thou art in India and we are in Syria, and though hundreds, nay thousands, of leagues separate us, yet thou art present in our gathering, thou art a bird of this meadow, a nightingale of this rose garden. We are gladdened by thy remembrance and freed from sorrow by thy mention.  AB07979

This love is eternal between you and me. Time and place cannot prevent it. Though I may be in the East, my spirit and heart are with you. I sense your conscientious feelings. Whenever news reaches me from you I become very happy. Know with certainty that I will not forget you.   ABU0754

Although thou art absent and out of sight yet in reality thou art here with us. Materially thou art far but spiritually thou art very close. Thou art deprived of the physical presence of this company but in reality thou art a confidant of the well-guarded mystery of the spirit.  AB04058

In truth you are present in heart and soul. Distance in this world has no effect, and praise be to God, nearness in the spiritual realm exists and is real. Therefore, do not imagine that you are distant and separated. Rather, you are in the gathering and present in the presence.  AB08936

Although in body we are far from one another, yet--praise be to God!--with life and heart we are present in one assembly; we enjoy the spiritual meeting, abide under the shadow of one Blessed Tree, are attracted to the beauty of one Beloved and gaze in the direction of one Object.  AB04004

"How can oblivion find way here? To cease to think of thee is impossible - at every moment I behold thee and call thee to mind. How then can I forget thee? So enthralled and enlivened is that loving friend with the remembrance of the All-Merciful that he can never fade from memory."  AB03744

"In this interminable journey, whenever the thought of the friends passed through my mind, I found myself transported from my travels to the familiar environment of home; an extraordinary feeling of happiness overcame me; and my pain and weariness were converted into ease and rest."  AB02437

Outwardly there has been no news and no message, no letter and no greeting; but the ideal relations have been strong and unshakable. From the rose-garden of the hearts of the friends we smelt sweet and perfuming fragrances. This was indeed conducive to the consolation of the souls.   AB03155

During these days when they were the companion of these servants, during the time of visiting the circumambulation point of the Supreme Concourse, they would visit on behalf of you and all relations, and likewise would feast by proxy in the name of those leaves, and all was accepted.  AB05393

Observe how the bounties of Baha'u'llah have connected hearts such that while you are in that most distant region and 'Abdu'l-Baha is in this blessed spot, He is stirred in remembrance of you and is your intimate companion in heart and soul - we are in one gathering and one dwelling.  AB02959

Verily 'Abdu'l-Baha has spiritual speeches, heavenly conversations and revelations of the heart. Verily I address, through the Bounty of El-Baha, in spirit and in vision, who addresses me, and this is known unto whom God has disclosed (uncovered) the gloomy cover from before his eyes.   AB02445

O you who have purified your face for God, and have awakened and awakened every sleeper, and have become aware and made every heedless one aware, and have heard and made every possessor of ears hear and understand, and have seen and removed the veil from every possessor of lofty vision.   AB05953

Your letter was received and, despite lack of time, due to the intensity of love an immediate reply is being written, so that you may praise the favors of the Blessed Beauty Who has made 'Abdu'l-Baha so enamored with you that upon receiving your letter He proceeded at once to write a reply.  AB07954

Our hearts like unto pure mirrors receive the impressions and these spiritual images are reflected from one mirror upon another without the medium of language. As spiritual susceptibilities have encircled us tonight and as the mirrors of the hearts are pure, therefore we can understand each other.  ABU2778

In the meeting the words of the Believers must be about God and the Wisdom of God, or to illustrate the proofs and signs of God. What we mean by this is that the words must be words for the enlightenment and enkindlement of others, just as we speak with love and kindness to the people of the world.  ABU1767

Observe the bounty of God, that 'Abdu'l-Baha, in the Most Great Prison, facing the temple of the people of Christ, is occupied with thy remembrance... But I, O Khudabakhsh, speak with heart and soul, and by God I have love for thee and am occupied with thy remembrance. This is what produces an effect.  AB09336

In prayer there is a mingling of station, a mingling of condition. Pray for them as they pray for you! When you do not know it, and are in a receptive attitude, they are able to make suggestions to you, if you are in difficulty. This sometimes happens in sleep. But there is no phenomenal intercourse!   ABU0975

Though to outward seeming ye are far from here but in reality ye are present before me. In truth ye are my companions and my confidants because the power of the word of God hath so united these scattered souls and hath so linked their hearts together that they have become but one spirit, one soul one body.  AB01848

Correspondence is of two kinds, one type is through letters, the other is the communion from heart to eager heart. That correspondence which is conducted through letters is shared by all but the one which is the result of spiritual affinity, belongs exclusively to those eager hearts of the people of light.  AB00951

Though some time has passed since I wrote you letters with pen and ink, yet in the world of spirit and in my heart I am, at all times, in communion with the friends of the Abha Beauty. I have not forgotten them for a moment; I have not ceased from corresponding with them for the duration of a single breath   AB00961

For some time no news has been received from the Afnan, upon him be the peace of God and His mercy and His grace. You should certainly inquire in each instance about his circumstances. Although through divine bounty and infinite mercy he is safe and protected, yet to inquire and seek information is beloved.   BH09607

No means is greater than correspondence and communication - correspondence is half of meeting. Send copies of this letter to all regions so that the divine friends in every land may collectively write and send letters to other lands, especially to America. This will cause enkindlement and lead to attraction.  AB10512

Always one end of the wire is fixed in the hearts of the East and the other end fixed in the hearts of the West. Therefore East and West are intimate confidants, singing the same melody in harmony. This electric wire represents the bonds between hearts, and this communication represents the feelings of souls.  AB04122

Though outwardly thou art far from sight and view and removed from this gathering, yet I swear by the light shining from the Supreme Horizon that in truth all the branches of the Blessed Tree are at all times present in this gathering of the All-Merciful and are manifest and visible in this spiritual assembly.   AB06265

You had written that although physical correspondence was cut off, nevertheless spiritual connections and communications continued uninterrupted. This is certain, there is no doubt in it, for praise be to God there is complete connection between hearts and perfect attraction - every heart is a mirror of hearts.  AB12133

From its inner meanings, the true servants of God will be so inebriated by the sealed Wine. It announceth, declareth and proclaimeth the Resplendent Truth, it is indeed the effulgent sun shedding forth the light of truth on every remote land, uncovering the thick darkness enveloping the mysteries of the Outspread Roll.   AB03834

During this period, although I was in the West, my face was always turned towards the friends in the East, and I would beseech confirmation for them from the Abha Kingdom. However, due to the onslaught of thoughts and the multitude of occupations and work, there was no opportunity for correspondence and communication with them.  ABU2736

Though we are in the Holy Land and you are in the continent of America, yet the heart connections are firm and strong, for divine oneness has connected us, and in this physical world we are linked with one another, and God willing in the divine world, the realm of the Kingdom, we shall become intimate companions and confidants.   AB07400

By God, the True One, verily pure hearts are as clear and brilliant mirrors which imprint the one on the other, and hearts discover the secrets of hearts. Therefore, they chant the verses of longing and recite the odes of glorification and praise. Consequently, the recourse is to pages of hearts, not pages filled with written lines.  AB09697

Miss Fraser and Miss Hodgson with bouquets of flowers entered the room. He was writing a holy Tablet for America with his own hand and as he raised his noble head and saw them coming in with smiles on their faces he exclaimed happily:- "You are two good sisters. Baha'i sisterhood is very precious. It is not like material sisterhood."   ABU2488

A conversation can be held, but not as our conversation. There is no doubt that the forces of the higher worlds interplay with the forces of this plane. The heart of man is open to inspiration; this is spiritual communication. As in a dream one talks with a friend while the mouth is silent, so is it in the conversation of the spirit.   ABU1482

I swear by that Peerless Beauty, Who is in the Unseen Kingdom, that when the leaves loose their tongues in praise and glorification of the All-Loving Lord, and in teaching the Cause of the Kind Lord, the concourse of the Kingdom and the inmates of the Unseen Realms will give ear, and cry out with exclamations of extreme joy and jubilation.  AB06971

God, exalted be His glory, hath made the pen a translator in such wise that it may express and convey the love that dwelleth in the hearts and souls of the friends. In truth it is a great sign, if properly considered. The connection of the world dependeth upon it. It is the harbinger, the herald, the interpreter, and the one who maketh known.  BH01748

I hope that the friends of God will not need outward correspondence, but rather will inhale spiritual breezes from the direction of grace and acquire and receive unlimited bounties from the invisible Kingdom. May the messenger of grace arrive repeatedly from the hidden world and spiritual letters come successively from the Supreme Concourse.   AB03485

Whatever I write, the protected secret of the heart is not revealed and the truth of the meanings does not become known, for both pen and ink are strangers. How can I reveal the intimate mystery and express the words of the righteous except by making an allusion from the world of love and offering a metaphor about the connections between hearts?  AB07393

A hundred thanks that the firm handle of heartfelt affection is strong, and the eye of the spirit gazes and is turned day and night. The mention of those true friends is the candle of the gathering of friends. Not a moment passes but you are remembered in heart and soul, and not an instant goes by but you are renowned in the court of the Beloved.  AB11856

And then, O beloved of my heart, thy noble letters arrived like a true friend. In truth, the letters of the friends are friendship itself, which no worldly events can alter, and they are likewise mirrors reflecting love and affection in such wise that neither the veils of the prejudiced nor the clouds of the misguided can obscure or prevent them.   BH00850

"When lovers meet it may be that they cannot exchange a single word, yet with their hearts they speak to one another. Thus do the clouds speak to the earth and the rain comes down; the breeze whispers to the trees; the sun speaks to the eyes of men. Although this is not actual speech yet this is the way in which the hearts of the friends talk together."  ABU0413

"There are two ways of taking pictures. These things about here that you have pictured will all pass away, but the true picture is the one you take on the mirror of the heart. Such pictures bring about great and eternal results. Be sure that you print such pictures on the heart and take them back to the loved ones in America. They will never fade away."   ABU3065

Yet the love of God with which we have been blessed cannot be indicated by the signs of the world. It speaks of true spiritual oneness - whoso attains unto this has attained unto the mysteries of the Books and the signs of the Scriptures. Blessed is the seeker who has found his Goal, and the searcher who has been honored with the presence of his Beloved.   BH01028

Behold what bounty this is, what favor, what grace and gift, that while we are physically scattered and dispersed throughout the world as a fragmented group, spiritually we are gathered in the assembly of fellowship, immersed in conscious feelings, made manifest to the splendor of truth, and enabled to achieve spiritual intimacy and heartfelt association.  AB12247

Although outwardly the distances between places and stations may be a hundred stages, nay thousands of leagues and parasangs, and many plains, deserts, wastelands, wilderness, mountains and valleys may stand as barriers and obstacles between us, yet...spirit and soul are stirred and moved by the fragrances of the mention of the loved ones of the All-Merciful   AB04096

O thou whose face is illumined with the Light of the Love of God! The answer already hath been delayed, but there is no harm in that. For, verily, my heart is gazing unto thee, my love is constant and permanent for thee and the fragrances of holiness are wafting (over thee) and my spirit is pouring upon thee, and the spiritual communication is extended between us.  AB10299

In this luminous spot he mentioned you and requested that this letter be written. You must be completely satisfied with him, for in such a holy place and sacred moment he remembered and mentioned you, and in the blessed sanctuary he beseeched favors from Him Who is wondrous in attributes. In the world of existence no love and consideration can be greater than this.  AB07888

This too is my utmost desire, that night and day I might spend my time commemorating the friends with pen and tongue, never resting, and ever adorning the gathering with remembrance of the friends.  AB04267

This weak servant, through the power of the Spirit of confirmation, is occupied day and night with writing and expressing, and is intimately associated with thoughts of the friends. The longing for the face and presence of the friends and sensing their loving nature has so moved this displaced one that he has become harmonious and in tune with the birds of the meadow.   AB07240

This is the encounter of illumined hearts. This meeting is solely through divine power and heavenly glad-tidings. This is a meeting of the people of the Kingdom. This meeting is like the meeting of magnet and iron, like the spring rain and pure, pristine soil, like the meeting of light and mirror, like the meeting of the breeze and trees. Therefore it has mighty results.  ABU2317

We are all beneath one tent and praise be to God, in the Most Glorious Paradise with the utmost joy and delight, all are intimate companions. Despite this, how can pen and paper become privy to secrets? What you write cannot be expressed. The point is that spiritual bonds are so strong that being free from love of the friends for even a moment is impossible and unattainable.   AB04106

Nevertheless, each one of your loved ones wishes that I correspond with them continuously and directly...yet due to the multitude of occupations and troubles...there is absolutely no opportunity to write letters. Despite this, correspondence with East and West continues constantly, but it is not possible to maintain continuous correspondence with each of the friends in every location.  AB01869

For some time now, the fragrance of fidelity has not wafted from this bird of unfaithfulness to that land and realm, and no message of love has reached those mines of affection... It is as if this distance of a hundred thousand leagues has taken on the ruling of a single step, and these countless waypoints have become as a mere span, for this vast distance can in no way prevent or block  BH04190

Although outwardly we are in this region and you are in India, yet praise be to God, our hearts in the station of revelation and vision are companions of each other, and at every moment we are in the gathering of fellowship. The heart travels east and west in an instant, and the soul hastens to all corners of the world in a single breath, beholding friends and conversing with loved ones.  AB04663

Although communication and correspondence has not been continuous, yet be assured that I have not, for a moment, forgotten thee. Thou art always in my memory, because the bonds of the Kingdom of Sanctity are between (us). This bond is like unto two mirrors which are facing each other. It is not possible that a picture be reflected in this one mirror unless it appears in the other (mirror).  AB02554

though outwardly we are distant and separated, and in burning anguish from the fire of separation, yet as we are intoxicated from the same wine and delighted and joyous from the favors of the Forgiving Lord, we are immersed in one sea and wandering in one desert, birds of one rose garden and fish of one ocean. Therefore we are intimate companions and confidants, of one breath and one voice.  AB01510

O thou who art enkindled with the fire of the love of God! For some time now thy brother, the honored Aqa Mirza Mahmud, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, hath been present in the Holy Threshold, remembering thee and, on thy behalf, visiting the Holy Places. He hath fulfilled the requirements of love, brotherhood and rightful claims, and carried out the dictates of faithfulness.  AB09496

But I am not saying farewell to you. For there is perfect unity between the hearts and complete agreement and affinity between the spirits. We are united together throughout eternity and separation is inconceivable. The nearness and remoteness belong to the world of bodies, but in the world of spirit, in the world of heart and consciousness, there is an unbroken union, an interminable union.   ABU1024

When a person in a bazaar reaches the attar, he inhales fragrant scents. Similarly, there are people who are the essence of spirit and cause the enlightenment of the heart, manifesting most excellent heavenly tidings. That is why it is revealed, "Their visage radiates the resplendence of paradise, their countenance manifests signs of prostration and their gaze is fixed upon their all-seeing God."   ABU0879

The distance separating us is tremendous but notwithstanding this, in view of ideal nearness, hearts are in a state of ecstasy. This is because the Word of God has so linked the hearts that distance, no matter how great it may be, is utterly annihilated. We are ever gathered in the ideal and divine assemblage and are looking at one another's faces while the blessings of His Highness the Merciful One surround us.   AB03250

Verily, my heart is united with thee even though my body is in a distant land, for verily neither long distance nor immense remoteness can prevent the union between hearts, because the clear hearts are in reality assembled in union in the Kingdom of God, while bodies are dispersed in the east and west of the earth. This dispersion cannot stop the affinity and cannot veil the eye of soul from seeing in all directions.  AB09694

The letter which you had written to Jinab-i-Manshadi was noted. You had cried out and lamented about being without news. You are right, but since that true friend is situated in a corner and coming and going from those parts is entirely cut off, therefore it has happened that no news reaches that honored one, and this has become a cause of sorrow. This servant is occupied and familiar with remembering you at all times   AB03355

This connection and attachment is from the outpourings of the Sovereign of existence and the King of the seen and unseen, Who in this Most Great Cycle has connected the pure realities to the appointed Center in such wise that the conscious emanations of those essences of unity flow from the periphery toward the center, and spiritual breezes from the center toward the periphery, successive, continuous and uninterrupted.  AB00804

Indeed it is as you had written - the connection and relationship between the sons and daughters of the Kingdom is not dependent on physical means. The spiritual means are constant and continuous, such that in these years of upheaval when roads are cut off and channels of communication blocked, despite this the hearts are attracted and gladdened by spiritual fragrances, for the ultimate connection and relationship exists.  AB02399

The divine friends here must always supplicate and become detached, seeking confirmation and success for the friends in all regions. They must assist the friends in all regions through divine fragrances. For assistance is of two kinds: one through outward means, such as sending letters and offering encouragement and exhortation; the other kind is through divine fragrances. The friends here must assist through divine fragrances.  ABU0832

However, the connection of heart and soul remains like a firm foundation and solid basis, constant and established. There is absolutely no cooling in the heart's attachment. Rather, night and day I turn to the highest horizon and beseech utmost joy for the spiritual friends. You who are wandering in the desert of the love of God must keep that heart connection in view, for it is the continuous medium and perpetual communication.  AB12037

Many letters from you have arrived, and the contents of all have brought spirit and delight. Whatever you write to Aqa Siyyid Taqi, he also brings and it is read. Although ten people would be needed to manage reading all the incoming letters, let alone writing replies, nevertheless it rarely happens that your letter to Aqa Siyyid Taqi is not read. As soon as he finds the slightest opportunity, he immediately gives it to be read.  AB11069

O my dear friend! Verily, my heart is united with thee even though my body is in a distant land, for verily neither long distance nor immense remoteness can prevent the union between hearts, because the clear hearts are in reality assembled in union in the Kingdom of God, while bodies are dispersed in the east and west of the earth. This dispersion cannot stop the affinity and cannot veil the eye of soul from seeing in all directions.  AB09694

The correspondence of the divine friends from all regions to America, and from America to all regions, is most beneficial and causes the attraction of hearts. You must surely exert your utmost effort in this matter and write to all regions. The divine friends must, like flowers in a rose garden, each transmit their sweet fragrance to the other, derive benefit from one another, and achieve cooperation and mutual support in heavenly powers.  AB10512

Though this wanderer in the wilderness of God's love has fallen behind a hundred thousand mountains, plains and deserts, nevertheless at this moment he has become, in the utmost joy and fragrance, the companion of your remembrance and has undertaken to write this letter. Glory be to God! What mystery is this, and what yearning is this, that despite the lack of outward nearness, there exists the utmost fellowship and love of heart and soul!  AB07898

yet if thou wouldst look with true insight and gaze with vision, thou wouldst see that through Our own spiritual messenger, a hundred replies were sent for every letter. For though no written page was dispatched, praise be to God, the preserved tablet of hearts exists and is evident, inscribed with the most wondrous calligraphy, words, meanings and mysteries. If this connection did not exist, whence would come this ardor, this rapture and this attraction?  AB03185

And that light was one, for it told of the Sun of Unity and indicated the Orb of Detachment, and in its station it was and ever will be one. Yet from its orientation to each direction, a name becomes manifest, a word becomes evident, and a cloud becomes visible. For example, through its orientation to the means of sight, vision becomes manifest, and through the means of hearing, the power of listening becomes evident, and likewise with each member of the body and each part of the parts.   BH00935

Whenever an illumined assembly of the friends of God is gathered, Abdu'l-Baha, although bodily absent, is yet present in spirit and in soul. I am always a traveller to America and am assuredly associating with spiritual and illumined friends. Distance is annihilated and prevents not the close and intimate association of two souls that are closely attached in heart even though they may be in two different countries. I am therefore thy close companion, attuned and in harmony with thy soul.  AB05299

The essence of everything is the remembrance of heart and soul, not the effect of pen and fingers. His Holiness the Pride of Messengers, the Mystery of Existence, outwardly neither wrote a letter to Uways-i-Qarani in Yemen nor met with him, yet despite this he said "I sense the fragrance of the Merciful from the direction of Yemen," for that Yemen was the dwelling place and homeland of His Holiness Uways-i-Qarani. Thus it became clear that spiritual communications are greater, better and sweeter.  AB01085

O spiritual friend! You do not know that letters surge like waves from all horizons of the world. Multiple individuals are needed just to read them, let alone write replies. Moreover, there are questions about various matters, and beyond that, difficulties and occupations. Therefore, this very letter itself is a reply - there is no other choice. Furthermore, if during this time a reply to a letter arrives, this should be counted among extraordinary occurrences, not considered among ordinary matters.   AB05557

Hearts are like centers of telegraph and telephone, and spiritual connections are like extended wires whose ends are fixed at the source, and in truth they communicate with all hearts. These are connections established through the power of the Most Great Name, and this is an intimacy achieved through the penetrating influence of the Word of God. Therefore, the heart of Abdu'l-Baha is connected to all hearts, and spiritual communication is constant and continuous. If hearts become unburdened, they will surely sense this communication.  AB04132

Meetings are various in kind. One meeting is like the meeting of people, an ordinary meeting, which is so easily forgotten. Howsoever kind they may be to each other they will forget it. For example, a brother meeting another brother, the father meeting his son, sisters meeting, the mother meeting a daughter, or the daughter the mother, when separation takes place in the course of time gradually that relation will be forgotten. Such a meeting is without result; eventually it sinks into forgetfulness. Another meeting is similar to the meeting of the sun with the mirror. The rays of the sun shine upon the mirror. Again, there may be a meeting like the coming together of combustible wood with fire, or the mingling of oil with fire. As soon as contact is effected, combustion takes place. Ah, such a meeting is good! Again, there is a meeting which is like unto the contact of the gentle zephyrs with the trees, which verdure; such a meeting is verily a meeting resulting in fruits and flowers.  ABU1048
