
The Call of God when raised, breathed a new life into the body of mankind, and infused a new spirit into the whole creation. It is for this reason that the world hath been moved to its depths, and the hearts and consciences of men been quickened. Erelong the evidences of this regeneration will be revealed, and the fast asleep will be awakened.  AB11291

"The generality of the wise themselves testify that these divine teachings are the spirit of this age and the light of this century. Humanity will find no rest, tranquility or proper order except through the promotion of these teachings."   AB00130

Sanctified and holy thou must occupy thy time with the diffusion of the Lights of the Kingdom, strive in the enkindlement of the hearts and the regeneration of the souls. Thou must be the servant of the Blessed Beauty and create a great reverberation in the spheres of thoughts and ideals.  ABU0963

"All the Prophets and Messengers were sent by the Lord of the worlds so that, through the endeavors of those holy souls, the suns of spiritual virtues might shine forth from the horizons of human temples."  BH05969

What is the spirit but to be given up for the progress of divine Civilization and universal Peace, and what is rest and comfort but to be thrown away for the establishment of brotherhood and the spiritualization of mankind!   ABU0765


The world of creation is advancing and the Orb of the horizons is in full splendor. Though the Sun of Truth be hidden behind the clouds of glory, yet its effulgence and rays are continuous and successive. The surface of the earth shall soon become a supreme paradise through divine bestowals, and the dusty realm shall become a mirror of the most exalted heights. The images of the Kingdom shall be reflected in the mirror of the world, and the grace of the Realm of Might shall become manifest and embodied.  AB04622

The world and its condition will change to such a degree and the Baha'i Cause will prevail to such an extent that nothing but a remnant - like these pillars - will remain of the previous order.   ABU3468

I wish this blessing to appear and become manifest in the faces and characteristics of the believers, so that they, too, may become a new people, and having found new life and been baptized with fire and spirit, may make the world a new world, to the end that the old earth may disappear and the new earth appear; old ideas depart and new thoughts come; old garments be cast aside and new garments put on; ancient politics whose foundation is war be discarded and modern politics founded on peace raise the standard of victory; the new star shine and gleam and the new sun illumine and radiate; new flowers bloom, the new spring become known; the new breeze blow; the new bounty descend; the new tree give forth new fruit; the new voice become raised and this new sound reach the ears, that the new will follow the new, and all the old furnishings and adornments be cast aside and new decorations put in their places.  AB02184

the world will be so trained that no one will harm even his own enemy  ABU3558

The world is receptive and its people are heedless. They seek after thorns and thistles - that is, vain imaginings and idle fancies - while turning away from the pearls of utterance, clinging instead to pebbles and date-stones. Today there are seekers for all things except the pearls of wisdom and utterance that have appeared from the treasury of the Most Exalted Pen. These remain without seeker or buyer. Ere long will the world change and people will eagerly seek after them with their very souls. Blessed are they that attain! BH10707

"cause the kindling of the Fire of God, blazing in the hearts and souls of the people of East and West"  AB06739

The Sun of the Face is manifest and shining from the horizon of appearance - every possessor of sight beholds it.   BH05280

It is our hope that the horizons of the Orient and the Occident may become illumined with the lights of Divine Civilization.  ABU3049

The Parliament of man will be established; humanity will be spiritualized and the Standard of Peace will be hoisted above every home.   ABU0868

A new era of divine consciousness is upon us. The world of humanity is going through a process of transformation. A new race is being developed.  ABU2682

under the protection of this Shepherd these sheep may graze in the meadow of Clemency and while they grow and develop acquire infinite joy and happiness.  AB07131

This is an age more ready, because of the great spiritual advance made in the great kingdom of knowledge, to understand and benefit by his just commands.  ABU2956


Politicians will become spiritual, and philosophers will become lamps of the Kingdom. Leaders will establish an eternal sovereignty, and all people will shine like the stars of heaven   AB02094

Today the world and the people are under the shadow of divine providence, the light of the Sun of Reality hath been shed upon the world of minds and thoughts; hence, light is seen everywhere.  AB02591

The human world must be quickened and refreshed by the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and through the power of the Word of God the banner of universal peace must be raised. Otherwise human powers are impotent.   AB02221


The time will come in the near future when humanity will become so much more sensitive than at present that the man of great wealth will not enjoy his luxury, in comparison with the deplorable poverty about him.  ABU3245


The lights of truth will shine forth, the mysteries of truth will become clear and evident, the flowers of the divine garden will bloom, and the springtime of the All-Merciful will encompass all regions and realms.   AB04249

But there is no limit to spiritual progress and its results are infinite and glorious... spiritual progress is the cause of eternal joy and the source of education and protection of the human world and everlasting happiness for humankind.  ABU2704

When you breathe forth the breath of the Holy Spirit from your hearts into the world, commerce and politics will take care of themselves in perfect harmony. All arts and sciences will become revealed and the knowledge of God will be manifested   ABU3176

That the joys of spirituality may prevail over material pleasures; that East and West may delight in one another as lovers, and North and South embrace each other in closest affection; that the visible world may be the mirror of the world of the kingdom.  ABU1932

The teachings of the Ancient Beauty constitute that Covenant, all of which must needs be realized in its own time, even though it may take successive centuries; yet ultimately it must be fulfilled and breathe a new spirit into the dead bodies of mankind.   ABU2545


Let a new spirit sweep over your temples, so that the Fire of the Love of God which is enkindled in your holy of holies may flame forth and set a spiritual conflagration to the whole of Europe. You must not rest day and night till you have breathed in this body a new spirit and ignited a light in this lamp.   ABU1673


Just as physical perfections have reached the highest degree, spiritual perfections must likewise reach the highest degree so that both the outer and inner aspects of humanity may be illumined, and both worldly happiness and heavenly happiness may be attained. Both natural virtues and divine virtues must all become manifest.  ABU0264

The full measure of your success is as yet unrevealed, its significance still unapprehended. Ere long ye will, with your own eyes, witness how brilliantly every one of you, even as a shining star, will radiate in the firmament of your country the light of Divine Guidance and will bestow upon its people the glory of an everlasting life.  AB11305

This assembly is an example of how in the future, the whole of humanity will enter beneath the tabernacle [of the Cause], rest under the shadow of a single tree, drink from the same chalice and be satisfied from the same fountainhead. The effect of such gatherings will be manifested at a future time and will attract divine confirmations.  ABU1742

Now, praise be to God, the fire of the love of God has been kindled in the censer of Iran, and its world-illumining flame has reached the western countries. Since this divine kindled fire has begun to blaze in those vast countries, it will become more aflame day by day, and by divine help and favor its fire will spread to all directions.   AB00386


It is my wish that you shall arise to live according to these teachings and exhortations; that all of us may be divinely strengthened, enter the paradise of the spiritual Kingdom, diffuse the lights of the Sun of Truth, cause the waves of this Most Great Ocean to reach all human souls so that this world of earth may be transformed into the world of heaven and this devastated ground be changed into the paradise of Abha.   ABU0596

God should be commemorated in every city; the lights of guidance should be diffused; the souls should be attracted to the beauty of God; the doors of knowledge should be opened; the teachings of God should be practiced -- and the tongues should be eloquent in the praise of God. When these virtues become apparent within a city, the heavenly manna will descend, and that city -- wherever it may be -- will become a New Jerusalem.  ABU1906

The object of such a Conference will be the glorification of the world of humanity and attainment to the image and likeness of God which is related to the realm of Morality. Then and not until then the individuals of the human race will become wholly abstracted from the defects of the material world; the virtues of the Kingdom will be revealed in them; they will receive the heavenly Bestowals, be baptized with the Holy Spirit and attain to eternal Life and everlasting Felicity.   AB03302

The bright day is coming. The nucleus of the new race is forming. The harbinger of the new ideals of international justice is appearing. The trees of hope will become verdant; the copper of scorn and derision will be transmuted into the gold of honor and praise; the arid desert of ignorance will be transformed into the luxuriant garden of knowledge, the threatening clouds shall be dispelled and the stars of faith and charity will again twinkle in the clear heaven of human consciousness.  ABU2031

so that the friends may be raised up with a character and demonstrate a conduct that will make the world a paradise of good-pleasure and the face of the earth a supreme heaven...so that the reality of divine attributes may become manifest in the realm of possibility, and the human world may become a mirror of the Most Great Beauty. Faith, certitude, mystic knowledge, truth, integrity, reconciliation, worship of truth, love, oneness, fellowship and wisdom may become realized and renowned among all peoples.  AB01108

In these days when the leader of vain imaginings hath appeared with utmost might and the hosts of idle fancies have encompassed all directions, and weakness and lassitude have permeated the pillars of being, thou must set the world ablaze through the power of the Most Great Name. Despite all that hath been mentioned, change and transformation, giving and withholding, have ever been within the grasp of God's power. Blessed is the soul that ariseth today with wisdom and guideth the world through the fire of the Divine Word.  BH00167

"in order that the slumberous world become awakened, the unconscious become mindful, the universe become another universe, the human world become the realm of the Kingdom, earthly emotions become heavenly attractions, cruelty and oppression be changed into love and faithfulness, the clattering of the sword be transformed into the sweet melody of the pen and the discordant sound of war become the wonderful song of love and intelligence; in order that all the individuals of humanity embrace each other and live among themselves in perfect love and affinity."  AB02135

In a similar manner in the Bahai Cause, there must appear extraordinary spiritual geniuses, wonders of the Kingdom of God, souls who in knowledge, sciences, sociability, tenderness, loving-kindness, universality, joyfulness, may be considered unique and peerless. Should such heavenly beings appear in the Western States, the power and the creative energy of the Kingdom of Abha will become manifest and apparent; souls who have discovered their ways to the mines of the Kingdom; souls who are the irrigators of the grounds of the hearts of humanity; souls who are the wonders of the realm of Truth.   ABU0723

