

Truth (the highest truth) is unattainable except through the favor of the Holy Spirit.  ABU3624

In the Spiritual Station you will never be without the Knowledge necessary to answer a question.   ABU3090

They should develop spiritual feelings. By these means they will become enlightened and well educated   ABU2419

That most of the beloved of God were illiterate, having never entered school, nevertheless their good morals are incomparable. Furthermore the dearest thing to man is life itself, and this they are ready to forfeit. If all the colleges of Europe shall universally make effort, they cannot graduate two such souls as you with such pure intentions.  ABU1270


Observe that even acquired knowledge without improvement and refinement of character becomes a cause of harm. Yes, if knowledge is coupled with good character, it becomes the cause of attaining great benefits.  ABU2043

Blessed is the learned one who acteth according to what is commanded in the Book and attaineth unto the ocean of knowledge - verily, he is of the essence of creation before God, the Exalted, the Great.  BH07487

This motivation will result in one's heart and spirit becoming enlightened and one's soul becoming luminous.  AB01839

Without divine civilization the mysteries of the Kingdom are not revealed and the bounties of heaven are not ascertained; supernatural wisdom and power do not manifest themselves; the intelligence of humanity does not reach maturity; the world of humanity does not become the mirror of the world above; spiritual powers fail to over-come animal influences of nature. These perfections are attained through divine civilization of which the world of man is in need.  ABU2986

The truly learned one is he whose knowledge prevents him from all that My good-pleasure and His good-pleasure abhorreth  BH11413

Until the heart is freed from the fire of vain imaginings, it shall assuredly not attain unto the light of certitude.  BH00018

Today, attainment unto the Most Great Guidance is among the supreme gifts of the All-Glorious Lord and is the most noble magnet attracting the outpourings of the realms above and the Abha Kingdom. For the divine lights are shining with intense brilliance and mighty radiance from the horizons of human consciousness. Through His grace, the drop findeth the station of the sea, and through the bounty of the Truth, the atom becometh the brilliant sun of guidance. AB10552

Develop capacity to receive the Word of God. First develop the thirst, the capacity; then you will receive the precious Water of life.   ABU3205

Moses hearkened unto the divine call in the Sinai of recognition, and it is that same call that He Who is the Desire of the world now voiceth. Strive, that this most great bounty may remain and endure. BH09796

Therefore, nothing remains except spiritual insight and divine witnessing. So cleave unto it, cleave unto it, for it is for you, it is for you!   AB00223

The dawning of the Sun of Truth from the horizon of oneness was for the illumination of the horizons of the human world, not for temporal dominion  AB10970

guard the unique pearl, which is the knowledge of God, exalted be His glory, as a treasure within the repository of the heart from thieves and traitors  BH05376

the Sun of Reality will eventually disperse it through the heat of its rays, and darkness and error will pass away and the dawn of guidance will break forth   AB05151

You must ever concentrate your thoughts on the acquisition of knowledge, so that unlimited confirmations may continually descend upon you from the Kingdom of God  AB08788

Words are like cups and meanings like wine - when the cup is in utmost delicacy and the wine in utmost sweetness, it becomes light upon light. The words of friends are like crystal decanters and their meanings are spiritual wine. When both come together in the letters of friends, spirit and fragrance result, and this becomes evidence of the reality and spirituality of conscience. AB05356

It is not a political movement, it is not an industrial movement, it is not a scientific movement, -- but it is the influence of the Word of God, it is the breath of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0369

Therefore, turn thy face toward the Ancient Beauty and seek recourse at the threshold of His oneness, that His most holy outpouring may continuously descend upon every sanctified heart  AB10100

They should occupy themselves with spiritual matters, not material ones, for when human realities become the source of divine inspirations, every purpose will be achieved and every desire fulfilled.  AB02279

The divine outpourings are never cut off - at all times the Kawthar of knowledge of the All-Merciful flows and spreads forth from the fountainhead of will, and its bestower is the hands of grace of the Lord.  BH06073

Thus it becomes clear and evident that manliness and wisdom belong to the heart, not to water and clay. This being so, strive to become a man of the arena of divine knowledge and a luminous star in the heaven.   AB06730

Beyond this, spiritual powers will assist and support each other, the breaths of the Holy Spirit will spread, the breezes of the Abha Paradise will waft, and the rays of the Sun of Truth will have intense effect.   AB00968

They say that the divine Plato was of the people of illumination and the chief of the people of harmony. If this be so, his mention is as honey and sweetness, for the essence of illumination is the jewel of harmony  AB08809

Regarding the two wings of the soul, these mean wings of ascent. One is the wing of knowledge, the other of faith, as these are the means of the ascent of the human soul to the lofty station of divine perfections.   AB00569

the heart has become weak from the absence of spiritual power, it can no longer observe divine mysteries and its future affairs...if you want to have lofty aspirations, you must set the heart in motion to unite with knowledge  ABU1127

The Tree of Wisdom, its root, branch and twig is the knowledge of God - exalted be His glory, magnificent His station, and great His grandeur. He cannot be known except through Himself, nor can He be described by what the people possess.  BH00219

Whereas the development of good character and refinement of morals is more important than the acquisition of sciences...on condition that the pursuit of knowledge be coupled with refinement of character and inspiration from the light of divine effulgence  AB03999

Just as the amelioration and perfection of the world of humanity is dependent upon the progress of sciences and art, so also the refinement of the spirit and the cultivation of the highest ideals of morality is made possible through celestial sciences and art.  ABU0779

No fruits whatsoever will be manifested from those who are educated in the worldly things and remain unaware of spiritual matters. However, those among the believers who live in accordance with the divine teachings, ordinances and exhortations, shall be confirmed.   ABU0797

Thus is it incumbent upon the friends of God to exert such an effort and strive with such eagerness to promote divine knowledge, culture and the sciences, that erelong those who are schoolchildren today will become the most erudite of all the fraternity of the wise.  AB03799

Having, in the school of true learning, achieved the power of understanding and come to know the inner realities of the universe, will go on to uncover the signs and mysteries of God, and will find themselves illumined by the lights of the knowledge of the Lord, and by His love.   AB05463

The highest form of wealth is your faith in God - whoso hath not attained unto this is indeed the poorest of the poor in the sight of the Lord of all cycles. Blessed is he who hath attained unto the knowledge of his Lord - We testify that he is among the wealthiest of all creation.   BH09752

As much as you can, acquire the essence of divine meanings and uncover spiritual truths and mysteries. For the spirit of life in the world is the meanings present in the human heart, and the moving force in the body of contingent being is the truths present in the Self of the All-Merciful.  AB06816

The heavenly food is good. This food gives trouble (indigestion). That heavenly food gives strength and salvation. The effect of this food is only for a day; but the strength of that is everlasting. It is strange that the people are so ignorant about it and are unaware of the heavenly food.  ABU2021

"When the guidance of God is vouchsafed us we are enabled to throw away false ideas and erroneous thoughts. The angels of providence must come to our assistance, the Confirmations of God must encircle us;- so that we may become mindful, aware, intelligent, and conscious of our own mistakes and shortcomings"   ABU0291

Earthly wisdom is as the water of pools, gathered from this side and from that, while Heavenly Wisdom is as rain. Earthly wisdom is as the light of a lamp, while Heavenly Wisdom is as the ever-shining radiance of the stars. If the Heavenly Wisdom should pass away from this world, all human beings would perish.   ABU1221

Now you must lay foundations whose roots are in this world but whose ends are in the zenith of eternal glory, and you must raise a melody in the assemblage of this life that its intoxicating effects will be in the kingdom of the divine. Therein lies the fruit of one's existence, therein lies the manifest mystery.  AB03517

Without heavenly virtues and upright character, the mere acquisition of learning and arts will not suffice and will not prevent moral corruption and the harms of self and passion, but rather will become the cause of promoting false thoughts and a means of strengthening personal interests, unless accompanied by divine education.  ABU2705

"The tables mentioned in the Bible are spiritual tables. The effect of the material table lasts for twelve hours but that which is divine is everlasting and eternal. For example,--'Revelation' is one of the heavenly tables. As an illustration, think of the knowledge revealed two thousand years ago; we feel the effect of it now and that effect will remain forever."  ABU2192

But, praised be the Lord, thou art engaged in that which secureth for thee a gain that shall eternally endure; and that is naught but thine attraction to the Kingdom of God, thy faith, and thy knowledge, the enlightenment of thine heart, and thine earnest endeavour to promote the Divine Teachings. Verily this gift is imperishable and this wealth is a treasure from on high!  AB05801

"This is also one of the most distinctive signs of the Baha'i cycle that a person who has never entered the doors of a school, who has not studied grammar and syntax sits down and writes such scholarly works... This is purely through the gift of the Lord! Because their hearts are so attached to the Cause, that that very attachment becomes an unerring teacher. Their words have life..."  ABU1422

The foundation of civilization is the amelioration of the conditions of morality; the basis of spirituality is the purity of morality. The Everlasting Glory of the world of humanity is in the readjustment of morality. The power and the potency of man is through the refinement of morality. And the beautification and refinement of morality is impossible except through the Breathes of the Holy-Spirit.  ABU2383

A blind man, though he sit near the light, cannot see it; but a clear-sighted man can see from afar. A man afflicted with a cold, if he be in a rose garden, cannot inhale the fragrances, but one whose nostrils are pure can inhale from a long distance. The people who are in these cities are deaf and blind, but you, having an open eye and a pure nostril, can see the Light from afar and inhale the fragrances of this Rose Garden.  ABU1510

Therefore let not any considerations of physical relationship hinder you from recognizing the truth. In this Dispensation none of these matters have the weight of a mustard seed. Every person, no matter who he is - must be judged according to the standard of spirituality, sanctity, severance, attraction, fidelity to and service in the Cause - which he manifests in his daily thoughts, speeches and deeds. This is the unerring criterion and the searching test.  ABU1761

There is the food of faith and assurance; the sustenance of divine virtues; the bread of the love of God; the meat of the glad-tidings of the kingdom of Abha; the victuals of severance and detachment; the viands of enkindlement and attraction; the nutriment of sanctity and holiness; the dish of attraction with the fragrances of God; the sustenance of the breaths of the Holy Spirit; the food of eternal life; the nourishment of teaching the cause of God and promulgating the religion of God   ABU2527

