Every assembly held for the purpose of bringing about unity and concord will be conducive to turning strangers into friends and aliens into companions.  AB04289

O Divine providence, shed a ray from the Sun of Truth upon this gathering that it may become illumined.   ABU3567


We are all in one gathering and one presence in the assembly of light, in the shade of the pavilion of glory and in the gardens of the paradise of Eden   AB04016


Hold weekly meetings and give feasts.  ABU2848

it behooves you to arrange spiritual gatherings  AB03407

Meetings are good for engendering spiritual force.  ABU1410

Meetings are multiplying, attendees are increasing   AB02116

Yesterday at the gathering, faces were very radiant.   ABU2209

gathered the friends together in an intimate gathering  AB12411

We love meetings of fidelity and not picturesque scenes  ABU3012

Winter has come - your gatherings should become very warm   AB02515

In truth it was full of charm and caused joy to the friends   AB04318

the effects thereof shall spread to every corner of the world  ABU3707

Kindle the flame of the love of God in the spiritual gathering  AB04001

Your meetings are very spiritual. They will progress in the future.  ABU1939

The spiritual meeting must be in the utmost state of ecstasy and tumult.  AB11267

The Nineteen Day Feast should be carried out with the utmost effort among all  AB11350

In those dwellings the Name of God is ever mentioned and always commemorated.  AB00963

Adorn the feast of the Covenant and establish the festival of the love of God   AB05857

adorn the gatherings of existence with the grace of firmness and steadfastness  AB08975

May the gatherings and meetings be illumined by the light of the Sun of Reality   AB04633

O My loved ones! When you gather in any spot, remember what befell Me in My days   BH03439

gather the steadfast friends together every week to engage in divine remembrance   AB03692

arrange spiritual meetings, demonstrate the reality of awakening and supplication  AB03500

Sing and play in the meetings of the friends and the maidservants of the Merciful  AB09485

"make thy intention to circumambulate the gathering place of the Supreme Concourse"   AB02168

Serving coffee, tea and sweets on Friday evenings in your home is very appropriate.   AB01188

spiritual assemblies have been established and formed to strive in spiritual matters  AB11384

arrange gatherings and, with soul-stirring melodies, engage in the remembrance of God  AB12544

Praise be to God, you have a divine gathering and have arranged a spiritual assembly   AB03242

Gather ye together in spirit and fragrance, then recite the verses of the All-Merciful  BH03556

Arrange gatherings and be occupied day and night with diffusing the divine fragrances.  AB04734

This was the springtime; we had good meetings at your home; I shall never forget them.  ABU2460

that ye may enter, intoxicated, into the gathering of love and the assembly of affection  BH10821

the loved ones of God should arrange a gathering and devise a plan regarding their matter  AB05193

attended the spiritual gathering, and were in a state of complete love, sincerity and joy  ABU0852

teaching gatherings and teaching study classes. Both are supremely confirmed and successful  AB02664

the chanting of verses and recitation of prayers in gatherings of sanctification and teaching  AB01922

like birds in this rose-garden are harmonizing with wondrous melodies in sweet tones and songs  AB04843

Communication with the friends of God in other countries is a source of fragrant spirituality.  AB05650

gatherings for meeting and assemblies for the diffusion of divine breaths have been established  AB10202

The gatherings that are arranged are in truth reflections that reach from the Supreme Concourse.   AB07312

In all gatherings and all lands, guide souls to worship and engagement in the remembrance of God   AB02893

When they arrange a gathering they sing sweet melodies and offer praise to the Lord of creation.   AB03248

Thanks be to God, this is a good meeting. It is very enlightened; it is spiritual; it is heavenly.  ABU1118

We hope that through God's grace you will illuminate a countenance in the gathering of the mystics   AB11561

Ever chant the verses and intone the prayers, that you may bring the spiritual gathering into motion  AB10069

Sing in all gatherings of the love and harmony of the beloved and the maidservants of the Merciful.   AB11516

Meetings and gatherings have been formed and they are occupied with diffusing the divine fragrances.   AB04500

...making light of it we chanted Tablets, sang Baha'i songs and did not mind the natural discomforts.  ABU1337

that all may engage in remembrance of the Divine Unity with complete joy, delight, attraction and gladness  AB04485

It is better if in meetings one of those present reads from the Tablets of Baha'u'llah and others listen.   AB03667

We became intimate companions with each other and spoke of the confidences and supplications of the friends  AB12305

Your gathering is bright and illumined, and your meeting is perfumed with the fragrances of the love of God  AB05333

Thank God that you have made your home a gathering place for the friends and an assembly for the loved ones.  AB00409

Always write about the meetings and gatherings in London and be present at all the assemblies of the friends  AB09986

Adorn your meetings with the cause of teaching. Establish holy gatherings and spread the divine fragrances.   AB07237

That gathering had a radiance from the Supreme Concourse and that assembly bore a sign from the realm above.  AB03409

There, people of different nationalities gather in one meeting and chant the divine tablets with one accord.   ABU1808

May he gather the friends in assemblies of devotion and remembrance and meetings of supplication and entreaty  AB08328

I expect to receive good news from you, that your meetings are glowing with the light of Faith and assurance.   ABU2753

in the gatherings of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, open your tongue in praise of the All-Merciful Lord   AB04881

adorn the meetings with the commemoration of God and train the individuals with the breath of the merciful One  AB00725

Gather ye in your meeting places and remember God, your Creator. Through His remembrance are hearts illumined.   BH03453

"But if they chant supplications together (and in company), in a good and effective voice, that is very good."   AB03276

The gathering which thou hast arranged will produce mighty results and will cause the diffusion of illumination  AB12584

Whenever you chant prayers in the gathering of the friends, the dwellers of the Kingdom are stirred into motion  AB12670

The meetings she arranges in her home are very beneficial, and the five-person meeting is also very beneficial.  AB01683

We are going to have a very quiet Rizwan holiday but the unseen congregation of the friends are all around us.   ABU1573

Likewise, the Friday night gathering is most befitting. I implore divine confirmation from the favors of Truth.  AB01713

It is a blessed meeting; you are blessed. Blessed souls are gathered here. In reality, this house is illumined.   ABU2074

One must take in hand the cup of love and intoxicate the companions of the gathering with the wine of fellowship  AB10389

"One of the greatest of these means is the spirit of true fellowship and loving communion amongst the friends."   AB06644

Therefore strive night and day to chant the verse of unity in the gatherings of the handmaidens of the Merciful   AB01211

God willing, mayest thou abide beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree and remember Him in the nights and days.  BH06089

Repeatedly and successively thy remembrances and supplications attained the hearing of the Beloved of the world.   BH02330

it is obligatory and required for all friends that at the beginning of gatherings they mention and recite prayers  AB00667

If the Committee of Consultation or the general assembly becomes the cause of unhappiness, it must be abandoned.   ABU1822

Now through the efforts of those holy souls this spiritual gathering and this divine temple has been established.  AB11899

Soon that great Temple will be completed and the voice of prayer and praise shall ascend to the Sublime Kingdom.   AB06537

at the feast and celebration in Hasan-Abad on the blessed Day of the Declaration of His Holiness the Exalted One   AB07392

Along this sea was always where Christ would walk, therefore there is the utmost spirituality and fragrance here   AB04829

Thou hast written regarding the formation of three gatherings for spreading the Tablets; this is very acceptable.  AB05002

Souls must become familiar with chanting the verses of glory and be delighted by beholding the Kingdom of Beauty.  AB05098

Do not look to the small size of the gathering you have arranged - through sincerity of intention it will expand.  AB05670

This your social gathering on the Great Feast is like unto a Mother who will in future beget many Heavenly Feasts   AB03648

and were present in the spiritual gathering, and attained fellowship with the longing ones and the imprisoned ones  AB04388

At the break of every morn, set thy face consciously toward the Kingdom of God, and humbly offer this supplication  AB09214

Concerning the feast they said to seek what - verily God is with the patient ones. God willing it will be arranged.  BH06139

so that the agreeing friends in the gathering of the righteous might become intoxicated with the wine of mysteries   AB05091

The spiritual gathering of fellowship that has been established in Bushruyih will surely promote the teaching work.  AB11404

Thy feast was held within. On the day of the feast I sought the assistance and bounty of the Most Holy One for thee  AB08652

Such Feasts are very beloved, for they are the causes of the gathering of the believers and the happiness of souls.  AB03460

"We must remember these nights and these gatherings and must show the same spirit of love that is manifested here."  ABU2192

This is a day among the days of Ridvan wherein...a gathering hath been held in Thy name and adorned by Thy presence   BH08842

He hath made thee taste the honey of certitude and caused thee to speak His praise in the gatherings of remembrance.  AB09653

And send that ode to this direction so that it may be chanted and intoned at the center of the spiritual gathering.   AB07193

besides these two churches yesterday there was the private gathering of the friends and private meetings with a group  AB03544

when mention of the friends is made in the gathering of the companions, the soul is filled with spirit and fragrance   AB00736

"If your intention is to arrange a general gathering in Chicago... where people from all directions will be present"   AB07015

contrasts different types of gatherings and their songs, emphasizing the spiritual nature of the addressees' gathering   AB04369

Therefore, Spiritual Assemblies must be established in all the cities and their aims must be the guidance of the souls.  AB01773

Mayest thou be as a lighted candle in the meeting of the spiritual ones and the splendor of the meeting of the friends.  AB12570

When thou enterest the gathering of the newly-arrived ones of God, raise a cry with the melody of the Supreme Concourse  AB10548

that they may be chanted with wondrous melody in great gatherings, causing hearts to rejoice and souls to be gladdened.  AB09159

This letter appears to be written following a devotional gathering where prayers were offered for a group of believers.  AB05382

That honored lady must engage, throughout the days and nights, in bringing together the hearts of the handmaidens of God  BH11539

gather Thy loved ones in assemblies of remembrance and praise, and admit Thy servants into gatherings of light and glory  AB04233

in this divine gathering he is occupied and familiar with remembering and mentioning the loved ones of the All-Merciful   AB04300

the verses of guidance to be chanted in your gatherings, and the lamp of the Supreme Concourse to illumine your meetings  AB03031

let his cry 'Ya-Baha-el-Abha!' reach to the apex of heaven in their meetings, gatherings, churches, colleges and schools  ABU0817

Their meetings must be held in great love, just like the gathering together of doves which are so loving to each other.   ABU2655

The Sunday School is very important...it is very good and they must attend it with joy and fragrance and with enthusiasm.  ABU2803

to find happiness and delight in the gatherings, to become familiar with the remembrance and thought of the Lord of Hosts  AB12345

You had written that the loved ones of God hold meetings and gatherings every day. This good news brought the utmost joy.  AB12678

You wrote about the luminous gathering in Paris, that praise be to God, that assembly is radiant. This brought great joy.  AB08811

Then once again it shall be the same feast, the same pure wine and chalice, the same rose garden with its roses and tulips  AB08644

It is hoped that that gathering will become a reflection of the realm above and receive a ray from the Supreme Concourse.   AB03656

occupy yourself day and night in the gatherings of the handmaidens of God with the mention and praise of the Supreme Lord   AB03218

Assemble ye the friends of Paris together and gather them in one place and raise loud the sacred melodies in this meeting.  AB00928

Therefore should spiritual assemblies be constituted in every land whose principal concern should be the guidance of souls.  AB01081

Every gathering that becometh a teaching assembly is a sign of the Supreme Concourse and is, in truth, the highest paradise  AB07994

thy house and dwelling is a meeting-place of the spiritual ones and thy nest and abode is a shelter for the birds of heaven  AB08183

In the world there will be a spiritual feast. From the beginning of the world to the present day there will be none similar  ABU2090

it is hoped that that gathering will, with the utmost wisdom, become the cause of enlightening hearts and dispelling sorrows  AB02210

The emphasis on the importance and effects of spiritual gatherings, both the disciples' gathering and the current gathering   ABU0482

You have written that you have been gathered together in one place, and with perfect love, you were engaged in praising God.  AB12535

Praise be to God, the assemblies have become organized and the effort of the handmaidens of the Merciful has also joined in   AB01346

Praise be to God that in Kerman...the Spiritual Assembly has been established and Jinab-i-Ishraq became the cause of unity.   AB01056

Since we had come on foot, He commanded us to go to the Garden of Paradise and there to have tea, read prayers, and return.   ABU2990

May your gathering become like a rose garden and meadow, and may the fragrant flowers therein diffuse the divine fragrances.   AB12042

O assemblage of the Spirit! The assemblage ye formed was like a mirror facing the assemblage of God in the heavenly Kingdom.   AB06603

thou has written about the meetings held in Buffalo, about the manner in which thou art engaged in teaching at those meetings  AB00652

From the renewal of the discussion meetings and the arrangement of the new assembly, the utmost joy and delight was obtained.   AB01453

We beseech God that He may gather all through pure grace beneath the canopy of His gift, and unite all at the spring of Tasnim  AB02284

It is morning and the divine friends are present in this gathering, their faces blooming and radiant like roses in the garden.  AB01203

Thou hast written that in these days the establishment of the meeting has become impossible in that city; be thou not unhappy.  AB08187

Arrange meetings and strive night and day to become the cause of diffusing the divine fragrances and exalting the Word of God.   AB02576

In the gathering of spiritual ones thou hast kindled thy countenance, and in holy assemblages thou hast burned away the veils.   AB05347

The gathering that you formed in the home of the maidservant of God Dr. Pauline was a luminous assembly and a divine gathering.  AB04261

When ye assemble in the meeting of teaching (the truth), it is incumbent on you to chant the following supplication and commune  AB01650

I hope that Assembly will ever be illumined and that the sweet fragrances of the Most Great Guidance will perfume its atmosphere  AB06487

The song of the divine nightingales has transformed the rose garden and meadow into a feast of joy and an assembly of refinement  AB10847

The spiritual assembly was arranged. Abdul-Baha, in His heart, was present in your gathering and His spirit was gazing upon you.  AB06944

Every soul passing through those regions opens their tongue in praise and offers thanks and glorification with utmost gratitude   AB05360

Certainly conduct these meetings with utmost order so that in a short time teachers and promoters may emerge from this gathering.  AB04972

Complete the spiritual gatherings in New York and persist in them, so that blessed results may be achieved through steadfastness.  AB08645

Great joy was attained from the spirit and fragrance of the friends of that region and the formation of gatherings of fellowship.   AB04115

I am always thinking of the days that I associated with you. Never will I forget you and the spiritual meetings held in your city.  ABU1722

These gatherings of ours will never be forgotten; they will ever be remembered. We ask GOD that the results therefrom may appear.   ABU0958

The Baha'i New Year's festival that you celebrated was very appropriate and good. The Holy Spirit shines forth from this festival.  AB12155

during these times due to the arrival of Tablets and travelers, a fresh joy and boundless delight has been attained by the friends  AB07936

The feast that thou didst spread and the bounteous table that thou didst prepare was truly a divine feast and a heavenly banquet.   AB11957

It is hoped that soon we shall gather together in the assembly of unity and the seat of truth in the shade of the Divine Lote Tree.   BH02962

By the glory of my Lord, there will be for your brilliant assemblage an evident sign and great effects in the spirit and the hearts.  AB06457

Let all in this meeting drink deep of the wine of true mystic knowledge that they might sing in choruses of certitude and assurance.  AB04058

I do supplicate God to confirm that spiritual assembly, that gathering of commemoration, to that whereby the merciful faces brighten  AB04932

make their radiant faces lamps of guidance in the gatherings of divine knowledge and signs of bounty in the assemblies of exposition   AB07253

I hope thou wilt memorize all the poetry of the Blessed Perfection and chant with wonderful melody in the assemblages and gatherings.  AB02954

This is a good house -- lovely situation -- beautiful view. You must be very proud of it that the first Bahai meeting was held here.   ABU1909

Tongues are blessed by the mention of God in gatherings of prayer, invoking confirmation for you from the heaven of power and might.   AB05888

Attendance at the gatherings of the friends is specifically to keep them alert, vigilant, loving and attracted to the divine Kingdom.  AB04183

We are having a very good meeting, very sweet and full of the Spirit. Thanks be to God that the love of Baha'u'llah has gathered us.   ABU1769

Thus will thy lamp, made resplendent from the light of heavenly horizon of His favours, shine forth and illumine the contingent world.  AB07459

One must fix the heart upon the effusions of the Supreme Concourse, whose radiance spreads across the horizons like the light of dawn.  AB03953

Gather the handmaids of the Merciful in the meeting of remembrance and occupy yourselves with explaining the mysteries of the Kingdom.  AB10178

The chamber that thou hast made into a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and a gathering place for the mention of the divine Beauty hath been accepted  AB10432

Those wonderful meetings were charged with the surging spirit of divine confirmation which radiated from the presence of Baha'u'llah.   AB05060

From the news of the continuation of the spiritual gathering and the assembly of the friends of God, much joy and gladness was obtained  AB02670

desired that thy home become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, a center of mysteries, and a dawning-place of lights. Praise be to God, it became so   AB12106

Your letter was received and indicated that you had gathered in a meeting and with utmost spirituality had turned to the Kingdom of God  AB12286

they have called the church "bay'ah" in the terminology of the holy books, meaning a place for gathering of different peoples and races  ABU3281

As to Chinese, Japanese and Indian students, there is no objection to their being admitted into your spiritual gatherings and meetings.  AB00306

Let them raise the melody and song of the lovers, attune the lute and harp of longing, and at every moment lift up their voice in song.  AB07931

this servant's desire would be that the faces of the friends might shine like the resplendent moon in this gathering of the All-Merciful  AB12440

They establish assemblies and gatherings and their affairs are conducted through consultation among them for the exaltation of Thy Word   AB02635

The letter arrived like a morning breeze bearing divine love, bringing fragrance from the gardens of unity to those who love His Beauty   AB00675

Khan is present in this gathering...Your hosting of the beloved of the All-Merciful was accepted and God willing it shall be carried out  AB11987

"In that region they have adorned a meeting with the fragrances of holiness and organized an assembly like unto the delectable paradise."  AB02135

Thou hast praised the meetings at Stuttgart. Thou hast also written that at Leipzig the friends have a meeting of the utmost spirituality  AB12500

As for the nineteen day feast, be most diligent in maintaining this, for it is the cause of joy, unity and love among the friends of God.  AB11338

At all times you have been and are in our thoughts, and when we gather in fellowship meetings we remember you and become joyous and glad.   AB04578

The glad tidings of the steadfastness of the friends and the arrangement of sublime gatherings appeared like an unveiled beauteous maiden.  AB08658

Chant the verses of divine unity in the celestial sanctuaries, and engage in glorifying the unique, peerless Lord in heavenly gatherings.   AB07241

because the friends of God in Persia are all rejoiced in commemorating you in the meetings and assemblies, in houses and Mashrak-el-Azcars  AB03535

You wrote that twice weekly in Washington gatherings of love are held where the friends associate with one another in utmost spirituality.  AB00238

Deliver always eloquent speeches in the spiritual meetings and divine gathering-places; calling everyone to the fundamental basis of Unity.  AB03136

Thou hast written that a Minister has asked Mr. Kinny to hold from time to time the Baha'i meetings in his church. This is very acceptable.  AB04245

They must adorn spiritual gatherings, chant songs and strike up melodies and anthems to bring the listeners into a state of joy and ecstasy   AB02435

Whenever an illumined assembly of the friends of God is gathered, Abdu'l-Baha, although bodily absent, is yet present in spirit and in soul.  AB05299

O ye friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! Arrange ye a meeting of fellowship, and in that divine gathering raise the anthem of praise and glorification.  AB09610

Your spiritual assembly should be a source of joy to the world of humanity and be so illumined with light as to dispel the darkened horizons  AB03116

It will be beneficial if some of the friends gather in the place adjoining Washington...the organization of a Baha'i meeting will be harmless  AB10703

Although your gathering is small, yet since you are firm and steadfast, in the future this gathering will greatly expand and become complete   AB07096

As for the assembly established in that city, my hope is that gathering will become illumined and like a rose garden spread sweet fragrances.  AB00949

O ye friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! Arrange ye a gathering of fellowship, and in that divine assembly raise the melody of praise and glorification.  AB09610

Verily, these verse shall be sung in the divine meetings and in the assemblages of the spiritual in the course of ages and centuries to come   AB07021

arrange gatherings of fellowship and occupy yourselves with the mention of Truth, but with the utmost wisdom and observance of proper timing   AB07123

ye have associated together in a new assembly and have adorned your congregation afresh and have no wish but to serve at the sacred threshold  AB04501

Such assemblies and gatherings will greatly aid the promotion of the Word and all the audience, whether friends or not, will become affected.  AB09121

It is a good gathering. Thank God that believers are gathered around this table from every part, with utmost sincerity, unity and friendship.   ABU1456

Thou hast adorned spiritual gatherings and made great effort to teach the Cause of God, creating unity among the hearts of the people of Baha.  AB12666

In the gathering of friends, in the presence of the brothers, in solitude and in public, their noble mention is constantly on truthful tongues.  AB04943

The celebration which ye held on the fifth of April in commemoration of the Day of Meeting was indeed most impressive and had spiritual effects  AB12392

I read thy favored letter and was glad (to learn of) the gatherings of the friends of God in your spiritual assemblages and brilliant meetings.  AB06457

"in the feast of oneness we are helper and helped" ... "become honored in such a gathering and become intoxicated and content in such a feast"   AB02440

The results of this education are to obtain the Bestowals of the Most Glorious Lord and the appearance of the virtues of the world of humanity.   AB04065

But the spiritual, luminous, divine gathering is the assembly of the loved ones, for these souls have attached their hearts to the true Beloved   AB01977

We hope that in this gathering we shall partake of the heavenly table. We are pleased with this assembly because it has been united through love.  ABU0001

At this moment a group of friends are present, including travelers from the land of Qaf, the honored Hakim-i-Ilahi and others, forming an assembly  AB07916

Praise be to God that the friends of God are gathered in the place of remembrance and are enabled to glorify and praise in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.   AB03504

The formation of gatherings and the establishment of benevolent institutions is most acceptable, but these must be founded with the utmost wisdom.  AB02287

you have organized an assembly in Japan and are occupied day and night with the remembrance of God and engaged in spreading the divine fragrances.   AB03151

At this hour when the sovereign of the East hath vanished in the West, and when in this gathering some persons of rank are present and in discourse  AB08775

You constantly spread the feast of hospitality, arrange gatherings of love, prepare celebrations of joy for the friends, and set an abundant table.   AB01179

Every tree that hath firm roots will bear fruit. Therefore I hope that through the bounties of the Kingdom of God ye will become two fruitful trees.  AB12284

that through thy pure breath thou mayest bestow the sweet fragrance of the Kind Beloved upon the spiritual gathering and the assembly of the Baha'is  AB09860

in Sundays you go to the ground of the Mashriku'l Adhkar and raise the melody of the Kingdom of God for those who are present it is very acceptable   AB06240

Thou hast written in regard to the Sunday meeting, saying that it is established in the utmost of love. Undoubtedly you must persevere in holding it  AB12024

Day and night they must strive to kindle the fire of the love of God and make the homeland of the Ancient Beauty the envy of the gardens of Paradise.  AB03917

Know that in every home when God is praised and prayed to, and His Kingdom proclaimed, that home is a garden of God and a paradise of His happiness.   AB05435

The divine friends must supplicate and implore... so they may continuously arrange feasts and establish celebrations out of intense joy and delight.   AB11631

A group is present and His Holiness Zaynu'l-Muqarrabin is observing, and some from outside have entered the gathering, and the midday meal is prepared  AB01786

What you wrote about the gathering of the friends every Sunday and the recitation of verses and chanting of prayers brought infinite joy and delight.   AB00271

Hold in thy grasp the cup of the love of God, and kindle the fire of passionate devotion and rapture in the assemblies of the handmaidens of the Lord.  AB05848

On the night of the feast ye entertained the beloved and were occupied in the service of the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful One.  AB06956

Praise be to God, you have arranged an assembly and sought the good pleasure of the All-Knowing Lord. Assuredly you will be confirmed and successful.   AB07002

From the gathering of those illuminated faces and flowers of the rose-garden (of God) in Camp Mineola utmost joy and fragrance (to me) was the result.  AB04499

Well is it with you that you were enabled to carry out the divine ordinance and held festivities in that blessed village and arranged a joyous feast.   AB06158

In every clime and land spiritual assemblies are established and gatherings of the All-Merciful prepared, with the table of infinite bounties spread.   AB02140

"Jinab-i-Darbaghi and Khalil and Yahya and other friends were gathered in a feast and were engaged in the mention and praise of the Goal of the world."  BH04600

made his church the Baha'i meeting place... transformed that [earthly] church into a heavenly temple and made it the gathering place of spiritual ones   AB00586

Thou art well remembered and often mentioned in this spiritual gathering and hath been the recipient of great blessings in the communion with the Lord.  AB08585


In the gathering of spiritual ones He hath spread the carpet of fellowship and love, and in the assembly of luminous ones He hath lit the lamp of love.   AB05314

You wrote about the spirituality and radiance of the friends of God, that they have arisen to establish meetings and have engaged in guiding all people   AB05733

"the teaching meetings are the envy of Paradise and the gatherings of the friends are coveted by garden and grove, inspiring guidance in every assembly"  AB01934

And make the Wednesday gathering at Willow permanent, and surely God's dear maidservant Mrs. Gibbs will persist, and indeed she is kind and hospitable.   AB00493

O Shoghi! Beseech God that thou mayest become a brilliant lamp in the assemblage of the spiritual ones and attain unto the breaths of the All-Merciful.   AB11489

At this hour when the Sovereign of the East hath vanished in the West, and when in this gathering various officials are present and engaged in discourse  AB08775

in that city the divine candle was lit, the light of guidance shone forth, the call to the Kingdom was raised, and a spiritual assembly was established   AB06044

In the building there will be an organ, balconies and a rostrum especially for prayers and devotional programs but addresses may be given there as well.  ABU2854

There will be a gathering there - a gathering which, God willing, will be the cause of the gathering together of the world beneath the divine Lote-Tree.   BH02894

At least once per week, it should become the gathering-place of the chosen friends who have discovered the secrets and become the intimates of mysteries.  AB12083

was read by the Most Great Branch in the Most Luminous Presence, and was observed by the Maidens enshrined within the tabernacles of wisdom and utterance   BH03957

Thanks be to God, this meeting has a divine meaning. While others are attracted to material things, praise be to God, you are attracted to the spiritual.   ABU0411

Your letter was received and its contents indicated that you had gathered at Mrs. Butker's home and were engaged in discussions about the divine teachings  AB12399

The Eternal Cupbearer in the divine feast offers the wine of the Covenant, and the veiled Beloved from the hidden realm manifests His effulgent splendor.   AB03008

Continue as long as thou canst this melody in the gatherings of the beloved, thus may the minds find rest and joy and become in tune with the love of God.   AB05778

He was very pleased with the news that the New Year's festival was celebrated in Leipzig by the friends, and they were gathered in remembrance of the Lord.  AB12198

Such gatherings are very praiseworthy and acceptable, for all beget joy and fragrance, the hearts become illumined and the despondent souls become heavenly.  AB09735

If thou seekest after the light of the Kingdom, hasten undoubtedly to the meetings of the believers, in order that the rays of truth may reflect in thy heart  AB07477

O friends of 'Abdu'l-Baha! The melodies issuing forth from the spiritual throats of those divine friends have brought ecstasy and rapture to yearning hearts.  AB05373

It is not a duty incumbent upon them; it is not obligatory, but if they have no special demand upon their time, the Believers must be present at the meetings.  ABU2919

Days and nights he would either engage in visitation and prayer, or serve the friends, or water the gardens and flower-beds of the brilliantly-shining Shrine.  AB00469

Every evening at the known gathering of "Iranians", multitudes of people assemble and detailed discussions take place through the favors of the Blessed Beauty  AB03559

Especially did they gather in Chicago, seeking fellowship with each other, chanting the verses of divine unity, and engaging in service to the Kingdom of God.  AB04504

Jinab-i Aqa Muhammad Isma'il is intimate with the breath of Gabriel and is desirous of composing this letter, being present now in this assembly and gathering.  AB08684

On this Friday morning, which has been specifically designated for the gathering of the servants of God in mosques and congregations for the remembrance of God   BH09324

These are a gathering whom Thou hast united through Thy grace...They have taken refuge in the cave of unity and concord and have shunned discord and difference.  AB00887

This is a blessed night because Consul Schwarz and his respectful wife have come from Germany with the greatest of longing so that they may associate with you.   ABU0631

In reality, the radiant, pure hearts are the Mashrak-el-Azcar and from them the voice of supplication and invocation continually reacheth the Supreme Concourse.  AB06288

the gathering that you arranged in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Nash on the day of the Naw-Ruz feast was an illumined gathering and a source of divine inspirations.   AB05188

such a luminous assembly has been formed from such blessed souls, who are all faithful servants of the Manifestation of Sinai and the true Sun of the Abha Beauty  AB04100

This newspaper will perish but that newspaper is indestructible. The thoughts of this newspaper is material but the conceptions of that newspaper are spiritual.   ABU2626

Verses were recited, prayers were chanted, and the explanation of clear proofs, odes, praises and divine attributes brought the people of the Kingdom into motion   AB05782

after the arrival of the blessed Tablets, gatherings were held for several days during the afternoon hours and the friends were engaged in the remembrance of God.   BH01674

As to what you had written with reference to the Nineteen Day Feast, He said: This is very good, very satisfactory. This is accounted as a just and righteous deed.  BH00944

Nearly one hundred and fifty of the friends would gather. At night there were songs of glorification that reached the Supreme Concourse. It was a very happy time.   AB01467

Today whatever assembly is established that has for its purpose the welfare of mankind and is attached to the invocation of God, that gathering is a celestial one.  AB07348

Thus arrange gatherings of fellowship and establish divine assemblies so that in those sacred gatherings you may engage in praising and glorifying the Ancient Lord   AB00714

O friends, enter into ecstasy and joy from the melody of the Supreme Concourse and raise the cry of "Glory be to my Lord, the Most Glorious" to the highest heaven.   AB04497

The Kingdom of God is like unto the firmament wherein the birds of sanctification soar in this infinite space, but the insects of earth are deprived of such flight.  AB08210

It was chanted and sung with the most wonderful melodies in the gathering of the friends. Hearts became joyful and souls were delighted by its truths and meanings.   AB04568

It is incumbent upon the people of every city that upon receiving fresh news of the loved ones of God, they gather in a place and drink a beverage in the love of God  BH03976

Those who were with Me remained around Me without sleep. When morning breathed forth, they drank tea and proceeded to the city by command of One mighty and knowing.   BH09251

praise be to God, a spiritual gathering has been established in Paris as well, where souls of assured faith congregate to engage in remembrance of the Kingdom of God  AB00903

it indicated that a luminous gathering has been established in Budapest, and blessed souls have attended and discussions that yield eternal results have taken place   AB00737

Until love and fellowship and unity and accord reach this degree, the Beloved of confirmation and success will not appear unveiled in the assembly of spiritual ones.  AB00314

As to the spiritual meeting which ye have organized for diffusing the fragrances of God (i.e., for teaching the Truth), this is a good thing that ye have performed.   AB04933

Convey the longing of 'Abdu'l-Baha to the members of the Spiritual Assembly and likewise to the other assemblies - the Assembly of Unity and the Assembly of Service.  AB01113

They had a large meeting every evening, in which gathered many people and there I spoke to them on spiritual subjects. There I met many cultured and educated people.   ABU0377

The friends and loved ones should occupy themselves with the remembrance of God on such days and pass their time in the utmost joy and happiness without interruption.  AB06951

Blessed are ye for having gathered together and made mention of your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Choosing. Blessed is the house wherein the mention of My Name is raised.  BH06953

Now you, the hosts, have arranged Baha'i meetings and are occupied in mentioning the words of God, and have filled yourselves with the fragrances of the Abha Paradise.  AB08238

gathering of the friends with others during the blessed Ridvan festival in utmost fellowship and harmony. Tablets, prayers and poems were chanted in heavenly melodies   AB11830

Thy home hath become a nest for the birds of the Kingdom, and divine birds gather there, offering prayers and supplications to the court of oneness with sweet melodies  AB12632

We recalled the days when you were present in the spiritual gatherings in Haifa, hearing 'Abdu'l-Baha's addresses and utterances and being the recipient of His favors.  AB08178

Regarding what was mentioned about holding remembrance gatherings on Fridays with M.Sh.'s permission, when presented He said: Wisdom must be observed in all conditions.  BH01773

His honor Aqa Siyyid Hadi arrived safely and securely, and is resting and reposing under the shelter of the Holy Threshold, having attained the bounty of the Lord God.   AB05908

thou hast set apart one of the rooms in thy home for meetings of the lovers of God, so that from it may ascend to the Lord of Revelation the clamour of chanted prayers   AB11973

Two blessed souls from among the servants of the Most Glorious Beauty attained the blessing of visiting the Sacred Threshold, and placed their foreheads upon the ground  AB05374

"If we do not meet in this physical world, I ask from God that we may meet in the realm of vision, and that day by day the revelation of the Kingdom may become greater."  AB03479

You had written about the establishment of a gathering. It brought great joy that praise be to God that city was illumined and the banner of the Kingdom was raised high.  AB06746

Observe what a luminous gathering this is and what a divine assembly! It is a time of joy and delight, for this is the enlightened age and the century of manifestation.   AB06249

The news expressed the love and devotion of the beloved of Paris, who met you with the greatest joy and cheerfulness, and who are themselves in love, peace and harmony.   AB04000

The meeting of the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful take the place of his ignorance. I hope that they may be the cause of joy and happiness to thee."  AB09456

When the friends come together with one another in intimate fellowship and unity in the feast, the light of divine unity shines forth and infinite bounties are bestowed.  AB06070

In meetings the writings of Baha'u'llah should be read, divine proofs explained, teaching done, prayers recited, and if there is news from somewhere it can be mentioned.   AB02343

Wherefore, with great gladness, establish ye spiritual assemblies, and engage ye in uttering the praise and glorification of the Lord, and calling Him Holy and Most Great.  AB02868

This is a good gathering, a very spiritual meeting, an orderly and well-organized assembly. Many gatherings are formed in this world but they lack order and organization.   ABU0420

A gathering is now convened and an assemblage hath united to strive with heart and soul that they may bestow upon the friends a share of the bountiful showers of Thy grace  AB01999

The gatherings that are formed in thy home are under the shadow of the outpourings of the All-Merciful, and the seekers are quickened by the breathings of the Holy Spirit.  AB12180

The doors are open and the dwelling is the banquet-hall of the All-Loving Lord...The circling-place of the Concourse on High calls out: "The Beloved is here - come, come!"  AB10104

Those souls who have newly entered the divine law are all mentioned in this divine gathering and will, God willing, become the manifestation of great divine confirmations.   AB11632

If, for the present, you prepare or establish a home in New York, through by renting it, to become a center for the gathering of the believers of God, it is very acceptable.  AB07833

Your loving brother hath made mention of you in the assembly of the All Merciful and on each occasion that he mentioned you he did so with the utmost sincerity and gladness.  AB06192

Two meetings in one city are not conducive to spirituality. Therefore, strive so that the unity of the assembly may be the cause of unity, harmony and complete spirituality.  AB02761

All the divine friends gathered at the blessed Threshold and engaged in praising and glorifying the Lord of creation. They rejoiced and made merry, and drank cups of pure tea  AB09446

Discussion of the importance and benefits of the teaching gatherings, and hope for establishing "a new gathering for explaining divine meanings and chanting verses of unity"   AB03341

certainly if public meetings are organized, it will cause the spread of the Cause of God. In those public gatherings, general matters should be discussed, not specific ones.   AB03394

Through the special grace of the Desired One, I hope that thou wilt warm the gatherings of the handmaidens of the Merciful and bring them to a state of attraction and rapture.  AB07644

Praise be to God, that Assembly is a divine assembly and that gathering is enamored and enchanted with that celestial Beloved. You have arranged a feast of unity and agreement  AB02496

In a gathering where Baha'i children were assembled...those children, like the angels of heaven, with illumined hearts turned towards the Abha Kingdom and offered such prayers  AB12735

And in the evening some of the eastern friends attained the presence and received spiritual expansion and joy of heart from the loving counsels and exhortations of the Beloved  ABU2822

However, he must continually turn to the Abha Kingdom in American gatherings and engage in speaking and discourse. Assuredly, the confirmations of the Holy Spirit will arrive.  AB05421

We were extremely pleased and hopeful to learn of the arrival in Yazd of the Afnan of the Blessed Tree, Jinab-i-Aqa Siyyid Ahmad, and the establishment of spiritual gatherings   AB05609

Jinab-i-Amin offers the highest praise for the spiritual gatherings of the Jewish friends, who truly show complete initiative and great endeavor in service to the Cause of God   AB01604

The best of undertakings is to gather together every Sunday to expound upon the pure and goodly life and universal brotherhood which reveal the philosophy of universal religion  AB07719

consultation took place regarding the increase of teaching meetings, and complete agreement was reached that nine meetings should be added and established in various locations   AB11876

Wherever and whenever the friends gather together and with complete joy and fragrance perfume their nostrils with the fragrances of the All-Merciful, that assembly is luminous.   AB02214

"It would be a pity to praise you among prisoners - it must either be in the heart or in spiritual gatherings." Praise be to God, spiritual gatherings exist both here and there.   BH03058

Each day they adorn a gathering and manifest ecstasy and rapture, and find repose beneath the blessed Tree... sing with the most wonderful melodies in the meetings of remembrance  AB12640

Praise be to God that you attended the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar Convention in New York and witnessed that celebration and enthusiasm, and became intimate and harmonious with the friends  AB05656

Say: Gather ye together around the Law which We have ordained in truth... Seize ye these days and then gather together around that which God, the Lord of all mankind, hath willed.  BH04210

If the gatherings in Iraq are so radiant, surely their sweet fragrance will eventually spread throughout the horizons and the fame of their spirituality will encompass the world.   AB02781

As for the spiritual gatherings which are assemblies for presenting proofs and evidences and for the progress and education of youth - these are truly worthy of the utmost praise.  AB03115

Gather all the friends together and like a candle aflame in the assembly convey to all this servant's longing, so they may be moved to ecstasy and joy by the sanctified fragrances  AB01581

Now this gathering is a heavenly gathering; its union is divine; its oneness is of the heart and spirit and tongue. This is true in all respects; this is why it is so unshakeable.  ABU0470

O thou bright candle of the gathering of the love of God! In this soul-refreshing divine wilderness, spread thy wings and take flight, and begin to warble thy melodies of mystery.  AB08128

In this moment when I am companion to the spiritual messenger, a letter arrived from one of the friends of God to Jinab-i-Siyyid Taqi, and in that letter your names were mentioned.   AB02871

The gathering of the friends on the night of martyrdom of the Primal Point...This gathering is most blessed. My hope is that this gathering will cause such enthusiasm and excitement  AB12254

I am very happy that they have the nineteen day Feasts; they should become more and more spiritual. Though My Body is here, I am always with you in Heart and Spirit at those Feasts.  ABU1635

"Our divine Assembly is There! Our spiritual Feast is There! Our eternal union is There! This meeting is only an introduction to the One prepared for us by the Blessed Perfection."   ABU0469

In the summer season, hasten to the gatherings of the friends so that the summer season may become a soul-refreshing springtime and create a wondrous spirit in the hearts and souls.  AB11520

Therefore, it would be better if an undisclosed location were designated where the loved ones of God might gather by chance and engage in worship, prayer and the chanting of verses.  AB11478

you are present at all times in the blessed spot in the gathering of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, and you are manifest and apparent in the assembly of the leaves of paradise   AB06981

I hope through divine assistance that day by day your gathering will expand and your unity and harmony will increase. May that gathering receive bounties from the realm of the Kingdom  AB04340

That gathering was a heavenly assembly, illumined by the lamp of divine guidance. The hearts were united, the spirits were gladdened, and all eyes were turned toward the Abha Kingdom.  AB12400

Your loved ones have gathered in this august assembly seeking Your all-encompassing grace and the manifestation of the lights of Your favors which appear in all the supreme gatherings   AB02638

On that night thy house was the nest and the shelter of the birds of God. The divine melodies and the celestial lyres made that place a feast of heaven and an assembly of the Kingdom.   AB00628

It will reach such a degree that at night, from this mountain, the Most Great Melody will ascend to the Supreme Concourse, and at dawn the voice of prayers will reach the Abha Kingdom.  ABU2151

O servants of the Merciful! Gather ye in meetings on special occasions for the love of God and showing the utmost wisdom be ye engaged in the remembrance of that All-Merciful Beloved.   AB01891

Know that the pure and tranquil soul who constantly preserves the Covenant of God, when it comes to the meetings of prayer and praise, utters praiseworthy deeds and laudable attributes  AB11213

And on the day of your feast, this firm and steadfast one, 'Abdu'l-Baha, met with all the friends in that tent in the utmost joy and delight, and we listened to the verses and tablets   AB05626

Ever in the exalted gatherings and spiritual meetings, open thy lips in praise and glorification of the Most Glorious Beauty and raise thy voice with the most wonderful melody and song   AB05330

What an assembly is this that has been established purely for consultation on spiritual matters! And what a gathering is this that has been formed for the expression of sacred opinions!  AB01572

The gathering you arranged was truly a reflection of the heavenly realm, with grandeur, dignity and beauty, for it was an assembly formed for the establishment of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar   AB04774

"In that gathering are assembled souls whose faces are radiant with the lights of Thy love, whose breasts are dilated with Thy remembrance, whose hearts are attracted to Thy beauty..."   AB03712

If they cannot arrange to go every Sunday, they must go every other Sunday, if not every other Sunday then once a month. But they must come together and must keep up the Sunday School.   ABU3441

The friends arrange four gatherings each week, and through chanting verses and diffusing the divine fragrances enliven heart and soul, and find rest in the shade of the palm tree of hope  AB12026

Blessed be your gathering, and your remembrance, and your utterance, and your love, and your fellowship, and your intentions, and your purposes in the path of God, the Lord of the worlds   BH10724

Therefore, with rent garment and disheveled hair and burning countenance, chant songs in the gathering of the friends, raise spiritual melodies, and lift up the anthem of the Abha Kingdom  AB09092

Your love is the reason I have come here. I have come to see you, not to go on leisurely excursions, for we are in search of people, and wherever we find them, it brings us matchless joy.  ABU3708

Gather ye together as one soul at the divine spiritual table, and drink of the pure wine of the Greatest Remembrance in this Most Great Revelation, in the name of the Lord of all peoples.   BH04067

Your letter was received. It was a rose-garden from which the sweet fragrances of the love of God were inhaled. It indicated that you have held a meeting with the utmost joy and fragrance.  AB03957

I have written in many Tablets that the friends must speak in the meetings. Some of the believers forget this half and push forward the other half - which is about reading the Tablets etc.  ABU2052

Aga Reza and seven others lived in one small room. They rested, ate and slept in this one room. Every night they had spiritual meetings, chanting prayers and poems till long past midnight.  ABU1418

We must, in the night seasons and at dawn, at sunset and sunrise, with utmost humility and supplication beseech and implore the True One, exalted be His glory, to protect His loved ones...   BH01578

thy letter...produced happiness and joy, for it evinced affinity and love among the maid-servants of the Merciful One gathering in the assemblages and commemorating the name of the True One  AB02874

the honored Sheikh carried out by proxy - he lit candles on your behalf in the blessed Shrine. Likewise, we all performed a special visitation in the illumined Shrine on the designated day   AB03147

Those who repose upon the carpet of oneness, and who are seated in the court of love, and who recline upon the cushions of eternity, and who gaze upon the Countenance of the Ancient of Days   BH10871

that sacred gathering must always be adorned, and each year several souls from among the saplings of the divine garden should grow and develop through the bounty of the mysteries of teaching  AB07475

"Wherever a lamp is lighted in the night, naturally people are attracted and gather around it. When you see such an assemblage as this, you may know that a light is illumining the darkness."  ABU0259

that all may gather together beneath the shadow of His Most Great and Most Generous Name, around the point of divine unity and the center of detachment, in the spiritual and heartfelt realms  AB12800

these flowing verses will in the future be inscribed in pure gold in the divine court and palace, and will be chanted with the most wondrous melodies in gatherings of remembrance and praise   AB06727

Just as a remembrance gathering was arranged in the lower realm, in the highest horizon and the Most Glorious Kingdom the spiritual beings also engaged in praising that essence of certitude.  AB00894

One of the rabbis entered a meeting of the friends with an agitated heart and left with an expanded breast, thankful, grateful, cheerful and glad at what he saw of the Baha'is' love for him.   AB01530

In gatherings of intimacy they should speak of spiritual communion and soar to the horizon of glory, and engage in such melody and song as to bring the world of creation into joy and rapture.   AB00384

It is my hope that the meetings of the Baha'i Assembly in New York shall become like meetings of the Supreme Concourse. When you assemble, you must reflect the lights of the heavenly Kingdom.   ABU1721

When the spiritual ones arrange the gathering of joy and the Baha'is rest in the shade of the Tuba tree, the feast of the Covenant becomes adorned beneath the shadow of the companionable tree   AB06834

Hold the spiritual meeting at the stated times and be thou its candle, giving (the friends) such happiness and joy through the glad-tidings of God as will make them joyful and full of ecstasy.  AB04493

Hold meetings and read and chant the heavenly teachings, so that city may be illumined with the light of reality and that country become a veritable paradise by the strength of the Holy Spirit  AB05248

Blessed is the house honored by your footsteps wherein was raised the mention of My Beloved and your Beloved...Blessed is the master of the house who hath arisen amidst all peoples to serve God  BH02711

Your letter written on Naw-Ruz Day in the gathering of friends was received...in Germany the servants and handmaidens of the Merciful arranged a gathering of fellowship and love on Naw-Ruz Day   AB03320

Thou hast written that a meeting was held in thy house and there prevailed the utmost unity and accord. The harmony and felicity of the believers imparts happiness and beatitude to 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB01964

but you must attend the gatherings of the friends and cause all to become united and loving toward one another. I hope that you and Mr. Ralston will be the cause of blessed meetings being formed  AB03696

The unity meetings (nineteen day feasts) you should celebrate splendidly, and with one another you should be exceedingly kind and affectionate so that this may astonish the people of that city.   AB01963

Today the divine friends must recite the verses and divine counsels in their spiritual gatherings each week, arise to act according to them, and invite all the friends to put them into practice.  AB01350

Blessed is the house wherein My remembrance and praise have been raised, and blessed are the tongues that have recited My verses and the souls that have gathered therein to hear them in My days.   BH02804

gather the loved ones of Egypt together...When there is a spiritual gathering, have those letters read and deliver an extensive discourse on divine counsels and exhortations to the ears of souls   AB03283

The chanting of verses, whether individually or collectively, is the cause of the penetration of the Word of God in hearts and the reason for the flame of the fire of the love of God in breasts.   AB03329

The enkindled candle is bright, and the consumed moth is witness to every gathering. The friends must needs be attracted and enkindled, and the loved ones must needs be enraptured and transported.  AB00555

we would gather like stars in those celestial mansions and flock together like birds in those meadows, chanting the most wondrous melodies in praise and glorification of our Lord, the All-Merciful  AB08365

In gatherings and meetings, play and sing with the melody of Barbad and the psalms of David, that the angels of the Supreme Concourse may experience joy and delight and obtain spiritual happiness   AB11980

Their gatherings are illumined by the light of the Covenant and their meetings are the envy of every assembly. They are engaged in the remembrance of God and known for service to the Cause of God.   AB06974

Regarding the meeting you arranged at the home of the handmaiden of God, Rose, on November 30, 1918, and the letter you prepared - the contents are known, therefore sending it now is not necessary.  AB00925

These meetings here in London are good, the knowledge and the intention are good, but how can there be a result without action? In Egypt these meetings take place, there is only talk and no result.  ABU1590

Name the meeting "the gathering of fellowship" because the term "consultation" is not necessary - perhaps strangers will object and engage in fabrications. Therefore this name is more appropriate.   AB03230

Now have we, the beloved of God, gathered together to partake of material and spiritual food. This is a blessed Supper of the Lord, for we have gathered under the Shadow of the Blessed Perfection.   ABU0191

The Nineteen Day festivity is of the utmost importance that the friends should gather at a meeting where, in complete attunement and love, they should engage in the remembrance of God and His praise  AB07508

Look at the Great and Glorious favors of the Blessed Perfection in bringing together these people from different parts of the world, to sit them down at a table in Haifa at the foot of Mount Carmel.  ABU2644

The meeting which was arranged with the utmost union in the studio of Miss . . . was in reality spiritual, merciful and illumined. Abdul-Baha will be present in his heart and soul with that meeting.   AB04289

These days of our meeting were blissful days. They cannot be bettered. I met you every day and I always found the hearts attracted, the eyes turned unto the Abha Kingdom. There cannot be better days.  ABU1379

It is dawn, and the breeze of the All-Merciful is wafting from the Valley of the blessed heart. The rosy-cheeked Cup-bearer of rapture and attraction is the witness of the gathering of the loved ones.  AB08791

O faithful brothers! Praise ye the Lord Most High, that ye are all intoxicated with the wine of the primordial covenant of the Beloved, and all hold cups in your hands at the feast of the love of God.  AB09150

Engage ye in the remembrance of God at dawn; rise ye up to praise and glorify Him. Blessed are ye, and joy be yours, O ye the righteous, for having established the Dawning-Point of the Praises of God.  AB06420

Multiple teaching gatherings are needed. The gatherings of the friends should be classes for learning to teach, meaning that in every meeting the focus of discussion should be on proofs and evidences.  AB08004

It is dawn, and the breeze of the All-Merciful is wafting from the Valley of the Sacred Heart. The rose-cheeked Cup-bearer of rapture and attraction is the witness of the gathering of the beloved ones.  AB08791

O spiritual friends! Open your eyes to the Abha Kingdom - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones. All is light! Close your eyes to the contingent world and the lower Kingdom - all is darkness.  AB08097

Ever gather the friends in the spiritual assembly and occupy yourselves with the remembrance and thought of that Peerless Beloved. Chant the verses of unity and glorify the favors of the Glorious Lord   AB03220

Observe the gatherings of the disciples after Christ: Their light is still shining, their power is still revealing and their trumpets still resounding throughout the ages. Such is the spiritual meeting.  AB04539

This is a bounty at whose mention the unitarians rejoice and the sincere ones long for - it is sustenance for souls, a heavenly feast, a gift that revives hearts, and a blessing that refreshes spirits.   AB00554

Remember when thou didst enter the Most Glorious Presence and didst hear the melodies of thy Lord, the Most High, and didst attain that which flowed from the mouth of Grandeur in His most exalted words.   BH02120

Remember when thou didst enter the seat of the Throne and didst drink the choice wine of utterance from the Kawthar of thy Lord's lips, the All-Merciful, and didst attain unto the Beloved of the worlds.   BH04975

The Unity Meeting is a very beneficial establishment and if it continues it will yield great results. The feast spread by Aqa Musa was truly a heavenly table since it led to establishing a pilgrim house.  AB01983

O Lord! Grant them victory through the hosts of the Concourse on High, and aid them through the armies of the angels of love and purity. Send forth holy melodies and perfume the gatherings of fellowship.  AB04506

Praise be to God that your home is a nest and shelter for the divine birds, your face is radiant and brilliant with the light of the love of God, and your tongue speaks forth divine proofs and evidences.  AB04887

Praise be to God that those brethren are gathered in joy, and in the meeting place of fellowship they are in utmost ecstasy and delight, in perfect harmony with one another and in complete love with all.  AB06212

In the gathering of remembrance, create such enthusiasm and rapture that the melody of prayer may reach the Abha Kingdom and the cry of "O Glory of the Most Glorious!" may arrive at the Supreme Concourse.  AB12803

Praise be to God that you have gathered together in utmost affection and love, and on the Birth Day of the Exalted One (the Bab) you attained perfect fellowship and joy, and engaged in the mention of God.  AB04915

Gather together the handmaids of the All-Merciful, adorn the meeting place of the knowledge of God, counsel each one, explain the divine counsels, and teach the manners and customs of the people of truth.   AB03052

This is purely a spiritual meeting! Praise be to God, your hearts are turned to Him, your souls are attracted to the Kingdom, you have spiritual aspirations, and your thoughts soar above the world of dust.  ABU0665

The Assembly that ye have established in that town is an effulgent ray from the Realm of Glory: I pray God that men's hearts may become illumined thereby and their souls rejoiced by His great glad tidings   AB06782

Thank thou God for that thou art assisted to establish a spiritual meeting in that city. That assembly is the rose-garden of the Cause of God and that meeting is the gathering-place of the beloved of God.   AB06152

As for the children of the friends who gather weekly and read prayers and the Hidden Words, convey to them on my behalf utmost affection and loving-kindness, and extend to them the Most Glorious Greetings.  AB10850

One night in Akka there was a general feast where many souls from everywhere were present, and the table was spread with friends from Isfahan, Shiraz, Tabriz, Paris, London, America, Egypt, Syria and India   ABU1977

The general meeting should be wholly devotional in character. If possible, a separate home should be had. It should be had at the expense of the Temple, --a quiet place, entirely in the hands of the Cause.   ABU1714

The gathering you arranged was a heavenly assembly, and the spirit of 'Abdu'l-Baha was hovering around that meeting. That night all eyes were asleep but you and Professor Waldschmidt were alert and wakeful.   AB12192

Do not suspend meetings and gatherings, but conduct them with utmost wisdom, and let not more than nine persons gather in one place, for the very fact of gathering causes apprehension among the antagonists.   AB01479

establish a spiritual meeting place where from the incense of sanctity and purity will rise up to God, assemble there with fragrance and spirituality and celebrate the Name of your Lord by day and by night.   AB02446

Ismu'llah mentioned the feast of the two leaves and it was accepted. Tonight, which is the twenty-first of Rabi'u'th-Thani, the feast is being held. Well done to those who eat and blessed be those who serve!   BH02121

In these days I am determined to journey to America, as invitations are arriving continuously from gatherings of friends and strangers alike, and from scientific, political and general assemblies in America.   AB01424

On the twenty-second night of the blessed month of Ramadan, when the people of Iran are occupied with praising the chosen ones and cursing the wicked ones, We have turned toward thee and make mention of thee.   BH00353

Henceforth your labor will greatly increase due to the multitude of visitors. From now on you must prepare yourselves so that all pilgrims and visitors may attain the utmost joy, delight, spirit and fragrance.  AB02300

"The aim of this Feast is that at every 19 days the believers of God may gather together; engage in mentioning 'Him Whom God shall manifest' - Baha'u'llah - and be reminded of the Testament and the Covenant."   ABU3071

When the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful gather together on Sundays, in the spiritual assemblies, exercise ye toward them on behalf of this imprisoned one, the utmost affection, love and kindness.  AB00351

And the place where God is mentioned and eyes are awake and hearts attracted to the divine fragrances is here. All gatherings are of the material world but praise be to God this assembly is of the divine realm   ABU2224

we are gathered together in this assemblage with utmost happiness in the neighbourhood of the Tomb of the Bab, on the slope of Mount Carmel. This Most Great Bestowal imparts most great exultation of the spirit.   ABU1029

The melody of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar cheereth the souls of the Concourse on High, and the reciting within it of the verses of His divine unity bringeth joy and gladness to the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Glory.  AB03645

Sing and warble the sweetest melodies in the elevated chambers, for the Beauty of the Concealed One hath appeared in this Revelation, and the Sun of the Unseen hath shone forth from the horizon of ancient glory.   BH01459

Thou hadst written concerning the convention which thou art going to establish in Canada in the months of September and October. This is highly advisable and I pray God that thou mayest be confirmed and assisted.  AB08702

We on this Mount Carmel, in the vicinity of the Most Exalted Shrine, are occupied with melodies, are occupied with remembrance of God, and are occupied with supplication and entreaty while all people are shaken.   ABU1736

Therefore the poetic faculty should become a fountain spring of pure meanings, and this flowing water should continuously stream and flow forth from it, so that it may be chanted in gatherings of the love of God   AB11756

When ye gather in the spiritual assembly and commemorate God, by His Greatest Name, the Divine, verily 'Abdu'l-Baha associates with ye in spirit and prays to God to grant your prayers, through His eternal Grace.   AB02445

This meeting cannot be compared to other meetings. This is the encounter of illumined hearts. This meeting is solely through divine power and heavenly glad-tidings. This is a meeting of the people of the Kingdom.  ABU2317


The meeting of worship that thou didst establish will undoubtedly bring important results. It will become the cause of promotion of the Cause of God and the motive of firmness and steadfastness, unity and concord   AB02985

We hear that thou hast in mind to embellish thy house from time to time with a meeting of Baha'is, where some among them will engage in glorifying the All-Glorious Lord and expounding the teachings of Baha'u'llah.  AB10839

The believers of God must invite the people to the Feast of the love of God. In the Baha'i feasts the expression of moral sentiments must become very strong and overpouring and the table of divine life be spread.   ABU2896

Although outwardly I was not present in that festive scene yet with my heart and spirit I was the confident and associate of the merry-makers and in gladness and delight I was a partner with the steadfast friends.  AB10977

Night and day, the supplications, lamentations, contrition and restlessness - the evening and morning prayers of this servant - are that the All-Merciful Lord may make the friends in Khurasan joyful and successful   AB11728

And concerning what you wrote about God's loved ones in that land, that they gather on Fridays engaged in the remembrance of God - would that I had a share in what they have attained of God's remembrance and praise!  BH04734

In this divine gathering and heavenly assembly... especially at the Holy Threshold which is the circling-place of the Supreme Concourse and the Most Remote Sanctuary of the angels drawn nigh to the Lord of Grandeur   AB06516

"In Germany, the nationalistic slogans and patriotic military marches are heard from one direction, and from another, talks given in the Baha'i gatherings and the voices of prayer and supplication to God are heard."  ABU1991

The program of the Naw-Ruz festival was received and caused utmost joy. Praise be to God that white and colored, like unto the face and the hair of the Beloved of the Worlds, gathered together in utmost love and joy  AB08182

We have named this blessed night the Night of Holiness, and it has been ordained that all dervishes should pass this blessed night and its morning in utmost joy and delight, occupied in remembrance of their Beloved.   BH02794

You had written about Reverend Dr. Leon Harvey of the Unitarian Church. You must show this person the utmost respect, for he has made the effort to invite you to his church so that you may hold Baha'i meetings there   AB04009

From every part of the Mountain the symphony of 'Ya Baha-El-Abha' will be raised and before the daybreaks the soul-entrancing music accompanied by melodious voices will be uplifted toward the Throne of the Almighty.   ABU1109

Your meetings and assemblies must be in the utmost state of spirituality, and those who are present in the greatest of enkindlement, so that their breaths may penetrate through the arteries and veins of the country.   AB03463

I would go to three public gatherings each day and give detailed talks, and at other times there were many visitors and questioners. Even at night, in extreme cold, coughing with fever, I would go to a great gathering  AB02623

My purpose in this journey is not pleasure-seeking, comfort of heart and ease of soul. Rather, my ultimate desire is to bear hardship and difficulty in the path of God so that I may succeed in rendering some service.   AB02422

In your previous letter, spiritual friend, you mentioned the feast gathering and attendance thereat, as well as the presence of the distinguished orator, namely His Honor Sheikh Abbas, may God the Most High assist him.  BH01300

Praise God that you are present in the gathering of divine confirmation and engaged in the study of teaching...Know the value of that gathering...you are present in that spiritual gathering and divine assembly of youth  AB02944

Regarding the meetings, you had written that they are being held with perfect wisdom and do not exceed the number of the Greatest Name. This matter 'Abdu'l-Baha has explicitly mentioned in His letters for a long time.   AB00313

The houses of Mrs. . . and Mrs. . . have become the place of reading the divine verses and the nests of the nightingales of the heavenly orchard. A sweet fragrance hath reached the spirit and soul from those assemblies.  AB00756

truly all these gatherings are of utmost importance, whether gatherings of men or gatherings of women, and 'Abdu'l-Baha is pleased with all of them and prays for them and seeks divine confirmation and success for them.   AB00638

O Pure God! Make this assemblage a light unto the world and this gathering a rose garden and flower bed. Make its meeting place a Garden of Paradise and its dawning-place the dayspring of the lights of the All-Merciful.  AB01147

on the day of meeting attained the honor of presence before His Supreme Holiness and in the Most Holy Court achieved the blessing of hearing words from the purified mouth and receiving discourse from the Ancient Beauty   AB02810

It is an excellent table for we have assembled here through the love of Baha'u'llah. Tonight I am exceedingly happy to be with you. You must be very happy and in a prayerful attitude for no better meeting could be held.  ABU2735

How spiritual it was, with flowers on our heads, chanting prayers as we walked from the Garden of Ridvan toward the Mansion. How wonderful it was. May God requite them for how the Covenant-breakers disrupted everything.  ABU1912

In the days when I was in Stuttgart thou wert indeed a highly fragrant flower. In truth, that house was a flower-filled rose-garden from which all the sweet perfumes of the gardens of the Kingdom of God could be inhaled.  AB12583

The meeting which thou hast formed and therein assembled the faithful (or believers) together and engaged with them in the commemoration of God, caused the Supreme Concourse to praise and the angels of heaven to applaud.  AB08826

Spend thou continually thy time in the concentration of thought towards God; compose and attune the Divine Mysteries in order that the hearts may be quickened and become the cause of the joy and happiness of the hearers.  AB09415

All the divine friends gathered at the Sacred Threshold and engaged in praising and glorifying the Lord of Creation. They expressed joy and delight, partook of the pure cup of tea, and sought confirmations on thy behalf.  AB09446

"when the righteous assemble therein, when prayers are offered to the Kingdom of divine mysteries and the voice of glorification is raised to the Supreme Lord" "The people shall hasten to worship in that heavenly Temple"  AB02812

Arrange, on behalf of Abdul-Baha, a gathering of utmost spirituality in memory of that soul who has ascended unto God, and invite all the loved ones of God, and recite this prayer with complete humility and supplication.  AB05561

O luminous assembly of the land of ?ad! For some time, day by day, capacity was increasing until this regular assembly was organized and blessed souls were appointed. In a short time, praiseworthy results became evident.   AB03922

The traces of the pen which were cast upon the page from a tender and gentle heart did truly open the gate of reunion and brought to remembrance the days of that beloved one's presence, and in one respect were a harbinger.  BH00056

Now it is necessary that you encourage and urge that the teaching gathering for women be multiplied, and there is no doubt that this first gathering that has been formed will be the cause of establishing great gatherings.   AB04074

You are united, in agreement, affiliated and harmonious. Praise be to God, your nostrils are perfumed with the sanctified fragrance of essential unity and your faces are illumined by the radiant beam from the Sun of Truth.  AB01741

I am very happy to see you all gathered here, and I hope that the fragrances of this meeting will reach the nostrils of the believers all over the world and make them glad. Such meetings have an effect upon all the people.  ABU2523

Each of the meetings ye have organized, wherein ye feel heavenly emotions and comprehend realities and significances, is like unto the firmament, and those souls are as resplendent stars shining with the light of guidance.   AB02568

When a meeting is organized...the Supreme Concourse will photograph that gathering and that meeting will become the image and the likeness of the Kingdom of Abha. Strive ye by all means so that your meetings become as such.  AB12314

Consider what blessed days and holy times these are - with heartfelt, intimate friends, all of us in this divine gathering thinking of you, mentioning you, remembering you, awaiting divine confirmations and heavenly grace.   AB02084

Praise be to God, you observed what effect the spiritual gathering had at the home of Mirza Aristu, how it was confirmed and assisted, and what a celebration and joy was arranged. You will see many such days - be confident.   AB01005

"Now how often in one gathering do Turk and Tajik and Persian and American and European and African come together, all in perfect unity and oneness and affection and freedom, raising songs of praise to the Kingdom of Beauty."  AB00932

Through the blessing of this celebration, the light of guidance cast a new flame... numerous celebrations, and in each celebration the fire of the love of God will cast a new flame and great results will be achieved therefrom  AB12631

With the utmost joy and fragrance didst thou arrive at the blessed, luminous Shrine, where thou didst inhale the sweet fragrances from the rose-garden of the All-Merciful and attain to the ultimate hopes and spiritual desires.  AB08754

Every meeting (in the Cause) whose formation is permitted and sanctioned by Abdul-Baha is accepted and favored by God, otherwise, it produces no result and bears no fruit, nay rather, it gives rise to the distraction of minds.  AB01884

The Nineteen Day Feast was inaugurated by the Bab and ratified by Baha'u'llah, in His holy book, the Akdas, so that people may gather together and outwardly show fellowship and love, that the divine mysteries may be disclosed.  ABU0702

Undoubtedly whenever two or three souls gather together in the name of His Holiness Baha'u'llah and are firm in the Covenant, these souls will become confirmed and be conducive in leading others toward the Most Great Guidance.  AB10496

Verily, they have gathered together in an assemblage of praise of Thy name, the Compassionate, the Merciful, recalling the sacred Covenant, united upon the right course, and strengthened with the confirmations of a new Spirit.   AB02634

Where else would such a spiritual gathering as this have occurred where divine verses are recited? Praise be to God, the loved ones of God are in utmost joy and gladness near the Holy Shrine, occupied with the remembrance of God  ABU0856

"O God! Assist Thou the well-favored to associate in harmonious assemblages held in Thy remembrance and Thy praise, and aid the steadfast to celebrate in holy gatherings convened for the love of Thee and for allegiance to Thee."  AB04229

How excellent are these discussions, how much they bring joy to a person, they give exhilaration to a person. Every conversation, when it goes on too long, brings weariness to a person except conversation about the Divine Cause   ABU2443

If it is possible make preparation from now for a meeting of the great people so that when they arrive they may speak at the meeting of the Cause of God. Likewise inform the Baha'is to hold a meeting that they may speak to them.  AB06747

Although you are not physically present in the spiritual gathering and are not seated in the divine assembly, I swear by the Greatest Name that all the friends shine like the full moon in the inner chamber of the heart and soul.   AB04364

How good it is that souls from different religions gather in one Assembly, being engaged in perusing the Words of God, spreading the Heavenly Teachings and living in accord with the teachings and exhortations of the Supreme Lord.  AB12209

At the threshold of the One Beloved I offered thanks that the spiritual gathering has become illumined, and that assembly has attained spiritual passion and ecstasy, and has been stirred by the breeze from the divine rose garden.   AB02788

and to make this assembly of yours a source for the manifestation of signs of divine unity and the diffusion of holy fragrances to every distant region, so that seekers may hasten to this bountiful assembly from every deep valley   AB02811

The gathering you have arranged, since it is a gathering for the remembrance of God and the recitation of verses and prayers, will hopefully lead to souls being taught. Therefore this gathering is a gathering of joy and gladness.   AB05075

praise be to God that through divine assistance and favor you have traversed distant stages, crossed deserts, and reached the intended destination. No greater bounty can be conceived than attaining the presence at that Threshold.   AB02390

Though great joy was felt from the glad tidings of the steadfastness, firmness, spirituality and illumination of the friends and from the arrangements for establishing holy meetings and gatherings and the chanting of divine verses  AB01113

spiritual meetings must be founded upon the teaching of the Cause of God. In that meeting the maidservants of the Merciful must present proofs and evidences, and speak of the signs and traces of the appearance of the Beauty of ABHA  AB00908

"All of these are known and understood by 'Abdu'l-Baha. Therefore, with utmost supplication and imploration, He begs from the threshold of the Ancient Lord that He may immerse the friends in the city of Ishq in the ocean of favors"  AB05131

Thus, hearken unto the melodies of the birds of holiness, in the garden of fellowship, upon the branches of purity; to the murmuring of its waters, the rustling of the trees, the blowing of its breezes and the cooing of its doves.   AB03888

Such a gathering is fundamentally spiritual, sincere and most important. But we must arise in the accomplishment of its purposes, for our attention is directed toward the heavenly Kingdom unto which we must render faithful service.  ABU0158

Those assemblies are the emblems of the Supreme Concourse and the prototypes of the congregations of the spirits in the Kingdom of ABHA. Avail yourselves of the opportunities of this time, neither let the occasion slip by unheeded.  AB04224

The news of the spiritual feast and heavenly banquet became the cause of joy and gladness to the souls of the All-Merciful... yet the holy and musk-laden breezes were wafting and the gathering of fellowship was radiant with light.   AB03703

The 19 days Feast was the Lord's Supper and its results are eternalized. Although physically Abdul Baha was far away but he was present in that meeting with heart and soul. Truly I say it was a glorious feast, perfect in every way.  AB02528

During the days of Ridvan you arranged a celebration and prepared a feast whose wondrous melody reached the Concourse on High and whose loving song joined the realm above, becoming the cause of joy and delight to the spiritual ones.  AB02289

And that on the Day of the Covenant, each one may bear a chalice and become wrapt in the ecstasy of joy and gladness, may be filled with blissful rapture, and raise such melody that shall bewilder the minds and baffle the intellects.  AB02357

Cause the increase of the longing of all present in the meetings of the maid-servants of the Merciful One and bring joy and happiness to the handmaidens of God; so that thou mayest diffuse the fragrances and chant the manifest verses  AB04607

The letter you have written was considered. It caused abundant spirit and fragrance. It was not a letter, it was a rose-garden. The fragrances of the flowers of significances were exhaling from that garden and perfumed the nostrils.   AB04378

Great joy and fragrance indeed predominated in that gathering. Indeed, all those present were sincere and deeply impressed and even the Governor and the Judge were fully possessed with joy and fragrance! What a wonderful night it was!  ABU3188

Mention was made of thee in this gathering and a sweet fragrance wafted to the nostrils of the spiritual ones. The assembly became perfumed, hearts were illumined, breasts were expanded with the bounty of joy, and faces became radiant.  AB06875

In that port the loving friends arranged a gathering of fellowship and adorned an assembly with holy fragrances. Day and night they engaged in the recitation of verses and chanted praises and attributes with the most wondrous melodies.   AB04942

That respected gathering and honored and revered assembly should make his home and nest into a constellation of luminous stars in conjunction...a designated and known place is necessary for this spiritual gathering and luminous assembly  AB08342

Blessed is the land wherein the loved ones of God gather together, engaging in His remembrance. How blessed are those souls who gather in the assembly of God's loved ones and engage in His remembrance with the utmost joy and attraction.   BH03250

This has been adorned with the ornament of acceptance and it was commanded that they should engage in feasting and Jinab-i-Amin in service...and to hold several feasts with tea and other things on behalf of the aforementioned loved ones.  BH02040

Regarding what you wrote about establishing a pilgrim house in Tehran, this is a very appropriate idea. I hope it will be arranged with the utmost order. Register the deed of the pilgrim house in the name of all, just as you had written.  AB01061

play and sing out the holy words of God with wondrous tones in the gatherings of the friends, that the listener may be freed from chains of care and sorrow, and his soul may leap for joy and humble itself in prayer to the realm of Glory.   AB06303

"It is very important to establish the Mashrekol-azkar of God, so that the friends may gather and become engaged in the commemoration of God. This has great importance. The confirmations of God will arrive, as to the friends in Ishkabad."  ABU1035

I hope that these gatherings may be productive of great results, and there is no greater result than the love of God. There is no greater result than bonds of service in the divine Kingdom and attainment to the good pleasure of the Lord.   ABU0394

The heart was gladdened by the glad tidings of the continuous gatherings of the friends, the assemblies of Bishruyih and Umm al-Qura, the meetings of remembrance and praise, and the established meetings of the handmaidens of the Merciful.  AB07998

As to what you mentioned regarding the friends of God being engaged every Friday in the recitation of verses and the remembrance of God, by the life of God, they have a station among the stations in the Book of God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH00345

Let them witness the lights of reunion and observe the verses of beauty, for that Beloved of the Lord will shine forth from the unseen realm upon creation and bestow endless bounties. The yearning ones are in tumult and the lovers embrace.  AB01739

During the chanting of prayers and the recitation of verses, the gathering must maintain complete stillness, silence and composure. Greetings and glorification upon entering during the recitation of verses should be uttered in one's heart.  AB11225

Praised be God, the women believers have organized meetings where they will learn how to teach the Faith, will spread the sweet savours of the Teachings and make plans for training the children. This gathering must be completely spiritual.   AB03742

The gathering of fellowship, illumined by the lights of confirmation from the Abha Kingdom, is the envy of the highest paradise, and the sanctified assembly, through the outpouring of the Supreme Realm, is coveted by the Garden of Delight.   AB04873

The letter you wrote from Maraghih arrived and a fresh fragrance wafted, for it indicated the spirituality of the divine friends in that spiritual clime - namely, that they adorn the gathering of guidance, find repose in the holy fragrances  AB07930

Gather the handmaidens of the Merciful in the meeting of fellowship, and adorn the gathering with praise and glorification of the Intended Lord. With a sweet melody, recite odes and praises of the Lord of Bounty and the Giver of existence.   AB02743

Spiritual gatherings are organized and teaching meetings arranged. The heart's desire of all the friends and handmaidens of the Merciful is the dawning of lights, appearance of mysteries, manifestation of signs and enlightenment of vision.   AB00436

May the meadows and fields of the hearts of lovers ever be illumined by the Sun of the Beauty of the Beloved, and may the pools in the lands of yearning souls ever overflow and be immersed in the Kawthar of the ruby-red lips of the Beloved.   BH02611

Tomorrow, Friday, specifically on your behalf, a prayer of visitation will be chanted with all the friends in the Holy Shrine. And since the gathering will be large and all will be representing you, it will count as a hundred visits for you.  AB03165

You had written concerning the meetings held at Mrs. Goodall's home. These will undoubtedly produce great results and manifest important effects, and these will promote love and unity amongst men and will bring about the oneness of mankind.   AB02097

O nightingale in the garden of divine unity! Blessed art thou for having warbled in the meadows of mystic knowledge with the most wondrous melodies, and for having sung in the groves of the Covenant with the most beautiful tunes and rhythms.  AB09648

Therefore, gather My loved ones in remembrance of Me, then make mention to them of that which hath been sent down from the direction of My Throne, that they may soar in the atmosphere of My nearness and ascend unto the heaven of My grandeur.   BH04479

You have made your nest in the garden of divine providence on the branches of the tree of love and divine bounty, and you are engaged in the utmost harmony and oneness chanting the melodies of the remembrance and praise of the Lord of Names.   AB07404

So arrange the feast of intimacy and prepare the celebration of the manifestation of the outpourings of the Holy Spirit... Raise such rapture that from the sweet fragrances of your gatherings the nostrils of this yearning one become perfumed   AB01354

O my illumined friends! In this darksome night a call reached me from the hidden Caller, a summons saying: O thou eager one! The time has come to make mention of the people of concord and to remember the friends of the luminary of the worlds.  AB04163

The bird of the gardens of certitude and dove of the realm of mystic knowledge must, through the instruction of the All-Powerful and the inspiration of the Abha Kingdom, arrange the Psalms of the House of David in the gathering of the friends   AB04190

He was always mindful of the friends and, with tear-filled eyes and burning heart, beseeched confirmations for the loved ones of the Most Merciful. Surely this humility and supplication was accepted at the threshold of the Self-Sufficient Lord.  AB01986

"The doors of the Kingdom are opened. The divine Glad-tidings are uninterrupted and the merciful outpourings are descending. The cup of the Wine of the Love of God is passing round and the melody of the birds of the Paradise of Abha is raised."  AB00466

Strive thou in Buffalo (N.Y.) so that perfect and lasting spiritual assemblies may be established and the souls be trained and progress spiritually. If thou art seeking a heavenly palace, make thy house the gathering-place of the friends of God.  AB01411

The founding of these spiritual meetings is purely for the purpose of teaching; but, as the Mashreq'Ul Azkar is not yet founded, therefore in the spiritual meetings verses are chanted, supplications and communes offered and discourses delivered.  AB02223

Holding your meetings when it is the time of prayer in other churches is not advisable; it would lead to alienation, since the Baha'i children who have their own Sunday school would be deprived of it if they tried to attend other Sunday schools.  AB07530

we were gathered together like a flock of birds, and that melodious bird would chant the Tablets and verses with the most wondrous melodies, and we would all move toward the Holy Shrine in complete humility and supplication, lowly and submissive   AB05206

The Most Exalted Leaf of Paradise, upon her be all Glory, is surely like a boundless ocean, surging and overflowing with the mention of the Beauty of the All-Merciful in the holy gatherings and intimate assemblies of the handmaids of the Merciful.   AB02982

According to the arrangement brought to (My) notice, you have established an organization and wished to have a congregation that you may engage yourselves in the service of the Word of GOD and undertake the work of diffusing the fragrances of GOD.   AB01792

How joyful it is to see such a meeting as this, for it is in truth a gathering together of 'heavenly men'. We are all united in one Divine purpose, no material motive is ours, and our dearest wish is to spread the Love of God throughout the world!   ABU0613

Although you are now absent from Stuttgart, you are still present with heart and soul in the luminous gatherings. This I hope. Praise be to God that it is the wish of the friends to establish a heavenly center and a luminous gathering in this city.  AB12283

they must consider that the heart and soul of Abdul Baha are present there, and the lights of unity and harmony must shine to such an extent that the house will be full of light and those who are there will feel that really Abdul Baha is present...  AB09760

Certainly a few of the friends of God must gather at times like the Pleiades stars in the exalted heaven and engage in teaching and learning. This is a wondrous bounty. Persistence and continuity is necessary. Blessed are those who gather together.   AB03049

Regarding the Feast celebration thou didst write about - how blessed are the friends who gathered in that spiritual assembly with perfect wisdom and celebrated with joy and gladness on that festive day. 'Abdu'l-Baha was also gladdened by their joy.   AB00368

The arrangements for gatherings and meetings which you had organized were praised in writing and encouraged - indeed, divine confirmations were sought for them. Therefore they will suffer no weakness or decline, but rather will become more organized   AB02835

The feast gathering that was formed, and the divine assembly that engaged in chanting and arose in thanksgiving to the Glorious Lord, that gathering attained the praise of the Supreme Concourse. It was a merciful assembly, it was a heavenly assembly.  AB00491

When they hear the sound of poems [chanting] from above, they say these people must be happy because they are free from military service and have no worries, and that is why they are celebrating. They don't realize that this is remembrance [of God].   ABU2712

This is an assembly full of spirituality. Those who are present have turned their hearts towards God. They are looking and longing for glad tidings. We have gathered here by the power of the Spirit, therefore our hearts are stirred with thanksgiving.   ABU1446

In the feast of the love of God, so gladden the cup of mystic knowledge and cause the vessel of intimate communion and supplication to weep, that in this Baha'i celebration, amidst the circle of divine lovers, cries of spiritual intoxication may arise  AB08934

You wrote that you went to Poona and were present in the gathering of the friends and were blessed to inhale the holy fragrances and found utmost joy in meeting one another... Every week they arrange a spiritual gathering and engage in guiding souls.   AB05083

This heavenly gathering will grow day by day, the intoxicated friends will increase in rapture and ecstasy, will break into songs and harmonies, and will raise such a melody as will reach the Supreme Concourse and rejoice and exhilarate the Holy Ones.  AB04446

Let your spiritual assembly be so adorned with the mention of God and so resplendent with the praise of the Beloved of the world that it shall become a true meeting place of the Covenant, a gathering that reflects the gifts of the Luminary of mankind.  AB02872

In that meeting Divine Susceptibilities were experienced and the Confirmations of the Kingdom witnessed. The mention of that congregation will be handed down to posterity and its praise will be on the lips of men throughout the future ages and cycles.  AB01885

This is a plain meal, uniform and the same to all. Therefore the beloved of God must think of this day as very blessed, and applaud it and acclaim it. They must bring it to a close in utter happiness, and gather together in a spirit of boundless love.  ABU0907

This prisoner's desire is that the friends arrange feasts of love and prepare celebrations of happiness, that they may experience perfect gladness through divine bounty and, through the grace of the Forgiving Lord, create gatherings of joy and delight.  AB01210

So kindle the spiritual gathering in that region that the sound of "God is Most Great" and "There is no God but God" may reach the assemblies of the Concourse on High and its song of divine unity may arrive at the ears of the people of the Abha Kingdom.  AB02412

Thou hadst written about the elaborate festivities that were arranged with the utmost joy and delight during the days of Ridvan. This was not merely a festival - it was a heavenly feast and a divine gathering. It was luminous and caused the utmost joy.   AB03403

"What could be better than this - that like the flowers of divine realities and meanings, they should mingle with each other in the utmost freshness, delicacy and sweetness in the divine garden, sitting and rising together and creating joy and delight"   AB01981

From what I have heard, you two blessed souls have arranged a gathering in Fellbach where a number of friends come together. Since in that gathering you turn to the divine Kingdom, surely the rays of divine confirmations are the candle of that gathering  AB12585

The servants and the maid servants are always in the Presence and they are spiritually associating with each other. The essential thing is the ideal communication of the hearts. Praise be to God that our hearts and spirits are connected with each other.  ABU1403

It must definitely be accomplished at this year's Convention. The Tarbiyat School received assistance from the American friends. Surely this matter is under your consideration. If assistance could be arranged through the Convention, it would be very good.  AB03343

Your nest is a dwelling place of teaching and an abode of heavenly birds. Nay, rather, it is a garden of paradise and a meadow of the All-Merciful. The thankful birds wing their flight to those rose-gardens of joy, hear the melody of the Supreme Concourse  AB12324

Verily, the maid-servant of God, the assured leaf Mrs. Brittingham, hath presented herself in the Sacred Spot and is blessed by the pure and holy dust, inhaled the fragrances of God from the meadow of Akka and remembered thee in the presence of Abdul-Baha.  AB08372

The friends of the Spiritual Meeting are indeed manifesting efforts in the Cause of God. Soon the unseen strength of heaven will become evident, and such zeal and earnestness will become manifest in that country that it will affect all parts of the world.   AB01870

That clime is a paradise of delight, and that country is illumined and perfumed by the breeze from the rose garden of the Supreme Concourse. That soil is pure and those borders and regions are radiant, for it is the native place of the Sun of the horizons.   AB03933

How excellent it was that the friends gathered for Khudabakhsh's funeral procession, for the presence or absence of strangers is equal, since they are in truth neither grieved nor remorseful at each other's funerals, nor do they sincerely seek forgiveness.   AB02562

Spiritual gatherings today are divine trumpets, for they breathe the breath of life. However, wisdom does not require large crowds in a single gathering--they should be multiple, so that the divine teachings may be promoted with utmost dignity and composure.  AB02539

they pitched the pavilion near the Holy Shrine and Blessed Tomb, and in perfect joy and fragrance the feast of happiness was arranged. All the divine friends, from among the emigrants, residents and travelers, were all present with radiant and joyful faces   AB02203

Praise be to God that for several days you were present in the Holy Land, the homeland of the Prophets, in the utmost joy and fragrance, and with an attracted soul, a pure breath, an illumined heart and a spiritual mind you joined with the friends in harmony  AB07942

the friends of God arranged a heavenly feast and celebrated the dawning of the Morn of Guidance. How much this is a cause of joy - they engaged in the mention of God, chanted verses of unity, and with the melody of the divine Kingdom praised the Sun of Truth.  AB04120

The feast (supper) [every nineteen days] is very acceptable and will finally produce good results. The beloved and the maid-servants of the Merciful must inaugurate the feast in such wise as to resurrect the feast of the ancients--namely, the "lord's supper."   AB00587

These travelers over mountains and deserts and these wanderers over land and sea have built their nests and shelters for a few days in the home of this beloved maid-servant of Thine! We were engaged in singing Thy praises and chanted the songs of Thy Kingdom.  AB09097

Such gatherings are heavenly, divine, lordly and merciful. If they attain permanence and steadfastness, they become centers for spiritual inspirations and sources of divine effects. They cause the progress of the human world and promote the divine teachings.   AB00889

"Physical meeting is not, after all, of great importance. The essential meeting is the spiritual meeting. Heart and Spirit must meet, and praise be to God, the Heart and the Spirit do meet. In the utmost of connection are they. In the utmost of love are they."   ABU0337

The meetings of the friends are like unto the delightful rose-gardens in which you find variegated flowers adding to each other's charm. It is evident that when the intellectual forces of minds are joined with another the result will be correspondingly greater.   ABU1128

The funeral service which...ye arranged and wherein ye engaged in the remembrance of God will be the cause of awakening and alerting the people, for during a public meeting for the departed man hearkeneth to the verses of God and to the prayers offered unto Him   AB04333

And if you wish to organize consultative and teaching gatherings, the membership of steadfast, assured, and devoted women who possess manly qualities, who are distinguished by perfection, who are adorned with the raiment of excellence and wisdom, is permissible.   AB03540

Every time I them to mind and remember their faces, contemplation becometh the garden of paradise, the rose-garden of mysteries, the niche of lights, and with lowliness and fervour I supplicate unto the Abha Kingdom and ask on their behalf for the hidden bounties.  AB03954

Today we are gathered with all the friends in the Garden of Ridvan, engaged in the mention of the All-Merciful and finding intimacy, and moment by moment we find joy and delight in remembering the divine friends and mentioning the beloved ones of the All-Merciful.  AB02370

You wrote about the gathering of the loved ones, that it was characterized by the utmost joy and fragrance. This is indeed so, for in the spiritual gatherings, the Blessed Beauty is the witness of the assembly. Surely the utmost joy and fragrance must be attained.  AB04561

At every festival compose a new ode or eloquent poem in praise and glorification of the Eternal Living One, the Eternal Beauty, the Most Great Name (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) and chant them in gatherings of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful.  AB11727

in reality we are gathered in one assembly and together in one home. We are in utmost unity and are intimate companions in the assemblage. One hundred thousand mountains, deserts, valleys, or seas will not prevent this fellowship nor would they hinder this harmony.   AB01079

that You make this gathering abundant with the manifestation of the signs of Your mercy, and this assembly healing for the hearts of the believers through the appearance of the signs of Your oneness, and make this meeting for enkindlement with the fire of Your love   AB00854

This Convention will expand in the future and will surpass all conventions of the world, for it is a heavenly Convention, it is divine, its foundation is love and kindness and the promotion of the oneness of the human world and non-interference in political affairs.   AB07504

Music is regarded as a praiseworthy science at the Threshold of the Almighty, so that thou mayest chant verses at large gatherings and congregations in a most wondrous melody and raise such hymns of praise at the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to enrapture the Concourse on High.   AB06829

For two days we have been spending our time in utmost joy and fragrance with the honored and near handmaiden of God Mrs. Cooper at Mr. Paul's home, engaged in mentioning the Ancient Beauty and speaking of the divine Kingdom with a gathering of the people of this city.  AB09035

Therefore, as much as you can, spread joy and delight, cast frankincense and ambergris upon the censer, diffuse holy fragrances, arrange intimate gatherings, associate with the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, scatter musk and perfume, and pour forth honey and sugar.   AB06195

It is through the divine power and through the potency of the Word of God that we are assembled here with such gladness and delight. We are turned towards the Abha Kingdom and like the plants of the flower garden we are swayed by the breezes of His kindness and favor.  ABU1919

Be thou a lamp-kindler in the gathering of the friends of God, and a moth consumed by the flame circling round the divine lamp. In the presence of spiritual ones, be thou a tongue mentioning the All-Merciful, and in the luminous assembly become a ray of divine knowledge  AB07639

The wine and the glass have become clear and pure, gleaming like a lamp and its light, as they circulated in the gathering of the sincere ones, the assembly of them that believe in divine unity, and the concourse of those who are attracted and steadfast in the Covenant.  AB03554

They adorn gatherings and engage in remembrance of the Incomparable Lord, rest in the shade of the blessed tree, occupy themselves with praise of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, become intimate with servitude at the Holy Threshold, recite Tablets and chant prayers.  AB12157

"It is morning, and a hundred thousand troubles, difficulties, matters, hardships and tribulations lie before me that must be attended to and resolved by my own self. Yet I have put all these aside and am occupied with thoughts of thee and engaged in penning this letter."  AB12519

Whensoever a company of people shall gather in a meeting place, shall engage in glorifying God, and shall speak with one another of the mysteries of God, beyond any doubt the breathings of the Holy Spirit will blow gently over them, and each shall receive a share thereof.  AB11372

O Handmaid of God, when you are united in a spiritual gathering and celebrate the remembrance of God by His Most Glorious Name, the Divine One, truly then 'Abdu'l-Baha is present and communes with you in spirit and asks God to grant your prayers through His eternal grace.  AB12422

Although nothing in the world of existence can equal being in His presence at the Threshold, nevertheless my heart yearns to be present in that gathering, namely the feasts, especially that assembly from which wafts the fragrance of the love of the Desired One of all worlds  BH03970

But these stones, in My Eyes, are greater than gold or silver the people will bring. And in that time the people will weep and cry, and will say: 'What a great time was that when Abul Kasim used to serve in this Garden!' And they will beg to be permitted to visit this Place.  BHU0014

When the disciples partook of these bounties of Christ, they became filled with the love of Christ and hastened to all corners of the world, raising the call of the Kingdom of God. From His infinite grace, I hope that assembly will also partake of these bounties and favors.   AB00907

Such gatherings are held solely through divine grace and favor, and, therefore, we must be thankful for them. With deep devotion and longing, each of us has come from some distant land and has no purpose except the good pleasure of God. It is a feast of love and fellowship.   ABU1817

whenever ye come together in the assemblage of union and engage in the commemoration of God and beseech God and offer prayers unto God, be thou assured, the Spirit of Confirmation penetrates throughout such an assemblage, and the lights of Favors shine therein from thy Lord.   AB01086

In the world of existence there is no blessed gathering more precious than an assembly where white and black come together in the utmost spiritual love and heartfelt fellowship. When such gatherings are formed with perfect unity, the angels of the Kingdom of Abha offer praise  AB03102

When the gathering of Baha'is is organized and the yearning lovers of the Divine Beauty come together like the Pleiades constellation in their sphere and arrange a meeting, that is the reflection of the Abha Kingdom and the radiance of the fellowship of the Supreme Concourse.  AB01611

This scattered gathering, each from a different land and region and border and frontier - one eastern, another western, one southern, another northern - just as Thou hast gathered these helpless ones in the earthly kingdom at the noblest spot on earth after the exalted Shrines  AB01445

The divine candle is lit and the assemblage of the spiritual is adorned and resplendent even as a garden in fresh bloom. The sacred fragrances are scattered everywhere and the soul-reviving breezes wafting from the meadows of the All-Glorious Kingdom bestow gladness unalloyed.  AB04557

Verily, I pray God to make thy home a center for the radiation of light and the glowing of His love in the hearts of His people. Know that in every home when God is praised and prayed to, and His Kingdom proclaimed, that home is a garden of God and a paradise of His happiness.   AB05435

Every gathering that is adorned with the remembrance of the Most Glorious Beauty and is formed for the purpose of listening to the words of God - that gathering is a rose-garden of the Kingdom and that assemblage is confirmed by the holy fragrances from the realm of the Divine.   AB07007

In every dispensation, when the Sun of Truth has shone forth from the Dayspring of Oneness, through its loving-kindness a spiritual gathering has been established in every land, so that, turning to God, they might engage in spiritual matters and make manifest divine inspirations.  AB02608

The friends of God have held a heavenly feast and celebrated the anniversary of the appearance of the Dawn of Guidance, the Bab... You became engaged in the commemoration of God, sang the verses of singleness and praised the Sun of Reality with the anthem of the merciful Kingdom.  AB08459

Such gatherings are only possible through the divine bounties and favors. Otherwise, how could the two of us ever hope to meet? A gathering such as this, in such a location, at a time when no one draws a breath of comfort, is not possible unless decreed through God's benevolence.   ABU2319

You must associate together in love. Whenever you meet let your conversation be heavenly in character. Speak of reality. Speak of the history of the prophets and of the reality of the religions of God. Speak of the history of Baha'o'llah and of the proof of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1485

"Such gatherings as this have no equal or likeness in the world of mankind, where people are drawn together by physical motives or in furtherance of material interests, for this meeting is a prototype of that inner and complete spiritual association in the eternal world of being."  ABU0410

Mirza Assadu'llah said to the Master that we wished to take dinner in the name of the Council Board of Chicago. ABDUL-BAHA said: Not only in remembrance of the Council Board but also of all the believers. And when you go to visit the Holy Tomb you must remember all the believers.   ABU1011

Nighttime afforded these ministers peace of mind, as they would be undisturbed by the chattering and clamouring of the people, along with other such noise. As a result, they would come together at a certain place every night and hold gatherings characterized by intimate fellowship.  ABU3691

This prayer is to be recited before meals, and as for the prayer after meals, say: My Lord and my Hope! Thanks be to Thee for these bounties, and praise be to Thee for these tables and blessings. Lord! Cause us to ascend to Thy Kingdom and seat us at the tables of Thy divine realm.  AB05402

O Zein, make mention of My loved ones in that place on My behalf, then greet them warmly. Blessed are they, for their names have been mentioned in most Tablets from the presence of the All-Knowing, the Wise. Make mention of their elderly and their young, then their males and females  BH01755

By the Majesty of My Lord, verily your gathering in the Meeting of Oneness, your commemoration of God with a pure heart, and your association with a spirit, rejoicing by the Spirit of God in this Great Day, profiteth you more than all favours, and this Bounty surpasseth all wishes.   AB03829

May the Spiritual Assembly be a manifestation of the aid and bounty of God. It shall be of service in the education of orphans and the poor and perform good works. Thus it is a manifestation of God's aid and bounty and is in every respect worthy of appreciation, respect and honour.   AB00442

O God! Through the effusions of the cloud of bounty, transform this assemblage into a rose garden and meadow, that they may be delivered from waiting, witness the lights of the Sun of Truth, receive tidings from the invisible realm, and discover the mysteries of the concealed world.  AB11155

The two gatherings you organized in Philadelphia where divine loved ones were present along with beginners were very acceptable in God's Kingdom and worthy of praise. It is hoped they will yield beneficial results, meaning that such gatherings will be organized again whenever possible  AB00544

Therefore, this meeting is blessed. But if it is firmly established and become constant, it will bring forth great results and most weighty developments will be attained. Consequently, persevere ye in renewing your meetings and display utmost magnanimity in firmness and steadfastness.  AB02331

The day you invited me to your home outside New York, and we spent that day and evening in ultimate spirituality remembering God and in love and fellowship, and I spoke that night in that gathering - that day and night will never be forgotten, for it passed with utmost joy and delight.  AB12130

from the glad tidings of the love, humility, spirituality and submissiveness of the friends in Qazvin, and their gatherings during the watches of night and parts of day, their remembrance of the Lord of Mysteries, and their teaching of God's Cause, boundless joy was also made manifest.  AB09299

Concerning the holding of Baha'i meetings in thy home, it is very seasonable and they will become the cause of thy everlasting glory and the greatness of thy household forever and ever; because their wonderful results will appear in the future. They are not evident at the present time.   AB01119

You wrote that on the first and second nights of Muharram you gathered in the blessed House and passed the night with utmost joy and delight. His honor Muvaqqar is indeed engaged in service. Though 'Abdu'l-Baha was physically absent, he was present in that gathering in spirit and heart   AB00650

Concerning what was written about spending an evening at the home of Aqa Siyyid Muhammad-Baqir, upon him be the glory of God, in the company of the friends of God, engaged in the remembrance of the Beloved of the worlds - this matter was presented in the Most Holy and Most Exalted Court.  BH02753

The meeting that you organized hath attracted the divine gaze and the subject of your conversation was the divine commemoration. A ray from the Kingdom of ABHA fell upon that assemblage and that meeting was adorned, and a number of souls, supplicants to God, were gathered in that meeting.  AB03619

As to organization of other meetings for the maid-servants of the Merciful, for the spread of the fragrances of God; this is the best deed and most complete action. I ask God to strengthen thee in this matter so that you may organize many gatherings for the spread of the teachings of God.  AB03254

The honored Chief and the most righteous Sadr must assist the friends in the matter of the Tarbiyat School and other institutions. Therefore, raise thy voice in the supreme gatherings and cry out in the great assemblies: Hasten to prosperity! Hasten to success! Hasten to the greatest gift!  AB00225

A splendor from the Supper of the Lord was cast upon the table that ye have spread and the spiritual food descended. It was on this account that the souls were rejoicing and happy and the spirits of those who were present were uplifted. What a happy night that was, and what a blessed feast!  AB08077

In every spot on the face of the earth, gatherings of the loved ones are organized and arranged, and the melody of the lute and string and song is raised with "Glory be to God!" and "God is Most Great!", and the song of the Concourse on High reaches the ears of both the noble and the lowly.   AB01270

Through the bountiful grace of the Blessed Beauty, mayest thou revive the gatherings of the friends, and cause the hearts of His loved ones to be united. This, however, is on condition that at such meetings thou makest mention of naught but the soul-stirring remembrance of the Ancient Beauty  AB11943

Every Spiritual Assembly that is formed through divine favor, whose members are in the utmost sincerity and attraction to the Kingdom of God and are firm in the Covenant - 'Abdu'l-Baha has spiritual communication with them, has heartfelt connection with them, and has eternal bonds with them.  AB06162

Come ye together in gladness unalloyed, and at the beginning of the meeting, recite ye this prayer: O Thou Lord of the Kingdom! Though our bodies be gathered here together, yet our spellbound hearts are carried away by Thy love, and yet are we transported by the rays of Thy resplendent face.  AB00774

From that life-giving tune and nightingale song of faithfulness, hearts and souls will be stirred to excitement, they will arrange a spiritual feast of delight, pass around the wine of divine love, and with the most wondrous melodies and types of songs they will sing upon the branches of truth  AB03801

For two days, during which your honor was also present, by command of the Lord of the visible realm, this great and orderly gathering was manifested from the unseen into the visible world, and exalted words together with certain verses were read and recited before the faces of the loved ones.   BH02074

Blessed is He Who hath made this day a festival day that endureth forever. At the midnight hour the sun entereth the sign of Aries. The sun of creation hath dawned at the beginning of days in perfect balance. On the night when the two spheres met, a sun from the All-Hearing joined with Gemini.   BB00183

"With all joy and great happiness I send you the good news of the beginning of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in 'Ishqabad. The friends of God assembled together with great rejoicing, and carried the stones themselves, upon their backs, attracted by the love of God and for the sake of the glory of God."  AB02454

They heard the prayer that you read and it made them joyous. They thank Baha'u'llah saying, 'We thank Thee, O Baha'u'llah, that these maidservants are attracted to Thee and are turned to Thy Kingdom. They have no purpose but Thy Will; they wish for no station but that of service to Thy Cause.'   ABU1741

O ye co-workers who are supported by armies from the realm of the All-Glorious! Blessed are ye, for ye have come together in the sheltering shade of the Word of God, and have found a refuge in the cave of His Covenant; ye have brought peace to your hearts by making your home in the Abha Paradise   AB01023

Now a spiritual gathering is being formed there and the verses of unity are being chanted... The friends in America hold the Feast every nineteen days with the utmost joy and delight in their divine gatherings, and this has become the cause of the expansion of hearts and the attraction of souls.   AB04720

The letter you have written after the feast of Naw-Ruz was received and perused. It produced great joy and happiness and the shining of light was beheld. 'Abdu'l-Baha, with His heart and soul, was present at your Naw-Ruz Feast, associated and took part in your happiness, joy, and harmonious union.  AB01793

Praise be to God that all of our gatherings were divine and were in commemoration of God, and were conducive to perfect joy and gladness. My hope is that immediately after your arrival in America ye may convene such blessed and spiritual gatherings-gatherings that proclaim loudly the Love of God.   ABU1694

It is with regard to this wisdom that the nineteen day meeting, or feast is organized; that every nineteen days the friends may gather together in the same place and enjoy this feast; thus may they exercise the same spirit of love which they exercised and previously enjoyed in the spiritual world.  ABU0388

Convey special greetings from this servant to the handmaidens of the Merciful who have established meetings and are occupied with the mention of God, familiar with explanation and interpretation, and intimate with holy fragrances. Encourage and urge them that their gathering may progress day by day  AB11647

The letter you wrote on the Day of the Declaration of the Primal Point...that luminous gathering was oriented toward the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, and on such a blessed day you came together with utmost love and engaged in the remembrance of God...The memory of that gathering will endure forever  AB12267

Therefore, utmost importance must be given to the women's teaching assembly so that, through the grace, protection and support of the Most Glorious Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones), the first women's teaching assembly will be established in Tehran and spread to other regions.  AB07059

As for the assured maidservant of God Khanum-Bashi and the near maidservant of God Ruhaniyyih, wife of Aqa Abdul-Rahim, who arranged a gathering and invited the divine loved ones to engage in remembrance of the Worshipped Lord on the Day of Ascension - this deed is most meritorious and acceptable.   AB03748

They hold magnificent celebrations and supremely adorned festivals where the lute and oud play melodies of the Abha Paradise, where the overflowing cup contains the wine of the love of God, where the bright candle is the Luminary of the horizons, and where the Beauty of Abha graces their gathering.   AB02497

I have the utmost joy that in the distant West I find such an organized Bahai center, where the friends of God have assembled, associating with each other in the utmost love. This affords me great joy, and I ask God that this revered assemblage may be made the cause of illuminating the East and West.   ABU0236

"praise be to God!--have made their homes the nest and shelter of the heavenly birds, and have arranged meetings. I hope that these two meeting places will become more illumined day by day, adding to the knowledge, faith and assurance of the audience, and increasing their resolution and steadfastness."  AB02795

It behooveth thee as a man of the field to offer praise to the God of Purity, and convey Abha greetings on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha to all the handmaidens of the Merciful and say: By the Ancient Beauty that in the Illumined Shrine I am engaged in remembering you all and beseeching confirmations from God.  AB06037

Turning to Miss Alma he said: "Are you happy? Have the people of Germany the capacity to receive? Don't they hate you? Do they love you? If I were in their place I would put you out, for you are a rioter. The people objected to the disciples at the time of Christ, saying they had led the people astray."  ABU1706

They chant a wondrous melody in devotion and with a new song teach the stations of the spirit, in utmost love and supplication. Faces are illumined with the light of the love of God, and dispositions are fragrant with the sweet perfumes of the Abha Paradise, and hearts are like rose gardens and meadows.   AB00285

O Lord, my Beloved and my Purpose! These are indeed servants at the threshold of Your holiness and prostrators at the gate of Your oneness who have attended Your Mashriqu'l-Adhkar and gathering of lights, turning to You in devotion and supplicating to Your realm of oneness, praying sincerely for Your sake.  AB01380

Many may say, I can pray to God whenever I wish...why should I go where others are gathered upon a special day, at a certain hour, to unite my prayers with theirs...when many are gathered together their force is greater. Separate soldiers fighting alone and individually have not the force of a united army.  ABU0297

Furthermore, it is submitted that an indication was made in the course of a tradition that there would be cause for a meeting. Yes, thus are We longing for it, but soon our appointed time will come, God willing, from God's presence and the day of our return to God, until the believers are gathered together.  BH03813

If you knew how this heart is companion to your memory in this moment, what feelings overwhelm the heart, what waves surge in the ocean of longing like the mighty sea - surely you would drink cups of camphor from the intensity of joy and delight and raise such an uproar that East and West would take notice.  AB00515

Praise be to God that the friends in Yazd gather in meetings with the utmost steadfastness, speaking of the realm of truth, engaging in discourse, and passing their time in fellowship and harmony. If these gatherings continue, they will eventually blaze forth in such wise as to influence both East and West.  AB09685

Do not discuss in the spiritual gathering and assembly of the friends about the late Mirza Muharram and his claims and debts. Have such discussions outside, for in the gathering they cause listlessness, they cause stagnation, they cause heedlessness, they cause other souls to become weary of the Cause of God.  AB01621

The power which has gathered you here today notwithstanding the cold and windy weather is, indeed, mighty and wonderful. It is the power of God, the divine favor of Baha'u'llah which has drawn you together. We praise God that through His constraining love human souls are assembled and associated in this way.   ABU1153

"Similarly, numerous, various meetings and assemblages have been organized during the past ages and by-gone centuries. All these produced no result except those assemblages which rendered unmixed service to the Light of Truth; from such assemblages alone great results were realized in the world of existence."   ABU0821

For a time he attended the spiritual gatherings and associated and conversed with us, passing his days in the utmost joy and fragrance. Now that he has been granted permission to return, I deemed it fitting to write you a letter giving an account of him, that you may offer thanksgiving at the Divine Threshold   AB00244

Hearken with the ear of the heart to the hidden secrets and heavenly Mysteries in the world of soul and spirit and listen to the Divine Glad-tidings. For His Holiness Baha'u'llah has so united the hearts that they correspond together without the means of pen and paper, explaining the Mysteries of the Kingdom.   AB05485

Then spread the feast and give refreshments. Assuredly great results will be the outcome of such meetings. Material and spiritual benefits will be assured. All who are present will be intoxicated with the breezes of the Love of God, and the Breath of the Holy Spirit will with tremendous power inspire the hearts.  ABU0702

The hope of this broken heart servant is that the respected friends will at all times remain united and together in the utmost wisdom, will attain new life again through the mention of the Ancient Beauty and will kindle their joy, their yearning and fervour in each other through the thought of His good-pleasure.   AB01619

Your letter dated July 3, 1913 arrived. Its contents indicated the firmness and steadfastness of the divine friends and the formation of the divine gathering in that luminous, pure desert. Praise be to God, they spent that day in utmost joy and delight. That annual gathering will be a memorial from 'Abdu'l-Baha.   AB01055

The gathering of divine friends and assembly of the companions of the All-Merciful is the envy of the Garden of Ridvan and the adornment of the eternal Paradise, for in that gathering the candle of remembrance of the Ancient Beauty is lit and the garden of mysteries of the Greatest Name blooms fresh and verdant.   AB01825

The world hath been illumined by the lights of the Ancient One, yet the peoples remain behind a manifest veil, save those whom the hand of power hath delivered and who have been quickened by the life-giving breeze which wafted from the Branch suspended upon the trunk of the Beloved of all in the heavens and earth.  BH03864

When once every nineteen days the people of the Kingdom gather in an assembly, and in the utmost love and kindness make mention of God, and this becomes the cause of unity and harmony, there is no doubt that such is a divine feast, a heavenly table, an infinite bounty and blessing, and a token of the Lord's Supper.  AB08825

There are good gatherings the like of which is not found in the World of existence, because all the gatherings (different) are of this physical World, while one belongs to the World of Divinity. All the gatherings that are formed are based on certain interest, but this gathering has no object except the Divine Love.  ABU2640

Praised be God that under the shadow of the bounties of the Ancient Beauty such heavenly gatherings are now held. Presently the benefits of these assemblages are not evident. If a person is endowed with the least equity or discernment, he would understand how immense and prevailing is the might of the Blessed Beauty.  ABU0732

Thus shall they celebrate at the banquet of the love of God with such exaltation, such exhilaration and rapture of the spirit that the melodies of that gladsome assembly and the songs sung in those peerless gatherings may echo to the very heights of the divine empyrean, thrilling the denizens of the Concourse on high.  AB00830

He gave such praise and descriptions of the Parsee assembly that it brought endless joy to heart and soul. Among the descriptions was that the Parsee assembly is so luminous that it is a spiritual gathering and a divine assembly - it is the highest paradise and reflects the form and pattern of the supreme gatherings.   AB01511

O Lord! Illumine their gatherings with the lights of Thy most glorious Kingdom, perfume their meeting places with the holy fragrances that waft from Thy most exalted Dominion, gladden their ears by causing them to hear the call from the Concourse on High, and rejoice their souls with the attainment of Thy greatest gift.  AB00118

Though it is the time of sunset, yet the lights of the morn of guidance are manifest and evident from the dawning-place of the Most Glorious Horizon. Fix thy gaze upon the Supreme Realm and the Most Exalted Kingdom. Thou shalt witness a rising that hath no setting after it, and observe a day that hath no night to follow.  AB09398

Now see what news there is! I hope that this year in Green Acre, the candles of the Most Great Guidance will shine brighter than last year and the song of the birds of the garden of reality will reach the highest zenith and arrive at the ears of the people of the Most Glorious Kingdom, such that all people will be amazed.   AB01206

And in the afternoon of this day also, the Branches of the Blessed Tree and the people of the pavilion of grandeur and infallibility, together with the Afnan, have been and are being summoned to the Most Holy Court for the reading of the blessed pages which were revealed from the heaven of the Mother Book at dawn this day.   BH02074

How wonderful, how wonderful that you have arranged spiritual gatherings and engaged in divine proofs and arguments, and will prove the Cause of the Manifest Light through conclusive evidence and testimonies from the Holy Books. This purpose is most blessed, and this aim is the cause of illumination of the servants and lands.   AB00616

But the best of meetings is the spiritual meeting; for in these days visits to these regions are accomplished with difficulty. I ask God that that spiritual meeting become realized so that the illumined bounty may prevail, the inner susceptibilities may be awakened and the eternal meeting in the Kingdom of God may be attained.  AB08715

Whatsoever gathering is arranged with the utmost love, and where those who attend are turning their faces toward the Kingdom of God, and where the discourse is of the Teachings of God, and the effect of which is to cause those present to advance -- that gathering is the Lord's, and that festive table hath come down from heaven.  AB03158

May the consultative gathering of Hisar, the teaching meetings, and the general assemblies, both for men and women, be blessed and confirmed through the glances of the Lord of Oneness. They have established gatherings and engaged in mentioning the mysteries in assemblies, they have gathered in Thy love and arisen to serve Thee.  AB06141

The children's school on Sunday and the reading of the Tablets and teachings of Baha'u'llah and the delivery of the Word of God to the ears of children is very blessed. You must definitely continue conducting this gathering and give it importance so that day by day it may expand and be quickened by the breaths of the Holy Spirit.   AB06394

approach was made to the Presence and it was presented. He said: We beseech God, exalted be His glory, to keep the saplings of the garden of inner meanings fresh and verdant through the breezes of the springtime of divine knowledge, that the worlds of the seen and unseen may benefit from its fruits and be perfumed by its fragrances.  BH09330

For the time being, the old friends, like roses and tulips, took up the cup of the love of God, and in that gathering the call of drink and be merry was raised from the wine of divine knowledge. A feast was arranged, a banquet was adorned, a spiritual gathering was formed, and the luminous beloved became the candle of that assembly.  AB00514

As they are days of freedom from work and worry the leaders of communities must discuss such problems which may be beneficial to the individuals and the outcomes of which be eternal. They must be occupied with prayers and thanksgiving, commemorate the True One, and be grateful to the Favors and Bounties of God, Our Glorious Lord....  ABU2387

Since this is a month in which the seekers of the true goal, the wayfarers on the spiritual path, the drinkers of the choice wine of inner meanings, and the circumambulators of the divine Ka'bah are all in a state of attraction, passion and joy, God willing, the Most Exalted Names are fully achieved, adorned and embellished by it all.  BH07479

At night, one would chant prayers, another would sing verses, another would be overcome with joy and ecstasy. It was quite remarkable. Everyone who came there was transformed. The Blessed Beauty would speak for two or three hours. The Best of Stories would be recited. There were some who were full of enthusiasm, attraction and ecstasy  ABU0080

The candle of the gathering must be the mention of God, teaching the Cause of God, explaining divine proofs, and expounding the teachings of Baha'u'llah. When this happens, the gathering becomes heavenly, becomes divine, becomes lordly, becomes illumined, and becomes the cause of guidance for the wayward and yields tremendous results.   AB02099

Through the favors of the King of Oneness and His Holiness the All-Merciful, there is complete trust and assurance that those friends, like the flowers of the garden of paradise, will day by day gain greater freshness and delicacy from the outpourings of the clouds of grace, and the Cause of God will gain mighty strength in that region.  AB04901

Although these gatherings and meetings are patterns of the gatherings of the Concourse on High - what is below reflects what is above - yet since the eyes of the enemies are narrow and every hateful one is distressed with hatred and envy toward the loved ones, therefore one must be tactful and meetings should not exceed nineteen people   AB01925

In brief these are the things to be studied in your meetings, and in the privacy of your homes. These facts will cause the illumination of your hearts and the strengthening of your faith. Pass not your precious hours in the idle discussion of those problems which bear no result. Devote your time to high thinking and ennobling discourse.  ABU0638

Therefore, arrange a complete gathering of the loved ones of God, bring everyone together, chant the verses of unity and recite prayers. Together offer praise and thanksgiving to the Beauty of Oneness in gratitude for this bounty. Arrange a complete feast so that the friends of God may share and partake in this joy and gladness with you.  AB03966

I became very happy to hear of the house that the friends prepared for me in New York, but they must consider that the heart and soul of Abdul Baha are present there, and the lights of unity and harmony must shine to such an extent that the house will be full of light and those who are there will feel that really Abdul Baha is present...  AB09760

There were ten people living in one small room and often they did not have any other food than a few dates, yet from sunset till midnight and long after that they chanted prayers, sang and showed a merry heart, forgetting their outward circumstances and living only in spiritual atmosphere full of sweet communion and delightful converse.   ABU0424

Our feasts are very wonderful. They are unique and peerless. During the days of the Blessed Perfection we celebrated this National New year's day with great elaboration and festivity... These days are the days of the feasting and rejoicing, days of love and good-fellowship, days of receptions and banquets, days of meetings and assemblies.  ABU0731

In the days when I was in Stuttgart, you gathered together the children of the friends one day in Esslingen and I was present at that gathering. Those children were truly the children of the Kingdom. They had illumined hearts and spirits made joyous by the glad-tidings of God. The sweetness of that gathering is still remembered in my soul.  AB12462

The meetings thou art establishing in thy home are the cause of strengthening the hearts of the spiritually-minded ones, of guiding the seekers, and of awakening those who slumber. That gathering is illumined by the light of divine favor and, like a garden of mystical knowledge, is adorned with the flowers of divine realities and meanings.  AB09509

About one thousand years ago a society was formed in Persia called the Society of the Friends, who gathered together for silent communion with the Almighty. When they assemble in their meeting-house they sit silently and contemplate; their leader opens with a certain proposition, and says to the assembly 'You must meditate on this problem'.  ABU0395

I have heard that this year's Mashriqu'l-Adhkar Congress will be held in Boston. The friends in Boston should count this among the greatest divine confirmations and strive with heart and soul so that all the Congress members who come from American cities may become attracted, grateful and appreciative, and spend their days in the utmost joy   AB03425

In America we had a good number of heavenly and spiritual gatherings. One night in Washington there was a gathering full of spirituality. It was so effective the Turkish Ambassador wept. This was a great gathering. We also had good gatherings in Europe, such as in London, Paris, Vienna, Budapest and Germany. They were all spiritual meetings.   ABU0807

They envision that on specified days they will form an assembly in that gathering and consult, and adhere to and pursue whatever causes the spread of the light of guidance. If they arise to fulfill the necessary conditions and covenants, this assembly is truly a rose garden and meadow of reality and a sign of the bestowal of the Divine Unity.  AB00394

Blessed be thine eye for what it beheld, and thine ear for what it heard, and thy body for having attained a praiseworthy station of nearness. Happy art thou, O servant, for having emigrated from thy home and journeyed unto God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, until thou didst arrive at the city which was named the Abode of Peace aforetime  BH02378

O Muhammad! The house wherein is raised the call of the loved ones and wherein they are occupied with the remembrance of God is, in the sight of God, the circling-place of the near angels. Blessed is the house wherein are diffused the fragrances of Revelation and wherein is raised the remembrance of God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, the Wise.   BH01493

that a luminous gathering has been established in Calcutta. I beseech from the divine favors that this gathering be illumined and become, through the breaths from the Abha Paradise, a rose garden and flower garden. When hearts become detached unto God and souls become pure and good, the spirit and conscience become mirrors of the radiant sun.   AB00407

wherefore at length, on the wings of yearning and devotion, of rapture and attraction, thou didst set out to reach the Most Exalted Destination, traversing prairies, deserts, seas and mountains, until thou didst attain the Furthermost Bourne, and the Spot around which the Concourse on High circle in adoration. No station equalleth this station   BH03211

The more such meetings increase, it will increase the diffusing of the Fragrances. The news concerning the unity, harmony, affinity and oneness of the maidservants of the Merciful One and the friends of God in those parts imparted the utmost joy and happiness (to us). This indicates that the Cause will before long yield results in that country.  AB01051

"I am leaving Paris for the Orient though in reality I am always with you. Place does not matter. Two people may be in the same room and yet not attain to a visitation. When I was in prison many people came to see me. They crossed seas and deserts and yet remained in the city of the blind while others in far-distant lands attained the meeting."   ABU0873

It was a good gathering; the effects thereof shall spread to every corner of the world, inasmuch as the ray of the Sun of Truth was shining upon it. That gathering was luminous indeed; every heart was turned towards the Abha Kingdom, every eye was fixed on the Most Exalted Horizon, and every soul was rejoicing as it heard the glad-tidings of God.  ABU3707

Gatherings in assemblies of more than nine or nineteen are not permissible. In all gatherings, if it is a meeting for fellowship and association, some mention should be made of the virtues of those in authority and the kindness of the king. And if they are meetings for remembrance and devotion, surely at the end a prayer for good should be offered  AB11638

You must feel very happy because you are here with me and we are associating together with the utmost Kindness. In reality, our stay here is like unto worship, for praise be to God we are occupied with His mention and have no other aim save His good-pleasure. It is my hope that the important results will be the issue of our gathering in this place.  ABU1535

Every day at first light, ye gather the Baha'i children together and teach them the communes and prayers. This is a most praiseworthy act, and bringeth joy to the children's hearts: that they should, at every morn, turn their faces toward the Kingdom and make mention of the Lord and praise His Name, and in the sweetest of voices, chant and recite.   AB06194

A study class for teaching must be established where necessary topics, brilliant meanings, and knowledge of spoken and written proofs and evidences are acquired. Beyond this, the divine friends should, when gathering together, limit their discussion and conversation to presenting proofs and evidence so they may gain complete proficiency in teaching.  AB02224

Take the cup of the love of God in thy right hand and with thy left hand hoist the banner of universal peace, love and affection among the nations of the earth. Call out (saying): "Hasten! Hasten unto the Great Bounty! Press! Press forward unto the Abundant Mercy! Speed! Speed unto the Manifest Light! Be urgent! Be urgent for the Great Attainment!"   AB01087

To appoint a committee to superintend feasts. These are held by groups of friends every nineteen days. There will be kept in a book a record of the arrangement of feasts. Arrangements for feasts will be made through this committee, when a friend desires to give one. One friend may wish to give three feasts a year, another more; another not so many.   ABU0649

The Baha'i meetings are luminous, spiritual, blessed by the All Merciful! These meetings stir the hearts and give glad tidings to the human hearts. This is the beginning! In the near future the situation will improve and these meetings will become assemblies of the Kingdom and those who gather in them will be as the angels of the world of the unseen.  AB05244

The hearts of the friends are mirrors of the Kingdom. The All-Merciful Lord has ordained that the blessed countenance of each one should be reflected in the mirror of another's heart, so that, embracing one another, they may demonstrate the utmost oneness and, like the trees in the garden of the Concourse on High, become fruitful in a single paradise.  AB07973

You must celebrate yearly, annually, the day of his departure from this life, and all of you, on my behalf, may go and visit his blessed tomb; and if possible spread a feast for the poor and give charity to those who are deprived on that occasion. Mention the services he has rendered, read passages from his words, and explain the history of his life.   ABU1693

This feast belongs to the illustrious pilgrims of the Jewish descent. Through the favors of the Blessed Beauty, many diverse people have gathered in this assembly and partaken of this spiritual sustenance - Jewish, Christian or Muslim descendents, and friends from both the East and the West - each coming from a different locality arriving at this Land.  ABU1742

This was a lovely night. Praise be to God that we associated together with the utmost of concord. The power of divine Spirit has brought us together. I hope that we may be together always spiritually, that our spirits may talk one to another, that although we may never see each other in this physical body we may commune together on the plain of Reality.   ABU0734

It contained the good news that the friends of God and the maidservants of the Merciful have gathered in summer at Green Acre, have been engaged day and night in the commemoration of God, have served the oneness of the world of humanity, have shown love to all religions, have remained aloof from every religious prejudice and have been kind to all people.   AB03928

Thou hast written regarding the program of the Green Acre's Conference in the past summer, that the believers were in the utmost attraction and from all parts the guests hastened to the spot, saying that such radiant meeting has not been brought about in any of the former ages, the members of which associated with each other with perfect love and affinity.   AB00626

Today he has invited Thy noble chosen ones and distinguished loved ones to Thy resplendent garden and mighty grove, hosting them with a wondrous heavenly feast that they may draw sustenance and provision from Thy most perfect grace, the food of heaven, their hearts expanding through generosity and bestowal, remembering Thy mention from morning until evening.  AB01888

After reading this letter, gather in groups of nineteen in various places and at different times, mixing together friends from among the followers of the Qur'an and of Moses, and after reciting verses and prayers, read this letter from this yearning one and recite the prayer, and shake hands and embrace one another, renewing the covenant of love and oneness.   AB01743

Gatherings in meetings of more than nine or nineteen are not permitted. In all gatherings, if it is a meeting for conversation and fellowship, some mention must be made of the praiseworthy qualities of those in authority and the kindness of the Pasha. And if they are meetings for remembrance and devotion, certainly at the end prayers for good must be offered   AB12176

Keep this secret hidden, deliver that respected house from others' hands, and quietly arrange gatherings there, engaging in remembrances at dawn and prayers and supplications in the morning... However in Shiraz it must proceed with utmost wisdom and caution, so that strangers may never become aware - even among the friends present it as a spiritual gathering.   AB00812

If it is possible, change the meeting of every nineteen days into a feast. In the churches turn thy face toward the Kingdom of ABHA and supplicate the help of the Holy Spirit, and, with a detached heart, begin to talk. They sit together, read the holy Tablets, are engaged in the commemoration of the True One and strive and endeavor to promote the Word of God.   AB00658

You host gatherings on Naw-Ruz day and provide hospitality to a group of the loved ones of God and handmaidens of the All-Merciful, preparing both heavenly sustenance and physical food so that they may read divine tablets, explain the divine teachings, discuss the counsels and advice of the Most Glorious Beauty, speak and listen, engage in the mention of Truth   AB04386

The secretary in the spiritual gathering must be like a shining candle, for he is the means for disseminating thoughts and expressing mysteries. Praise be to God that the Convention for the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar was arranged with the utmost joy. The members gathered in that spiritual meeting with radiant faces, divine hearts, merciful spirits and heavenly tidings.   AB01935

thou hast made thy home a nest and shelter for the birds of the meadow, transformed it into a rose-garden of divine unity, and established it as a gathering place for the people of detachment, so that at dawn and daybreak it may become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar where lights will shine forth and the melody of devotion and supplication will be raised to the Abha Kingdom  AB09505

Assembly means the diffusion of the divine fragrances, not merely a gathering. Assembly means humility and submissiveness toward the loved ones of God. Assembly means the exaltation of the Word of God. Assembly means sanctification and purification from all else save God. This is a spiritual assembly. This is a divine gathering. This is a heavenly congregation.   AB03779

We asked 'Abdu'l-Baha about our Oakland, home meetings - how they should be conducted and we told him we opened our service by saying the Greatest Name (in silence) nine times. He replied, That is very good, that is right for that brings harmony into the meeting. Then He said that the "Hidden Words" should be read, and often the "Tajalleyat," that was important.  ABU2608

The spiritual meeting must be in the utmost of ecstasy and tumult. The supplication must be perused, the Tablets and verses be read, eloquent speeches be delivered, divine proofs be explained, the audience be encouraged and incited to enter the Kingdom of God, the news received from different parts be read and at the end they may collectively read a supplication.  AB04659

And regarding the matter of multiple gatherings - very good, but the gathering that the Blessed Beauty established is divine, heavenly, lordly, eternal, for the candle of that gathering is the Blessed Beauty and its lights radiate to all horizons. That gathering is for teaching, and every teaching gathering is an assembly among the assemblies of the higher realm.  AB00989

Today the divine table of bounties is spread in the wilderness of God's love. This feast is most colorful, for every food and blessing is adorned in utmost beauty. Praise be to God that those friends were invited to this table, that they might be seated at the head of this heart-delighting spread and their taste might be sweetened by this most delectable bounty.   AB04758

In whatever place the believers of God hold a meeting, peruse the heavenly teachings and associate with each other with the utmost amity, affection and harmony, there is no doubt whatsoever that the Holy Spirit will become the Candle of that gathering; and the blessed souls participating in that meeting will feel spontaneously the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.  AB02927

When I gazed upon those lines, an indescribable joy and delight occurred, for it was from a spiritual friend from the days when we had intimacy in the presence of the Intended One, when our nostrils were perfumed by the fragrances of that holy rose-garden, our ears were delighted by the address of the All-Merciful, and hearts were gladdened by beholding that Beauty.   AB02993

"Take the cup of sanctity in thy right hand and pass the glass of the Kingdom, in the social meeting--which is the wine of the love of God and the sweet, pure, cool water of the knowledge of God--and give to drink to those who are in attendance, that they may rejoice, be happy and sing the hymns of sanctity and unification, offering their praise to the Supreme Kingdom."  AB07029

This arrangement of festival and affection, chanting of Tablets, explaining realities and significances, and this inculcating of the teachings and exhortations of Abdul Baha--causes everlasting life and makes the hearers as Heavenly Angels. Whenever such an entertainment is arranged through spiritual sentiments, shining faces and merciful hearts, it is a "Lord's Supper".   AB00372

The celebration of the Feast of Naw-Ruz made me glad. Consider how different this meeting was from that of last year. Consider the bounty and the blessing of God. Therefore, know that this Cause is progressive. No obstacles in the world can hinder it. Thou didst realize divine joy and happiness in that meeting. Is it possible for earthly gatherings to give such divine joy?  AB01462

That gathering which you arranged at Mr. Bowen's home and where you gave a talk was an assembly of spiritual ones and caused the heedless to become aware and mindful. You will certainly continue to form such gatherings repeatedly so that you and the souls firm and steadfast in the Covenant may speak in these gatherings and awaken the sleeping ones and bring the dead to life.   AB02457

In any case, each year on the day of that blessed soul's ascension, the friends should visit his grave with utmost humility and submissiveness on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha, and with complete reverence scatter bouquets of flowers on his grave, and spend the entire day in prayer and turning to the Kingdom of Verses, and in thoughts and mention of that illustrious person's virtues.   AB02712

In every cycle and dispensation, the feast hath been favoured and loved, and the spreading of a table for the lovers of God hath been considered a praiseworthy act. This is especially the case today, in this dispensation beyond compare, this most generous of ages, when it is highly acclaimed, for it is truly accounted among such gatherings as are held to worship and glorify God.  AB02048

Bad conduct or deeds are not allowed at any time and especially during the Feast. But those are the days of happiness, days of joy and gladness. For example, it is bad not to work on other days, but in these days of feasts, work must be abandoned. Those days are the days of forgiveness and pardon, days of cheer and enjoyment, days of affection and attraction, days of blessings.   ABU2643

However, since it contained the glad tidings of the fellowship of the friends and establishment of a gathering of the beloved ones, it brought the utmost joy and delight - provided that it proves lasting and does not endure for just a few days, after which weariness sets in and darkness appears in hearts, causing the dispersal of the gathering and the scattering of the assembly.   AB05139

A good fragrance is coming from the rose-garden of Kenosha and a pleasing breeze is blowing from the orchard of the hearts of the friends and maid-servants of the Merciful. Praise be to God, that town, by the presence of the beloved ones and the maid-servants of the Merciful, hath become a veritable paradise and its space, like unto the heavens, is illuminated with radiant lamps.   AB02141

That cherished friend of pleasant countenance, engaging disposition and sweet nature spent some time in the Promised Land, the blessed spot, the sacred valley, in close association with the devoted ones. Day and night he was occupied with the mention of the Lord of Hosts in the gatherings of the friends, and most often he would visit the holy shrine, illumining his heart and soul.  AB07344

Sometimes there are people at a meeting who are like candles having no light. They have been extinguished. There are other candles which are aflame and give light to the meeting. Meetings are like gardens. There are some gardens which are fresh and fertile, having trees which have beautiful blossoms, which produce very sweet and delicious fruit. But there are gardens which are dead.  ABU1767

Through the arrival of the friends and the efforts of Aqa Siyyid Abdul-Husayn and Aqa Mirza Mahdi, Ardistan, praise be to God, became a rose garden. The friends arose to serve and succeeded in establishing the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar. Gatherings of prayer and supplication to the Abha Kingdom were founded and meetings for fellowship in the remembrance of the Lord of Grandeur were arranged.  AB11361

O my spiritual friends! The heavenly bestowals are fully manifested and the effusions of His grace are like vernal showers around us. His lights are in full splendour and all horizons shine with the radiance of His Covenant. The East is illumined the West is fragrant. The world of being is astir with movement and contingent existence is alive with the spirit of His loving Providence.  AB02824

Should in the coming year also a great Conference be held in that meadow, a heavenly Festival be organized with the utmost love and affinity and the jubilee of the Oneness of the world of humanity be arranged, there is no doubt, that each soul will become like a candle in that gathering and such joy and happiness will be unveiled that the Continent of America will be moved and stirred  AB02848

O friends! To chant the verses of Divine Unity with a soul-stirring melody by night and by day is the exclusive privilege of the people of God. Therefore, one must not maintain silence even for a moment, but rather, in the secluded sanctuary of divine mystery, must convey divine praise and glorification to the court of the One with melodies like those of the birds of the sacred garden.  AB03953

Do not say 'gathering' - say 'assembly of spiritual ones,' say 'congregation of divine ones,' say 'retreat of the merciful ones,' say 'court of the glorified ones,' for each member of that assembly is a bright candle, and that gathering is like the mansions of the stars and moon, confirmed by the assistance of the Lord of humanity, and promoting the Feast mentioned in the Most Holy Book.  AB08009

The gathering you have arranged in your home is a heavenly gathering, for the Sun of Truth has cast its rays upon it. In that gathering the mention of God is spread abroad, hearts are turned toward the divine Kingdom, and eyes are opened to witness the signs of the All-Merciful. Persist in holding this gathering and strive day by day to strengthen its foundations and organize its affairs.  AB06745

With regard to the assembly, there must be spiritual consultation therein; discourses about the manifestation of the Greatest Orb, the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the greatness of the blessed Cause, the power and penetration of the Word of God, the might of the divine Covenant and Testament must be mentioned. This will be conducive to the spirituality and illumination of the hearts.   AB02631

Praise be to God, that the Friends and Maidservants of the Merciful gathered together in one meeting like unto bright candles, in the Anniversary Day of Roshan: They commemorated the name of the True One, became attracted to the Kingdom of Abha, enkindled with the Fire of the Love of God. Thank ye God that such gatherings are established, such bounties descend and such graces are unveiled.  AB03318

Therefore, you must manifest in gatherings of the loved ones and meetings of the chosen ones an eloquent tongue, a brilliant proof, evident attraction, fluent speech and elevated utterance. You must certainly recite verses, prayers and poems in every gathering and deliver speeches with utmost eloquence so that all present may be filled with joy and gladness and all hearts may be attracted.   AB05720

O God! Grant that this palace reach completion, and this divinely-ordained temple become a mighty edifice, in order that the melodies of glorification and praise may reach unto the Kingdom, the nightingale's dawn-tide melodies may rise from the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar to the world of mysteries, and the Concourse on High and the inmates of the Kingdom of Glory may be filled with joy and gladness.   AB11877

This is a heavenly feast, an excellent meeting. Surely this is praiseworthy. The Supreme Concourse now is beholding this assemblage, proclaiming aloud: "Blessed are ye! Blessed are ye! Blessed are ye who are the servants of Baha'o'llah! Blessed are ye who are the manifestors of faith! Blessed are ye who have such radiant countenances! Blessed are ye whose hearts are like unto rose gardens!"  ABU0228

How spiritual are our meetings! In the utmost love are we set aglow! The hearts are all attracted to each other. It is just like being one soul, one body. Such a meeting as this is impossible and cannot be organized save through the Love of God. There is no material interest whatsoever. There is no worldly desire at all. In the utmost purity and holiness has the Force of Divinity assembled us.   ABU0381

But concerning the established (organized assemblies), altogether outside conversation must not be introduced therein. Nay, rather, conversation must be confined to the reading of verses, the perusing of Words and affairs which pertain to the Cause of God, such as explaining proofs and evidences, delivering clear and irrefutable arguments and announcing the signs of the Beloved of the creatures.  AB07821

Your letter describing the Ridvan feast and spiritual gathering was read with utmost joy. Praise be to God that there was an assembly in complete attraction [...] who are turned toward the Abha Kingdom and desire to sacrifice their lives in the path of God. However, with wisdom, they should always arrange feasts on the appointed days and hold heavenly gatherings and engage in the mention of God.   AB03007

Increase your gladness and joy moment by moment, adorn the gatherings of fellowship, mingle with one another in holy fragrances, and show forth such love for each other that whoever beholds you will see you as lovers of one another and servants of each other. Yet act with wisdom and stray not from its bounds. Gather not in any place more than nine persons, and if necessary let not exceed nineteen.  AB07216

But now beneath the Bounty and Favor of the Blessed Perfection - - May my life be a sacrifice to his believers! - - such great meetings of different nationalities and religions are held here at the foot of Mount Carmel, adjoining the Tomb of the Blessed Herald of the Day of God, Tablets were chanted, poems are recited, speeches are delivered and the feasts of marriages between the friends are held   ABU0166

The greater their purity, the greater their reflected splendour. Wherefore, let us arise, let us bestir ourselves, let us rally round the Standard of the One True God, and gather together under the shadow of the Lord's Sacred Tree, the Tree that hath voiced the Call of God and uttered the Word of Truth. This is indeed, in the eyes of the Lord, your God, the Gracious, a supreme and glorious triumph.  AB05943

Although our assembly tonight numbers only ten outwardly, in reality it is representative of all the beloved of God. Why? Because it pictures the Baha'i community. The seed, no matter how small, in the estimation of the perceptive mind, is a veritable tree. The mind images the tree and the tree is revealed from the seed. Likewise, when I see you it is as though I were seeing all the beloved of God.  ABU2897

Praise be to God that the lights of the Sun of Reality show forth from the horizon of Urbana and the Mysteries of the Kingdom became manifest. What a merciful assembly is founded! What a lordly circle is organized! This is no other save the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abha; for in that city such a meeting is established! This is the first cornerstone of the divine structure laid in that district.  AB01787

The gatherings that thou dost arrange in thine own home are a source of strength to the hearts of the spiritually-minded, of guidance to the seekers, and of awakening to those who slumber. That gathering is illumined by the light of divine favors and, like a garden of mystical knowledge, is adorned with the flowers of inner meanings and realities. It is hoped that this gathering will progress day by day  AB09509

Give the utmost importance to the 19 day Feasts, so that the Friends of God and the Maidservants of the Merciful may turn their faces to the Kingdom, read the supplications, entreat for confirmation, be attracted with love for one another, add to their holiness, virtue and sanctity, resist the army of passion and desire, be abstracted from the elemental world and submerged in the sea of spiritual emotions.   AB01926

Numerous meetings are held in Paris every day for different purposes, to discuss politics, commerce, education, art, science and many other subjects. All these meetings are good: but this assembly has met together to turn their faces towards God, to learn how best to work for the good of humanity, to seek how prejudices may be abolished, and the seed of love and universal brotherhood sown in the heart of man.  ABU0061

The spiritual gathering you have established in that illumined city was most fitting and effective. Indeed, you have shown great effort, taken precedence, arisen in servitude at the Most Great Threshold, and attained a bounty. Now you must gather in that radiant assembly with perfect vigor and spirituality, chant the verses of the Perspicuous Book, engage in the remembrance of God, present proofs and evidences   AB01105

The lovers from all regions, intoxicated by the blessed words "And a proclamation from God and His Messenger to all people on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage", turned with their whole being toward the direction of the Beloved. They attained the circumambulation of the House, visitation of the Stone, the running between Safa and Marwa, and the rites which whisper in the pure ear "Forget not the people of God."   BH02078

In these days when the Lamp of the Covenant hath been lit in the apex of the horizons and the lights of the emanations of the Most Great Luminary from the Kingdom of the Unseen have made East and West the envy of the world in their radiance, the divine foundation must be laid upon humility and lowliness. The spiritual loved ones must, night and day, occupy themselves with enkindling and setting ablaze the hearts.  AB09539

Meetings organized with the utmost holiness and piety, wherein those who are present engage in the mention and thought of God, and wherein the verses of Oneness are chanted and the prayers of the Threshold of the Lord of Verses are offered and the exhortations and counsels of the Blessed Beauty recited, such meetings are illumined, spiritual, divine and heavenly. They are the means of training the world of humanity.  AB01892

The friends in every land should gather together with wisdom and utterance in meetings and assemblies to read the verses of God, for the verses kindle the fire of love and ignite its flame. However, they must observe wisdom in all conditions, and gatherings of five to nine persons are sufficient. The locations must also be varied, for if they are held in one place, the heedless will become aware and cause commotion.   BH00443

O thou who art attracted to the Covenant! Praise be to God that thou hast made thy home a nest and shelter for the birds of the meadow, transformed it into a rose-garden of oneness, and established it as a gathering place for those who are detached, so that at dawn and daybreak it may become a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar where lights will shine forth and the melody of prayer and supplication will be raised to the Abha Kingdom.  AB09505

The Spiritual Meeting of men (House of Spirituality) and the Spiritual Meeting of women (Assembly of Teaching) in Chicago are indeed endeavoring to serve. If they unite, as they should, they will produce great results. Especially, if the Spiritual Meetings of Chicago unite with those of New York and become bound together, in a short while the fragrance of the divine garden, which giveth life, will perfume all regions.   AB01614

When heavenly gatherings are held therein, devotions are offered, divine verses are intoned in wondrous voices and prayers are chanted, the inhabitants of the Concourse on High hearken unto them and cry out with the call of "blessed, blessed are ye!" that, praise be unto God, in the lower realm, angels from Kingdom of Glory have arisen to pray and supplicate and to intone the verses of Divine Unity in a holy gathering.  AB12080

These gatherings cause the divine table to descend from Heaven, and draw down the confirmations of the All-Merciful. My hope is that the breathings of the Holy Spirit will be wafted over them, and that each one present shall, in great assemblies, with an eloquent tongue and a heart flooded with the love of God, set himself to acclaiming the rise of the Sun of Truth, the dawn of the Day-Star that lighteth all the World.  AB10091

Every meeting which is held for the purpose of teaching the Cause of God and the people are gathered there to listen to the explanation of the Word and strive to live and act in accord with the advice and exhortation of the Blessed Perfection - that meeting is heavenly and its Cup-bearer is His Holiness Baha'u'llah. The lights of that meeting are the Confirmations of the Kingdom. Time and place have no control over this.   ABU0778

The report of [your meeting] was noted. All the arrangements of the meeting are suitable and acceptable. Regarding arrangements for the Bahai Sunday meeting for the purpose of worship, this is very suitable. But, in a meeting for worship, first, prayer should be chanted and supplication made until all gather; then communion should be made. After praying, sacred readings with melodious voices should be read by all together.  AB04339

The greatest meeting held during the day of Christ was the Lord's supper. There were only twelve. The meeting was held in a very humble quarter with no table, no chairs and no rugs. They sat around a simple wooden heard and spoke on the glad tidings of the Kingdom. Now consider the results of that one Supper. One end of Christ's table is in the East, the other is in the West and many nations and tongues are sitting around it!  ABU1939

That blessed assemblage was blessed indeed, and 'Abdu'l-Baha was present in spirit, as an intimate companion. On such blessed days, the friends of God must renew their unity and oneness, and must associate with one another in perfect love and kindness, in joy and delight. They must adorn their gathering with the remembrance of God and raise such melody and song as to bring the dwellers of the Kingdom into rapture and ecstasy.   AB03982

Blessed are the homes that serve as gathering places for the loved ones of God. He hath caused souls to be attracted and hath adorned those places with the presence of His chosen ones. Blessed is the land that hath attained in My days, which God hath made a dwelling place for My pure ones, and blessed is the house wherein the fragrance of My loved ones is found, and blessed are the faces illumined by the Sun of My loving-kindness.  BH11773

This is a great day - greater than you can comprehend - and you ought to appreciate it. Truly the East and the West now meet together - Persia and America. In the time of Christ the disciples met with Him - it was then also the meeting of the East and West - and their meeting made this one possible, but this meeting is far greater on account of the greater love and unity. Their meeting was the seed and this meeting is the fruits.   ABU1017

The rain of mercy descendeth in such measure that man cannot undertake to describe it. Especially for this evanescent one, verses of Divine glory are revealed night and day, yet the people have been so seized by heedlessness and the ornaments of the world that one despaireth of their awareness and knowledge, unless the Hand of Divine education bestoweth a grace and delivereth the people from the ocean of heedlessness and ignorance.  BH00214

Should a soul dwelling in the furthermost lands fix his gaze upon God, the word of nearness shall be revealed concerning him. But blessed and excellent is the one who attaineth unto both! By Him Who hath made Me abased for the glory of the worlds and imprisoned for the liberation of all peoples - if with pure intent one beholdeth the Countenance of the All-Merciful but once, it equalleth all the good deeds of the first and the last.  BH00245

The beloved of God must therefore consider this Day highly blessed, and glorify and praise it greatly. They must bring this Day to a close with the utmost joy and happiness and gather together in the spirit of infinite love and affection. If a sad feeling should have existed between two individuals, it should be cast away with the dawn of this Day: Great joy and happiness must be the common bond of all who come together at this feast.   ABU0558

But, praise be to God in Hamadan the merciful assembly is organized. That assembly must be illumined. The illumination of every assembly is teaching the Cause of God. The spirituality of every meeting is the diffusion of the Fragrance of God. The mercifulness of every gathering-place is to correspond the deeds, actions and behaviour in accord with the Teachings of God. This is the meeting! This is the assemblage! This is the gathering!  AB03584

The feast (supper) [every nineteen days] is very acceptable and will finally produce good results. The beloved and the maid-servants of the Merciful must inaugurate the feast in such wise as to resurrect the feast of the ancients--namely, the "lord's supper." That meeting for feast for which thou wert preparing and providing, should recur every so often, so that it may prove a means of attracting the confirmation of the Kingdom of ABHA.  AB00587

O thou almighty God! Make the spiritual assembly of Philadelphia the manifestor of invisible confirmations, and the dawning-place of the lights of the Merciful so that its members arise to serve the world of man and be benevolent to the children of humanity, and adore existence and become the cause of Eternal Life. O Lord, make that gathering-place the emblem of the Supreme Concourse, and that congregation the manifest sign of the Supreme Realm.   AB06888

As to thy question regarding the meeting of trinity, it is incumbent on thee to make it a meeting of unity, an exposition of the mysteries of singleness, the elevation of the standard of universal love, the spreading of the knowledge of thy Merciful Lord, the guidance of the souls unto the path of the Kingdom of God, the animation of the hearts by the spirit of the love of God, and the purification of the eyes by the light of the knowledge of God   AB03064

Indeed, if an assembly - that is to say, a gathering - of blessed, knowledgeable, and well-informed souls is established where anyone who develops a doubt or uncertainty can receive from that illumined gathering a sufficient and satisfactory explanation to remove such doubts, and which also engages in exhortation and counsel so as to awaken heedless hearts and cause proud souls to become humble and submissive, this would be most fitting and appropriate.  AB08391

Make Thou them the magnets of love so that they may attract the hearts to the Kingdom of ABHA! Grant Thou to them assistance. Open Thou before their faces the closed doors and make them intimate with the fragrances of holiness, so that they may become the confident friends of each other; raise the melody and the song of joy and sing the harmony of heaven, in order that they may exhilarate and gladden the regions of the West and impart attraction and ecstasy!  AB03002

The feast given by the maidservant of God Dr. Moody truly became the cause of joy to the hearts of the maidservants of the All-Merciful and the means of enkindlement of souls. However, the gathering of such an assemblage in one place is causing anxiety in the minds of some of the authorities... The gathering of a large crowd, whether women or men, in one place and the rising of songs and melodies from the women causes agitation in the hearts of the enemies.   AB01842

Therefore, I have taken up the pen and begun writing this letter. I beseech from God's infinite favors that in all conditions you may perfume your nostrils with the holy fragrances wafting from the Blessed Garden and make your souls fragrant. And in the utmost joy and delight, attraction and rapture, may you be occupied with stringing the pearls of praise and diffusing the holy fragrances of glorification of the Most Glorious Beauty among the peoples of the world   AB05376

Every gathering that is adorned with the remembrance of Truth - its radiance illumines East and West, and its fragrances perfume the nostrils of those present and absent. With perfect wisdom, whenever possible, a gathering of remembrance and devotion should be arranged and the verses of divine unity should be chanted, so that the taste buds of the Concourse on High may be delighted and the hearts of the people of the Most Glorious Kingdom may be gladdened and rejoiced.   AB02648

You had given news of the gathering of the friends during the month of Ramadan and their engagement in the remembrance of God. This news had a pleasant effect, for praise be to God, those bewildered by the countenance of the Most Glorious Beloved are in rapture and attraction, and those yearning for the Supreme Kingdom are in joy and expansion. Every gathering in which the remembrance of the Beauty of the All-Merciful occurs - its sweet fragrances perfume the nostrils.   AB02975

If it be possible, the seven gatherings, which are established in Philadelphia, may have on special days, several times in a year, one big meeting and spread a Persian Feast. In such a Feast it is not necessary to have many servants. The aim is the gathering together of the Friends. If it is possible let the dinner be a Persian one, and one dish, then you can spend that day, like the one of Naw Ruz, in the utmost happiness and be engaged in the mentioning of the True One.  AB09832

I chant verses of thanksgiving at the Most Exalted Threshold for having enabled you to gather and establish this spiritual assembly in that blessed city, which I hope God will make a center of lights radiating to all directions, and that He will assist the members of the Spiritual Assembly in the important divine affairs, in establishing His Kingdom, in developing heavenly character, in achieving spiritual perception, and in attaining the greatest gifts in the world of humanity  AB10244

Thou hast written about the luminous assembly of Washington. It is the cause of rejoicing, as that assembly is the rose garden of divine mysteries and the most sweet fragrances are wafting therefrom. My prayer is that the friends and maidservants of the Merciful on that assembly may persevere with purity of heart and seek to grow day by day. With every passing moment let them become more luminous, and let the members of that assembly make extraordinary progress at the divine threshold.   AB00567

The feast you arranged where the friends of the All-Merciful gathered in fellowship, chanted the clear verses, and became attracted to the Abha Kingdom--that gathering was, in the words of Christ, the Lord's Supper, meaning a heavenly feast and celestial table "wherein is whatever the souls desire and the eyes delight in." You wrote about the gathering of the friends during Ridvan in the garden, that it was astounding. God willing, many such heavenly gatherings will be formed in those regions.  AB00114

His Holiness the Wronged One, meaning the Name of God - upon him be all glory most glorious - in correspondence sent to this servant has greatly complained about the unwisdom shown in the Land of ?a. In one letter he wrote that this servant was invited to a place, but upon arrival it was observed that fifty or sixty of the friends were gathered. I said: 'Have you not heard of wisdom, that it has been ordained that gatherings should not exceed nine persons?' Similarly, other gatherings were observed.  BH00129

O My Name! O thou who travels throughout the lands for My Cause and the exaltation of My Word! Blessed are the houses that become gathering places for the loved ones of God, attracting souls and being adorned by the presence of His chosen ones. Blessed is the land that has attained in My days, which God has made a dwelling place for My pure ones, and blessed is the house that has found the fragrance of My loved ones, and blessed are the faces that have been illumined by the Sun of My loving-kindness.   BH00198

When this assembly was established in the Blessed Day and was graciously named by the Pure Tongue, being called "spiritual", we supposed that at all times we would inhale the holy fragrance from its centers of activity and breathe in the merciful breaths of spirituality from heart and soul. We expected to hear each day such news as would cause hearts to expand and breasts to dilate, and that lights would radiate from that gathering like unto a candle, bringing solace to hearts and guidance to all in the land.  AB00190

According to what is heard and is evident, you have arranged an assembly in the utmost beauty and a number of you present yourselves in that meeting with all love and unity and engage in communion (i.e., reading of the communes), chanting of the verses, spiritual conversation and utterance of the Kingdom. Blessed are ye for having adorned such a meeting and for having prepared such a feast! That gathering receiveth bounty from the Supreme Concourse and that nucleus is under the protection of the Bounty of ABHA.  AB02431

The gathering of the believers is the assembly of the spiritual ones. The spirit of God descends upon the assemblages of the friends. They are the spiritual power-houses and confer bliss and joy. Therefore if a meeting is held, the general discussion of which is spiritual, undoubtedly that meeting is godlike. Strive day and night that your assemblage may become radiant and the hearts illumined. Consort with each other so that your spirits may be stirred into cheerfulness through the Glad-tidings of the Kingdom.   ABU1129

News continually arrives from those friends that, praise be to God, they are engaged in service and each has taken up a lamp of guidance to dispel the darkness of vain imaginings and doubts...My hope is that her luminous gathering continues and that the handmaids of the Merciful assemble in that place, are engaged in the mention of the Lord, occupied with spreading the divine teachings, and strive for unity and harmony. The days when meetings were held in her home and I would attend and speak will not be forgotten.  AB06147

Think of the meetings in Lake Mohonk Conference, Church of the ascension, Philadelphia Baptist, New York Peace Society, meeting in the building of the Daughters of American Revolution, the public Library, in the Universalist Church in Washington, meetings in the churches and hotels of Chicago, meetings in the Jewish Synagogues, large, public meetings everywhere, and above all think of the farewell heavenly Banquets in Cincinati, Washington and New York! Nothing in the world can equal them in spirituality and grandeur.  ABU0488

You have written concerning the spiritual meetings. The foundation of the spiritual meetings must be the teaching and delivering of the Cause of God. In these meetings the believers and maid-servants of the Merciful must proclaim the proofs and arguments and explain the signs of the appearance of the Beauty of Abha--May my life by a sacrifice to the beloved ones! Meanwhile they may read some Tablets and Communes, and at the end of the meetings, if they desire to sing with the utmost supplication and meekness, it is acceptable.  ABU2522

In gatherings that are convened, external conversations should not take place at all. Rather, conversation should be confined to the chanting of verses, the reading of words, and matters pertaining to the Cause of God, such as the exposition of proofs and arguments, clear and evident reasons, and the traces of the Beloved of the worlds. Those who attend such gatherings should, before entering, be adorned with the utmost cleanliness and, turning their attention to the Abha Kingdom, enter in complete humility and submissiveness.  AB02358

"Gather once a week in a public meeting. Before the meeting opens, one must read a prayer or supplication from Baha'u'llah. Afterward they may sing together an anthem or a song. This is optional. They may do it or not. According to their tastes. Then some one may give an address, on some Baha'i subjects. Then they may read Tablets or extracts from the writings of Baha'u'llah such as the hidden words, Tarazat etc. or the news or letters received from other Baha'i Centers. Then with another supplication they may close the meeting."  ABU2097

They have awakened from their slumber, their darkness has been dispelled, their veil has been rent asunder, and their covering has been removed. Thus did they shine forth, gleam, become illumined and receive tidings from the signs of their Creator. They spoke the words of their Maker and sang in the thicket of divine knowledge with the most wondrous melodies, like birds warbling in the gardens of mysteries. They praised the Day-Star of the horizons, whose effulgent rays shine upon the luminous gatherings and blessed, radiant assemblages.  AB00253

establishment of a meeting for the singing of the verses of God, the reading of the Holy Books, the study of the Tablets by the youths of that city, who have sincerely turned their faces to God and became enkindled with the fire of the love of God, abandoned all the conditions that prevent the acquiring of the merciful virtues and the good illumined morals, so that they may love one another and become united in the promulgation of the fragrances of God. The love of God kept them busy from ought else. This establishment is a blessed establishment.  AB00643

Consider what a bounty He has bestowed. Now this gathering, each from a different place, each soul from a different clime and country - how much difference there was between us, how much strife, how much estrangement! He dawned upon us with His attribute of mercy, gathered us all together, gave us fellowship, united us, and gathered us at one table in such a foreign land. And we are all gathered at this table in utmost love, fellowship, unity and oneness, with no purpose save servitude at His Sacred Threshold, and no desire save love and fellowship.  ABU0202

Through it, the hearts are illumined, the souls become spiritual and the fragrances of the Kingdom of Glory are inhaled. The human world becometh another world, and the susceptibilities of the soul are heightened to such a degree that they encompass the entire creation. Behold how abundant the beauty, tenderness, spirituality, and radiance that are attained when ye gather in that gathering place of the spirit, occupy yourselves at dawn with the remembrance of God, and, after offering prayers, make mention together of the Most Bountiful Lord in sweet melodies.   AB11853

Gatherings are in no wise permitted. If several separate meetings be held, this would be more agreeable. When the Most Great Luminary was rising from the horizon of the Land of Mystery, this servant was commanded to write to him who was named Mahdi, whom God caused to dwell in His house after his migration, saying that ye should follow in the footsteps of the Lord of all beings, and associate with the people of the world in the utmost spirit of joy and fragrance, lest alarm and anxiety be aroused among the people and become a cause of disturbance to weak souls.  BH00035

In truth, these days, which are holidays when souls are joyful and are days of fellowship, love and gathering together, should have some result. There should be some discussions and consultations about beneficial matters, so that they may yield eternal fruits. For example, there should be a general consultation about teaching, a general consultation about charitable works and beneficial matters. In brief, there should be some result; it should not remain without fruit, so that from this joy, delight, attraction, enthusiasm and gladness, traces may become manifest.  ABU0991

The great feast that you celebrated on the occasion of the appearance of His Highness, the Bab, likewise the feasts of nineteen days, produced great rejoicing in the hearts of the believers. Whenever the friends and the maidservants of the Merciful gather together, read the Tablets and the words, interchange ideas and deliver eloquent speeches the heavenly blessings descend, the Spiritual Food becomes present, the celestial bounty is unveiled, the confirmations of the Holy Spirit descend uninterruptedly, spiritual development is attained and attractions of heart realized.   AB12136

Whosoever wishes to bear this great gift must, after ablutions, sit in a private place turning towards the Point of God, and then with complete humility and supplication recite the Verse of Power revealed in the first line, then the Names of God revealed in the second line, and then read the prayer revealed in the center of the form. Then it should be folded, and while folding it, one should repeat nineteen times - or according to the number of the Greatest Name (9) which is closer - these luminous words: "He is the Protector, the Helper, the Assister, the One Whose help is sought."  BH00197

All over Europe today one hears of meetings and assemblies, and societies of all kinds are formed. There are those interested in commerce, science, and politics, and many others. All these are for material service, their desire being for the progress and enlightenment of the world of matter. But rarely does a breath from the spirit world breathe upon them. They seem unconscious of the Divine Voice, careless concerning the things of God. But this meeting in Paris is a truly spiritual one. The Divine Breath is poured forth in your midst, the light of the Kingdom is shining in all hearts.  ABU1079

He hath written that the honored beloved, the Physician, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, hath arrived safe and well and is engaged in holy remembrance in gatherings of fellowship. After this matter was presented at the Most Holy Court, He said: We have created all for this purpose, and We beseech God to make you as one soul and to strengthen you in such wise that you may summon all who are in the world, and gather together in My remembrance, the promotion of My Cause, the spreading of My verses, and the manifestation of My power and sovereignty through wisdom and utterance.  BH03035

Look ye not upon the fewness of thy numbers, rather, seek ye out hearts that are pure. One consecrated soul is preferable to a thousand other souls. If a small number of people gather lovingly together, with absolute purity and sanctity, with their hearts free of the world, experiencing the emotions of the Kingdom and the powerful magnetic forces of the Divine, and being at one in their happy fellowship, that gathering will exert its influence over all the earth. The nature of that band of people, the words they speak, the deeds they do, will unleash the bestowals of Heaven, and provide a foretaste of eternal bliss.  AB02652

This meeting will bear great results, may it be like the meeting of the rain with the earth; may it be like the meeting of the breeze with the garden; may it be like the meeting of the Sun with the mirror -- May great results come from it, may wonderful traces emanate from it amongst humanity. There are many meetings, one is due to family relations, another because of commercial ends or another meeting may be for political reasons. All are due to one or another purpose, but all such meetings no results are forthcoming, anyway if they do bear results it is only temporary, not lasting. There is the meeting for the sake of God. This causes ideal attractions.   ABU0924

establish spiritual gatherings and divine assemblies which are the foundation for spreading God's fragrances, exalting God's Word, causing God's light to shine forth, promoting God's religion, and disseminating God's teachings...These spiritual gatherings are supported by the Spirit of God and their protector is Abdul-Baha who spreads his wings over them...These spiritual gatherings are brilliant lamps and heavenly gardens from which the fragrances of holiness are diffused over all regions, the lights of knowledge shine upon all created things, and the spirit of life flows to all directions. They are the most powerful means for the progress of man in all conditions.  AB02310

At the Alliance Spiritualiste meeting in Paris (21 Rue Vieille Columbier, Saint-Germain) on 18 Dhi'l-Qa'dah 1329, where the president of the society spoke with utmost respect and admiration for the Baha'is, 'Abdu'l-Baha said: I am deeply grateful for the president's words and heartfelt sentiments, and I thank God that I am present in such a spiritual gathering in Paris. If we look with the eye of reality, the atmosphere of this meeting is surging with spirit. Heavenly bounties are encompassing us, and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are evident. Praise be to God, these hearts are overflowing with spiritual sentiments and are stirred by the movements of the spirit.  ABU0088

God has created Thursday night and Friday for His servants' delight, relieving them during these hours from occupations that might burden them and veil them from their pleasures - each according to what they find delightful: those who glorify through their glorification, those who sanctify through their sanctification, those who unite through their unification, those who magnify through their magnification, those who eat through their eating, those who drink through their drinking, those who beautify through their beautification, those who take pleasure in what God has ordained for them, and those who refine through their refinement - each according to what brings them delight.  BB00083

Throughout the world there are innumerable meetings and assemblages, more or less important according to their measure of contribution to human betterment, yet limited in their purpose and object to material questions and outcomes. They are political, commercial or educational in character; they seek to promote economic advancement, further agricultural purposes, encourage scientific research and assist discoveries; they provide for the establishment of new institutions, plan financial measures and agree upon laws of civic and social control. Such meetings are useful, but their influence and intention do not extend beyond the material welfare and government of mankind -- that is to say, they serve material civilization.   ABU0588

You had written that in New York you joined with the enkindled handmaiden of God Juliet, the assured handmaiden of God Mother Beecher, the handmaiden of God aflame with the fire of the love of God Mrs. Brittingham, Mr. Woodcock, and other friends, and held a feast where you and Juliet were the hosts. How blessed you are to have been confirmed in such service and assisted in arranging such a feast. Now strive in Montreal that these feasts may continue and become the cause of firmness and steadfastness of the friends and handmaidens of the All-Merciful. May the fragrances of the divine rose garden waft and the life-giving breeze of the Most Glorious Paradise pass by. May those present be stirred with joy and become attuned to endless delight.  AB01553

What a sweet melody reaches the ears of these yearning ones from all directions - it is the glorification and sanctification of the Forgiving Lord and the song and glad tidings of the Day of Manifestation. It is the anthem of "O Glory of God, the Most Glorious" and the singing of "O Thou Most Exalted." It is the call of unity and the high notes of the nightingales of detachment. Praise and thanksgiving be unto the Glorious Lord who has arranged such a gathering whose music and song is the melody of the Supreme Concourse, whose brilliant lamp is the light of supreme guidance, whose gathering's witness is the Blessed Beauty, whose soul-nurturing wine is the love and affection of the Peerless Beloved, and whose delicious food is the heavenly manna.  AB01510

O ye enamored of the Face of God! It befitteth the friends to hold a gathering, a meeting, where they shall glorify God and fix their hearts upon Him, and read and recite the Holy Writings of the Blessed Beauty -- may my soul be the ransom of His lovers! The lights of the All-Glorious Realm, the rays of the Supreme Horizon, will be cast upon such bright assemblages, for these are none other than the Mashriqu'l-Adhkars, the Dawning-Points of God's Remembrance, which must, at the direction of the Most Exalted Pen, be established in every hamlet and city... These spiritual gatherings must be held with the utmost purity and consecration so that from the site itself, and its earth and the air about it, one will inhale the fragrant breathings of the Holy Spirit.  AB01546

You wrote about the reception of the handmaid of Baha Miss Barney which was in the utmost spirituality, and Mr. Mayo's melodies, the handmaid of Baha's speech, the reading of Mr. Dreyfus's book, and Mr. Hannen's words caused the attraction of the hearts of those present, and likewise the speech of the attracted handmaid of God Mrs. Getsinger which was in the utmost effect and attraction, and Mr. Remey's words and Mrs. Dixon's speech, and also the second speech of the handmaid of Baha which explained the penetrating power of the Greatest Name in the hearts and realities of all peoples, and the establishment of universal peace through the all-encompassing power of the Ancient Beauty, and the unification of different religions under the banner of the Covenant  AB11352

As to the meetings organized: In this meetings outside conversation must be entirely avoided, but in the gatherings must be confined to chanting the Verses (Tablets) and reading the Words and to matters which concern the Cause of GOD, such as explaining the proofs, clear and manifest evidences and the traces (or signs) of the Beloved One of the creatures. Those souls who are in the meeting must, before entering it, be arrayed with the utmost cleanliness (purity) and turn to the Kingdom of Abha and then enter the meeting with all meekness and humbleness; and while Tablets are being read, must be quiet and silent, and if one wishes to speak, he must do so with all courtesy, with the satisfaction and permission of those present in the meeting, and do it with eloquence and fluency.  AB01770

There are different gatherings and various meetings held in the world which apparently are in the utmost degree of arrangement and order; in the palaces of the kings many feasts and banquets are held which are incomparable and peerless; also, in the castles of the opulent ones great entertainments are presented and various kinds of foods and victuals are served; the singing of melodious tunes and playing of musical instruments exhilarate and deeply affect the concourse. Associations for political affairs are formed and convivial banquets for pleasure and gratification are offered; assemblages for exhibition of arts and sciences, literature and acquirements are established; meetings for the promotion of industry and commercial matters are being held; extraordinary conventions and religious congresses are arranged.   ABU1063

Thou hast written concerning the meetings and the gathering-places of the believers of God. Such assemblies and congregations will greatly aid the promotion of the Word, and all the audience, whether friends or not friends, become affected. But when the friends have the intention of entering in these meetings and assemblies, they must first make their purpose pure, disengage the heart from all other reflections, ask the inexhaustible Divine Confirmation and with the utmost devotion and humility set their feet in the gathering-place. Let them not introduce any topic in the meeting except the mentioning of the True One, neither must they confuse that merciful assembly with perplexed outside questions. They must either teach or open their tongues in propounding argument, either commune or supplicate and pray to God, either read Tablets or give out advices or exhortations.  AB00595

This feast was established as one of the nineteen days by the Bab, and the Blessed Beauty likewise commanded, encouraged and urged its observance. Therefore it is of the utmost importance. You must certainly exercise the greatest care regarding it and give it importance, so that it may become established and permanent. The friends of God should gather together and associate with one another in the utmost love and fragrance, conducting themselves with the greatest dignity and propriety. They should chant the divine verses, read beneficial articles, study the letters of 'Abdu'l-Baha, encourage one another to love all mankind, pray with the utmost joy and fragrance, recite poems, praises and glorification of the Self-Subsisting Lord, deliver eloquent speeches, and the host himself must personally serve the friends and show kindness to all with the utmost humility. If the gathering is held as it should be, in the manner described, that supper is the Lord's Supper, for its result is the same result and its influence the same influence.  AB04716

Hold weekly meetings and give feasts.  ABU2848

The friends arrange four gatherings each week, and through chanting verses and diffusing the divine fragrances enliven heart and soul  AB12026

Fourth, because the Sunday School is of great value: it is very good and they must attend it with joy and fragrance and with enthusiasm.  ABU2803

This is a Baha'i house. Every time such a house or meeting place is founded it becomes one of the greatest aids to the general development of the town and country to which it belongs.  ABU0350

If they cannot arrange to go every Sunday, they must go every other Sunday, if not every other Sunday then once a month. But they must come together and must keep up the Sunday School.   ABU3441

They associate with one another in perfect unity and accord, and meet in gatherings with utmost love and fellowship. Each is a candle of the assembly and a sweet-speaking parrot; they are the nightingales of divine meanings in the garden of God and the trees of the stream of knowledge in utmost delicacy and true freshness.   AB00201

You must conduct your meetings with great dignity and treat with honor those who come to them. Should there be any strangers, treat them with perfect friendship and love. All must feel perfect at home, and especially, free to ask questions. In fact, you must conduct these meeting that they become sociable and charming. You must always read the Words of Baha'o'llah, from the Ighan. In your meetings there must always be shown respect for one another and for the Cause of GOD.   ABU0811


this gathering caused the fire of love to surge forth and brought about fellowship, unity, joy and fragrance   AB12119

That home which turneth into the nest and shelter of the birds of the garden of Divine Unity, and where the nightingale of praise and utterance singeth upon the branches, extolling the Desired One and proclaiming the Cause of the Beloved, is as the highest paradise and the heavenly garden of the realms above. AB12833
 
