
I hope that you may become baptized with the Fire of the Love of God and the Water of the Holy Spirit, and that each of you may become a Divine Farmer and sow in the farm of humanity the seeds of reality, irrigating them with the Waters of the Teachings of Baha'u'llah, so that the Light of Truth may illumine that country.   AB07458

The Baptism of the Christians as practiced today is not the teachings of Christ.   ABU2605

The people have not understood the meaning of baptism. In one place in the Gospels it is commanded that one must be baptized by water and spirit, and also by fire, and from these commands we can understand that the meaning is spiritual and not material. The baptism of Christians as practiced today is not the teachings of Christ! The Christians in the beginning used to baptize as a symbol of the purification of the spirit.  ABU1107



This is possible only through baptism by the Holy Spirit.  ABU1421

baptized thee with the water of life and with the fire of the love of God   AB06454

Everyone receives a new baptism and attains to the station of the new birth.  ABU2016

Be thou baptized with the spirit of God, the fire of His love, and the water of life  AB07020

Those in attendance were baptized with the divine spirit and the fire of the love of God.  ABU3707

strive until thou art completely reborn from the world of nature and baptized with the Holy Spirit  AB12296

receive baptism through the Holy Spirit, seek baptism through the fire of the love of God and the water of life.  ABU2239

I beg of God that thou mayest be baptized by the baptism of BAHA'O'LLAH and become free from all the stains of the mortal world  AB09736

We are told in the Bible of the Baptism of Water and of the Spirit, and also of the Baptism of Spirit and of Fire, and these are Three Baptisms.   ABU3508

Except a man be born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of Heaven...He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire  ABU0984

If thou shouldst reach this lofty station thou shalt be baptised with the water of the knowledge of God, with the fire of the love of God and with the spirit of divine bounty  AB04410

Praise be to God that thou hast experienced the second birth from the darkness of the world of nature and hast been baptized with the fire of love, the water of life, and the breathings of the Holy Spirit.  AB12268

The performance of baptismal celebration would cleanse the body, but the spirit hath no share; but the divine teachings and the exhortations of the Beauty of ABHA will baptize the soul. This is the real baptism.   AB03738

The New Birth is realized in this Kingdom when we become characterized by the characteristics of God, when His Name and attributes become our names and attributes. The New Birth is when the imperfections by which we are surrounded are wholly overcome and we are completely purified from all the evil of the world.  ABU0407

The first signifies the condition when the soul receives the teachings of the knowledge of God. The second, when the soul receives the spirit; when the soul receives this baptism the spirit speaks through him, he has no need to be taught of men or to ask questions, because the holy spirit will enlighten and teach him.  ABU1576

The people of Baha are as thou hast stated - they must become a new creation, that is to say, they must receive a second birth, even as Christ said. The first birth was from the mother's womb; the second birth is from the womb of nature. Just as before birth from the mother's womb one had no knowledge of this natural world, likewise until one is born from the womb of nature, one can have no knowledge of the Kingdom.  AB12285

The people have not understood the meaning of baptism. In one place in the Gospels it is commanded that one must be baptized by water and spirit, and also by fire, and from these commands we can understand that the meaning is spiritual and not material. The baptism of Christians as practiced today is not the teachings of Christ! The Christians in the beginning used to baptize as a symbol of the purification of the spirit.  ABU1107

The essence of baptism is purification by repentance. John admonished and exhorted the people, caused them to repent, and then baptized them. It is evident then that this purification is a symbol of repentance from all sin, as though one were saying: O God! Just as my body has been cleansed and purified from material defilements, so cleanse and purify my spirit from the defilements of the world of nature, which are unworthy of Thy divine threshold.  AB00674

For you I want this: that you be illumined by the divine light so that you may uncover the mysteries of reality, gain an eye to witness the Most Glorious Kingdom, acquire a hearing ear to hear the heavenly call, receive baptism through the Holy Spirit, seek baptism through the fire of the love of God and the water of life.  ABU2239

When the divine call was raised from the Kingdom of Eternity and reached the ear of the wise ones, the fire of the love of God did kindle both their soul and conscience and they did rejoice through the breeze wafting from the meadows of the Kingdom of God and gained life anew and were baptised by the fire the love of God and the spirit of life.   AB05757

