In flower-spangled meadows hath the divine springtime pitched its tents, and the spiritual are inhaling sweet scents from the Sheba of the spirit, carried their way by the east wind. Now doth the mystic nightingale carol its odes, and buds of inner meaning are bursting into blossoms delicate and fair.  AB00065

Know the value of these days, for union is not always possible. The nightingale singeth only in spring and crieth not until it seeth the rose. The time cometh when the divine nightingale ceaseth from mentioning meanings and taketh flight to the spiritual branch and settleth in the divine invisible rose gardens.  BH03210

As there are four seasons in this material world, so it is in the spiritual world. When the divine spring is over and the heavenly bounty ceases, the trees of being lie dormant. Lifelessness and stillness prevail over the world of man. People become spiritless and withered. Autumn and winter set in. There exists no flower or greenery, no cheerfulness or mirth, no happiness or joy. Then the spiritual spring spreads its tent once more. The gardens of the hearts regain their freshness, charm and verdure. The buds of knowledge open and the anemones of reality appear. The world of man becomes another world, This is the divine law and is a requirement of the world of creation. This is the cause of the appearance of the many Manifestations of God.  ABU2228

In this springtime of the All-Merciful, when the Divine Tree of Will hath been adorned with wondrous fruits of knowledge  BH11024

The black earth is becoming a verdant garden; the deserts and mountains are teeming with red flowers; from the borders of the wilderness the tall grasses are standing like advance guards before the cypress and jessamine trees; while the birds are singing among the rose branches like the angels in the highest heavens, announcing the glad-tidings of the approach of that spiritual spring, and the sweet music of their voices is causing the real essence of all things to move and quiver.  AB02755

Soon shall we see the signs of the coming of the spring upon the mountains and on the plains. When the spring comes, God shows a great wisdom in its appearance. God has a special purpose in each Spring-time. The world will be renewed; the dead ground will be made alive; the fields and meadows will be adorned with new beauty; the base trees will become green and fresh, bringing forth their wealth of blossoms and flowers; different kinds of fruit will come; birds and all animals will appear; all souls who possess the thrill of life will be refreshed, renewed.  ABU1150

In this material world, time has changing cycles and place is subject to varying conditions. Seasons follow one another and individuals progress, regress, and develop. At one point it is springtime and at another the autumn season; at one point it is summer and at another it is winter. The vernal season has rain-laden clouds and musk-scented breezes, life-giving zephyrs and perfectly mild weather. The rain falls, the sun shines, the reviving winds blow, the world is renewed, and the breath of life reveals itself in plant, animal and man alike. Earthly beings pass from one condition to another. All things are clothed with a new vesture: the black earth is swathed in abundant grass, mountains and plains don an emerald-green robe, trees bear leaves and blossoms, gardens bring forth flowers and sweet herbs, the world becomes another world, and all creation is imbued with a new life.  AB00086

"Consider that the last year's springtime is past and all that thou mayest say or hear (about it) is but a story (or narrative); but appreciate thou this New Year's Spring--which is this present time-hath pitched its tent with the utmost magnificence in the field and plain and hath made the mountain and desert verdant and fresh, hath made the trees to appear pure and fresh, blooming with flowers and blossoms through the vernal bounty and caused them to bring forth pure fruits."  AB01074

Therefore we may liken the present state of the world to the winter but the spring, Ah yes! the spring is coming, it is bound to come.  ABU0621

Consider, for example, how the sun shines in spring, how the clouds pour down their rain and the breeze blows but though the plants may grow through gifts such as these, they are unaware of their privilege and thus do not express delight and joy.   AB06196

During this vernal season all creation is renewed - the meadows and orchards, the verdant fields and gardens are revived, and that which had withered is restored to freshness and life. What grace, what splendor, what radiance and what spiritual potency are manifest!  ABU1261

O loved ones of God! The divine Faith is in its youth, and the wondrous Cause is in the springtime of a new age. This is the beginning of the first cycle, and this century is the chosen century of the one true God. The horizons of contingent being are illumined by the manifestations of the Sun at the zenith of divine knowledge, and the East and West of the world are perfumed and made fragrant by holy and sanctified breezes. The countenance of the new creation appears with utmost beauty and grace, and the temple of the wondrous Cause stands in the fullness of might and freshness. AB00011

Today the springtime of the All-Merciful has appeared, and the new saplings that were planted by the divine hand of training in the paradise of oneness have become manifest and visible with their ripe fruits and delicate leaves   BH06362

Dost thou not observe how the bounty of the spring rain quickens the black earth, makes the withered tree green and beautiful, nay rather, makes the pure dust the envy of the celestial sphere?  AB08778

The gardens of divine unity have become verdant and flourishing, and the hills and plains and wilderness and valleys of existence have been adorned with the flowers of new bounty and wondrous grace  AB05264

It is the day of the wedding feast, the springtime. After this will come the days of summer, autumn and winter.  ABU3466

The appearance of the Manifestations of God is like spring - naturally spring does not remain permanent and eternal.  ABU2747

The veils have been rent asunder, the gleaming rays of mysteries have shone forth, the lights have encompassed all, the seasons and the night and day have become balanced, the springtime of the righteous hath come, the garden of the free hath been adorned, the fountains of sacrifice have overflowed, and the believers are in joy and gladness, might and renown. AB11070

The springtime has come, and the lofty clouds have poured down their copious rain upon both noble and lowly alike. The breezes of God have wafted over the gardens of earth and heaven with a new spirit, and the heat of the Sun of Truth has intensified upon every goodly plant and graceful tree growing in blessed soil from every clime.  AB09004

the spring clouds have poured forth their sweet showers, the vernal season has transformed the universe into a paradise!   AB05157

The divine springtime hath arrived and the April showers of the mercy of the All-Merciful have poured down  AB05264

This is the outpouring of the wonderful and new springtime and the falling of the showers of the Bounty of the Most Great Lord!  AB05983

The divine springtime has arrived, the season of the flower garden has come, and the time for strolling in the rose garden has begun.  AB09370

This is the Day of rejoicing for the Truth hath been made manifest. His call hath been raised. The world is illumined and adorned with its light.  AB07845

In the springtime of youth and the prime of life, whosoever attaineth unto the love of God is accounted among the denizens of the most exalted Paradise.  BH09436

O divine friends! This is the spiritual springtime and the divine spring season. This is the first century of the Ancient Beauty and the great cycle of the Greatest Name   AB00979

What regret and remorse, that in this spiritual springtime thou hast not adorned thyself with the wondrous attire, nor inhaled the sweet fragrances from the paradise of inner meanings.  BH00004

the breezes of the divine springtime have made meadow and plain verdant and flourishing, and the all-encompassing grace of the Celestial Beauty hath adorned the flower garden and rose bower  AB07608

That region and territory will soon become a garden of mysteries, and that land will become a supreme paradise. That country will become illumined and that realm will become a heaven of delight.  AB09328

Whatsoever is latent in the innermost of this holy cycle, shall gradually appear and be made manifest, for now is but the beginning of its growth and the dayspring of the revelation of its signs.  AB08712

The divine springtime hath pitched its pavilions with infinite majesty! The cloud of mercy is pouring down its rain! The Orb of bounty is radiating its splendor! The breeze of eternal life is wafting!  AB09821

The progress of the Cause is like unto the coming of the spring and its early signs. Suddenly one sees here a tree is putting forth leaves, another bush is being adorned with roses, the nightingales are singing and the meadows are green.   ABU1943

The dawn of hope broke. The divine light shone forth. The Sun of Truth blazed with intense heat, and the life-giving breeze of the spiritual springtime blew. The earth of souls was stirred and the flowers of realities and meanings sprouted forth.  AB02633

In this radiant century and merciful age the ears are open, hearts awakened, eyes seeing, consciences stirred. The age of estrangement has passed. The century of friendship has arrived. The dark hours have disappeared and the Orb of Unity has dawned.  AB09733

Winter was ended - Spring appeared. The meadows and prairies became verdant and all the trees were adorned with blossoms - multicolored roses and hyacinths perfumed the air... The surface of the earth was transformed -This world became the mirror of the Kingdom.  ABU0206

It is New Year; that is to say, the rounding of the cycle of the year. A year is the expression of a cycle (of the sun); but now is the beginning of a cycle of Reality, a New Cycle, a New Age, a New Century, a New Time and a New Year. Therefore it is very Blessed.  AB02184

The spiritual springtime has made the world fresh and new, and the divine springtide has caused the garden of inner meanings to flourish and become adorned with flowers and blossoms. The human saplings in the divine garden have attained infinite delicacy and freshness.  AB11322

The Divine springtime hath come, and the Day-Star of the heavenly realm hath dawned. The life-giving breezes of Farvardin are blowing, and the musk-laden sweet savours of the Beloved are wafting. The Divine vernal showers are descending, and the resplendent radiance of the Day Star of His Majestic righteousness is shining forth.  AB02550

The spring breeze and the clouds of March renew the outer world by God's command, exalted be His glory. However, today a different decree has come and a different command. The world of reality has been adorned by the breezes of the divine spring and the rain-clouds of God's wondrous bounty. The nightingales of divine knowledge warble upon the branches.  BH00812

O ye heedless ones, awaken! For the fragrances from the rose-garden of Abha are wafting, and the breezes from the gardens of the Supreme Concourse are blowing. The ancient lights are shining forth in this darksome night, the outpourings of the Most Great Unity are descending from the clouds of bounty, and the waves of the Most Great Sea are surging upon the shores of humanity.  AB11130

The sight of the flowering plants in a springtime garden is delightful. The new-grown herbs shed abroad their pungent fragrances, each blossom charms the eye with its particular beauty, while the leaves and fruit are speedily burgeoning. And when people find their way into the garden and gaze on the beauty of the flowers, they inhale the perfume, their souls are exhilarated and their hearts are solaced.  AB04105

It is the season of the divine springtime and the breezes of grace and supreme bounty are stirring, and the vernal clouds of greatest mercy are pouring forth their rain, and the rays of the Sun of Truth are shining, and the trees of existence are attaining to new garments, and the gardens of beings and created things are displaying all manner of adornments through the bounty and gifts of this spiritual spring   AB05161

The day will surely come when the Nightingale of Paradise will have winged its flight away from its earthly abode unto its heavenly nest. Then will its melody be heard no more, and the beauty of the rose cease to shine. Seize the time, therefore, ere the glory of the divine springtime hath spent itself, and the Bird of Eternity ceased to warble its melody, that thy inner hearing may not be deprived of hearkening unto its call.  BH00002

Then the bright dawn rose, and there came tidings of great joy. The divine springtime was here, pitching its tents in this contingent world, so that all creation leapt and danced. The withered earth brought forth immortal blooms, the dead dust woke to everlasting life. Then came forth flowers of mystic learning, and, bespeaking the knowledge of God, fresh greenery from the ground. The contingent world displayed God's bounteous gifts, the visible world reflecting the glories of realms that were hidden from sight.  AB00034

Through the life of mercy hast Thou revived these regions and domains. Thus have the meadows been adorned, the fountains made to flow, and the groves embellished through a ceaseless downpour from the clouds of grace and bounty. From the wafting breeze of Thy loving-kindness hath come a gentle wind, vivifying to souls and hearts. The lands have turned green, the trees have brought forth leaves, flowers have been made to bloom, fruits have ripened, the anemones of inner reality have opened wide, birds have broken into song, and eyes have been gladdened by beholding these signs.  AB01450

At this time when favorable winds are blowing from the direction of divine favor and the breezes of the Abha Kingdom are wafting, if the ship of being does not reach the shore of its goal, in what time will it find the haven of salvation? And if man does not find wealth and prosperity from this endless treasure, in what age will he become prosperous and see perpetual riches? And if the sapling of hope does not become verdant and flourishing through the merciful breezes in this glorious age, in this spiritual springtime, and if it does not receive freshness and grace from the April showers of bounty, in what season will it grow tender leaves, adorn the garden's expanse with blossoms, and yield fresh fruits?  AB05867

He is the Divine Spring which comes after the long winter of death and inaction. The Wisdom of God is seen in His Coming. He adorns the soul of man with new Life, Divine Attributes, and higher Spiritual qualities. By this the soul is enlightened, illumined.  ABU1273

Praise be to God! The dark and gloomy winter hath passed and the springtide of divine mercy hath adorned the world in a new raiment.  BH08548

As in the physical world there are four seasons, so in the realm of religion there is the season of heavenly and spiritual springtime.  ABU2227

There are two equinoxes, the vernal (Aries) and the autumnal (Libra). Before this vernal season, the earth, mountains, and gardens are as dead; this season brings life.   ABU2883

In the winter season, the cold, the storms, the rain come--but wait until spring and then all is gladness. God will, if He wishes, always let the spring follow the dreary winter.  ABU1236

Naw-Ruz is the day when the world-illumining Sun of the eternal realm shone forth in the heaven of glory, bestowed abundant radiance, and provided guidance. It was this life-giving springtime that made the withered trees fresh and alive.  AB10894


The day of the Manifestation of God is the divine and spiritual springtime when the trees of human souls become green and flourishing, new beauty and freshness are brought to the gardens of the hearts and new inspiration and fresh bounties are bestowed.  ABU0425

After the coming of the spiritual springtime, the falling of the vernal showers, the shining of the Sun of Reality, the blowing of the breezes of perfection, all phenomena become imbued with the life of a new creation and are reformed in the process of a new genesis.  ABU0079

At this moment the sun appears at the meridian and the day and night are equal. Until today the north pole has been in darkness. This sacred day when the sun illumines equally the whole earth is called the equinox and the equinox is the symbol of the divine messenger.  ABU0881

In this divine season and merciful springtime you have been gathered together and become renowned. Therefore, through God's aid, you must become wholly blossoming and manifest among the people with the goodly fruits of divine characteristics, becoming renowned thereby.  AB09149

Abdul Baha then gave an illustration of the four successive seasons, - spring, summer, autumn, and winter, and said that no man of intelligence would venture to state that because the spring of last year has come once that it is sufficient for all time, and we do not need another spring  ABU1928

The divine springtime hath arrived, the morn of hope hath dawned, and the breezes from the direction of God's favor have blown. Every tree that was fresh and verdant hath brought forth blossoms and leaves, while every tree that was dry and withered remained deprived of this heavenly bounty.  AB07692

The outward spring, which is charged with the nurturing of all visible things by the command of the Creator of Names, appeareth but once a year, and likewise the spiritual spring, which traineth spirits and illumined hearts and bestoweth eternal and everlasting life, doth appear but once in a thousand years or more   BH00507


It is like the spring: when it arrives it transports the world from one condition to another. For at the advent of springtide the black earth, the fields and the meadows become green and verdant, flowers and sweet-scented herbs of every kind spring forth, trees are endowed with a new life, wondrous fruits are produced, and a new cycle is inaugurated.   AB00266

This period of time is the Promised Age, the assembling of the human race to the Resurrection Day and now is the great Day of Judgement. Soon the whole world, as in springtime, will change its garb. The turning and falling of the autumn leaves is past; the bleakness of the wintertime is over. The new year hath appeared and the spiritual springtime is at hand.  AB02755

The luminous celestial Sun has its rising and setting, and because of this the universe has its night and day, its springtime and autumn, its summer and winter seasons. This cycle is eternal and, being inherent to the world of existence, knows neither change nor alteration. When springtime arrives, the Sun bestows a new bounty, its heat and rays shine forth, April clouds pour down rain, and life-giving breezes blow. The clouds weep and meadows smile, the spring breeze becomes musk-laden, and plain and mountain become flowering gardens. The vernal equinox manifests, the world finds renewed spirit, and a new resurrection takes place.  ABU0215

The weeping of the clouds of Bahman (January) is followed by the laughter of rose gardens and meadows, and greenery and freshness and blossoms and flowers and fragrant herbs appear in succession... For Bahman and Isfand (February-March) lead to the pleasing Farvardin, when the bounties of the spiritual springtime appear and the outpourings of the All-Merciful are unveiled  AB08380

This time of the world may be likened to the equinoctial in the annual cycle. For, verily, this is the spring season of God... At the time of the vernal equinox in the material world a wonderful vibrant energy and new life-quickening is observed everywhere in the vegetable kingdom; the animal and human kingdoms are resuscitated and move forward with a new impulse. The whole world is born anew, resurrected... Likewise, the spiritual bounty and springtime of God quicken the world of humanity with a new animus and vivification.  ABU0373
