
But let us talk about our own war. Our Grand Army consists of the invisible angels of the Supreme Concourse; our swords are the swords of light; our armaments are the invincible armaments of heaven.   ABU1388

God willing, in the fields of divine victory ye should be as pealing thunder and as consuming fire, and in the manifestations of His grace and mercy ye should be as the water of heavenly bounty and as radiant verses, clear and evident.  BH11243

The hosts of the sacred Concourse are engaged in battle and conquest, and the armies of the heaven of oneness are advancing and entering. He conquers the cities of hearts and renders the fortresses and strongholds of souls opened and illumined.  AB07451

By thy life! The company of the angels of the Abha Kingdom are charging forth, and the Lord of Hosts is at war with the opposing factions... God shall raise up souls whose eyes are like flames, whose tongues are like sharp swords, and whose feet are of iron   AB03059

The armies of physical bodies may be like fierce lions, their purpose is to destroy foundations and bring death to humanity. But the armies of faith and mystical knowledge bestow life upon souls and consciousness, becoming the cup of life and tasting the honey of salvation.  AB09395

Therefore preserve me, O Lord, in my journey from Thee to all the manifestations of Thy creation, until all returns to Thee from before me and behind me, from my right and my left, from above my head and beneath my feet, from every direction and from all that is attributed to me  BB00011

The invincible Hosts of divine Confirmations are standing in battle array upon the plain of the Kingdom of Abha, ready to rush to the assistance of any soul who steps upon the arena of service. This Army of God knows no defeat, and those who are enlisted in it will be reinforced by the invincible powers.  AB10302

"Your war confers Life; their war brings death. Your war is the cause of the illumination of all mankind; their war means the breaking and darkness of hearts. Your war means victory upon victory; their war is defeat upon defeat. Your war is the means of construction; their war is the origin of destruction."  ABU1806

O peoples of the earth! Haste ye to do the pleasure of God, and war ye valiantly, as it behooveth you to war, for the sake of proclaiming His resistless and immovable Cause. We have decreed that war shall be waged in the path of God with the armies of wisdom and utterance, and of a goodly character and praiseworthy deeds.  BH00005

However when the hosts of divine inspirations overcome and vanquish doubts, they so thoroughly scatter and disperse the armies of vain imaginings that no trace remains...Physical warfare has no glory and yields no fruit or result. For a few days it is mentioned, but after a short time the victor becomes the vanquished and the conqueror becomes the conquered.  AB06227

Consider how the hosts of Christ were few in number, but because they were supported by the celestial army, these few achieved a mighty victory over all parties. Thus it became clear that were it not for spiritual power, these few would have been defeated, but each soul was supported by the waves upon waves of the All-Merciful's hosts. Therefore, they triumphed over all the ranks of the world on the battlefield - that is, a spiritual battle, not with sword and spear of iron, for bloodshed and savagery are destructive to the human world.   ABU0796
At such a time thou must array the spiritual hosts for battle and, with the sword of proof, conquer the hearts.  AB12822
 
