To a gentleman who was questioning him, he remarked "The beginnings of all great religions were pure; but priests, taking possession of the minds of the people, filled them with dogmas and superstitions, so that religion became gradually corrupt. I come to teach no new religion. 'My only desire is, through the blessing of God, to show the road to the Great Light." Touching the gentleman gently on his shoulder, as a loving father might touch a son, he went on to say, "I am no Prophet, only a man like yourself." ABU1113

I am serving God. I am the servant of God. I give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, the power of speech to the mute and knowledge to the ignorant. I raise the dead, I deliver those who are in darkness and guide them into the realm of Light. I make the poor rich and the weak powerful. I satisfy the hungry ones with the Bread of life and allay the thirst of the thirsty ones with the pure Water of Immortality. This is my work.   ABU3030

'Abdu'l-Baha is a drop while the Most Great Name is an ocean. When you praise the ocean it encompasses the drop as well.   AB06123


This Servant so far has not called Himself the Greatest Branch, but Abdu'l-Baha. At most, on a rare occasion, even more exceptional than rare, has the Son of Baha been revealed by His pen. This also has been due to profound mysteries, otherwise, I consider Myself as the Servant of His servants, and My position, words and deeds attest to this matter.   AB00339

Do you know how I administer this Faith?  I pull he sails of the ship firmly and fasten the ropes tight. I locate my destination and then by the power of My will I hold the wheel and head out. No matter how strong the storm, no matter how dangerous the threat to the safety of the ship, I do not change course. I do not become agitated or disheartened; I persevere until I reach my goal. If I were to hesitate or change direction at the sight of every danger, the Ark of the Cause of God would surely fail to reach its destination.   ABU2344

If there is any difference between them let them turn to the verses of the perspicuous Books of Revelation. If there is any doubt occasioned in understanding the meaning of the Book let them turn to the Interpreter of those texts so that not even the slightest difference may occur in their beliefs, their views, their thoughts, their words, and attitudes, so that all may return to primal unity which is none other than the primal will of God.   AB01018

We are all apt to make mistakes. We make mistakes every day; and to speak about the Covenant and to speak about violation, is to remind us not to make such mistakes. This is important to all of us, and we must all be mindful always of Abdul-Baha's words, that they have to be obeyed to the letter. That preserves the unity, and does away with all mistakes.   ABU3179

'Abdu'l-Baha is the Expounder of the Word, not the law-giver. 'Abdu'l-Baha has explained the divine law - whoso wishes may accept it, and whoso wishes not need not accept it. In any case, it is incumbent upon us to explain God's law and interpret the meaning of the concise verses. As for ordinances not mentioned in the Book, these all revert to the House of Justice, not to 'Abdu'l-Baha, for He is the Interpreter of what is mentioned in the Book, not the Author of unrevealed laws.  AB01242

Be not deceived by patched-together phrases and misleading flattery. The Blessed Beauty with His Most Exalted Pen and in the decisive text of the Book of the Covenant wrote and took a covenant first from the Branches and Afnans and relatives, and then from all the friends, that all should turn to the Center of the Covenant. And in clear terms in the Kitab-i-Aqdas He states: "When the Mystic Dove will have winged its flight from its Sanctuary of Praise and sought its far-off goal, its hidden habitation, refer ye whatsoever ye understand not in the Book to Him Who hath branched from this mighty Stock." And likewise He states: "When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My Revelation is ended, turn your faces towards Him Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root." And the Most Exalted Pen in clear terms wrote in the Book of the Covenant that the intention of these two blessed verses is the Most Great Branch. And regarding the center of violation, He wrote in the Tablets that if he should deviate for a moment from the shadow of the Cause, he is cast out. Now one must either hold fast to the Center of the Covenant, or say (God forbid) that the Blessed Beauty erred and was not knowing and was not aware, and therefore wrongly commanded all to turn to the Center of the Covenant and appointed Him as the Interpreter of the Book - and this was a pure error and sheer ignorance. God forbid such a thought! In no previous Dispensation was there a Book of the Covenant, nor was it written by the Most Exalted Pen, nor was it in such clear terms.  AB00426

According to the clear text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas and other Tablets the Center of the Covenant is the Remover of all the difficulties for He is the Interpreter of the Book. Not one soul has the right to say and word on his own recount or explain anything or elucidate the text of the Book, whether in public or private.  AB01850

Everyone who expresses a word not from the texts sows discord among the believers. The Blessed Beauty entered into this Covenant for obedience; that is, that no one should utter a word from his own self or cause any conflict. If it were not so, everyone would open a way for himself and expound the Words of God in his own manner.  ABU1745

"By the explicit text of the Most Holy Book and the clear verses of the Book of the Covenant, this servant and all faithful, assured, steadfast and firm believers in God's Covenant must not transgress beyond the clear statement of this servant and the evident interpretation of this humble one. Whoever transgresses has followed his own opinion."   AB00851

As for differences in questions, the pen of the Center of the Covenant is the solver of difficulties. They must not allow questions to lead to dispute and argument. Rather they should ask immediately to receive an immediate answer. This is the truth. Contention and dispute are completely forbidden - by the explicit divine text both sides are deprived.  AB01697

Glory be to God! The appointed and designated Interpreter is forsaken while children have become commentators, knowers and interpreters of the Tablets. The Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) was aware and knew best when He made the matter so firm and the Cause so strong. From the dawn of the Manifestation, nay in the Torah, Gospel and Psalms, nay in the Scrolls of Abraham, He mentioned this mighty Covenant and in all Tablets and Scriptures praised those who held fast to it and clung to it, and extolled the firm and steadfast ones. Now, despite the clear and designated Interpreter, these nouveaux innovators interpret the word "turn ye" in different contradictory ways, until finally they actually interpret "turning" as rejection, transgression and error. Such is the extent of their knowledge. Leave them to their vain imaginings. Verily thy Lord is independent of all worlds. And the Glory be upon you both. Even more strange is that this servant has never commanded anyone or required anyone to establish degrees for "turn ye" such that doubts would arise and ambiguous verses would be interpreted. I have merely guided all to diffuse the divine fragrances and prohibited discord which destroys the edifice of God. If this statement is not acceptable, they know best. I have no objection to anyone. AB01066

I am the Expounder of the Words revealed by the Blessed Beauty. I have been expressly appointed by the All-Glorious Pen. It is incumbent upon everyone to bear allegiance to Me. All matters must be referred to the Interpreter.   ABU3313

Some friends asked about the matter of singing and chanting in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar: 'Abdu'l-Baha said that the recitation of the Holy Writings and prayers, whether in verse or prose, should be performed by singing and chanting. "However," he added, "I do not interfere in such matters that have not been explicitly revealed in the Text. Whatsoever the Universal House of Justice may prescribe at any time, the same shall be the accepted criterion." ABU3315

Therefore, in every important matter that concerns all, the friends of God must seek permission and request authorization, and whatever issues from the Pen of the Covenant they must carry out.  AB01486


For His Most Holy Book is the sole reference, and the Book of the Covenant, traced by the Most Exalted Pen, is the crushing proof against every obdurate one, and the Command set forth in these two cannot be opposed by any of the writings and tablets.  AB00307

No! Not to me, but to the Glory of God (Baha'u'llah) whose Light I reflect.  ABU3584

Hold fast to the Covenant which hath emanated from the Supreme Pen and which is scintillating with the light of the Orb of the Horizons. Know thou verily, BAHA'O'LLAH is the Promised One in all the Books and Tablets, and verily, this servant, is the herald of the Kingdom of God. AB02800

after the Ascension He raised high the Standard of the Covenant in the shade of the Tree of Life and appointed the Center of the Covenant  AB09575

Today is the auspicious day of the Covenant and the time of the dawning and shining forth of the Sun of the Covenant, the Luminary of the horizons   AB06600

O servant in attendance! God created thee and provided for thee and nurtured thee and made thee a servant to His Own Self, that thou mayest give thanks unto thy Lord, the All-Bountiful. He hath lavished His favors upon thee as a grace from His presence, for He is the All-Bounteous, the Forgiving, the Merciful. Know thou moreover that God hath preferred the Two Branches above all My brothers and their sons, and above thee and above those who have believed in Him and in His manifest Book. Hold fast to the hem of faithfulness with the hands of submission and contentment. BH07391

I AM THE COVENANT, appointed by Baha'u'llah. And no one can refute His Word. This is the Testament of Baha'u'llah. You will find it in the Holy Book of Aqdas.   ABU3266

Concerning thy question about the blessed verse in the Book of the Covenant: This blessed verse of the Book of the Covenant is related to the blessed verse of the Furqan  AB06691

The point is that the Blessed Beauty has no like or peer, He is unique in His essence and sanctified and holy in His attributes. I am under His shadow and a servant at His Threshold.  AB00465

the sincere belief of 'Abdu'l-Baha is this: that the Primal Point, His Holiness the Exalted One - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - is the Manifestation of Supreme Lordship and the Herald of the Beauty of Abha and the Sun of Truth and the Essence of Singleness and the Revelation of Divinity, the Most Great Luminary of the higher world, the Beauty of Abha, and 'Abdu'l-Baha is the weak, mortal servant of those two peerless Stars. This is the essence of my reality, the substance of my being, and the very nature of my identity. And whosoever does not believe this has wandered in the wilderness of vain imaginings. O loved ones of God! What is the belief of this servant must be believed by all, and they must not engage in any interpretation or explanation whatsoever. Whatever is explicitly stated should be what is believed, so that the mighty stronghold of the Cause of God may be protected from the calamity of disagreement and all may become of one mind, one thought, and one belief. AB02932

What is the belief of this servant must be believed by all, and they must not engage in any interpretation or explanation whatsoever. Whatever is explicitly stated should be what is believed, so that the mighty stronghold of the Cause of God may be protected from the calamity of disagreement and all may become of one mind, one thought, and one belief.   AB02932

One would say, for instance, 'As I have the power of the Holy Spirit, I have a greater capacity for understanding.' Others, even these old ladies, would at once retort, 'We, too, have the power of the Holy Spirit.' The power of the Holy Spirit is limited to the Blessed Beauty and the interpretation thereof to none but me.  ABU1745


In His prayers Baha'u'llah also said, "O God! Whosoever violates My Covenant, O God, humiliate him. Verily, whosoever violates My Covenant, O God, erase and efface him." In all His Tablets, among which is the Tablet of the Branch, He has mentioned and explained the attributes and qualities of the Personage to Whom He referred in the Book of His Covenant.  ABU0093

each one making statements according to their own understanding and disposition. However, all must forget their own understanding and conception, and accept whatever flows from this Pen without interpretation or explanation   AB01089

Inasmuch as there was no appointed explainer of the Book of Christ, everyone made the claim to authority, saying, "This is the true pathway and others are not." To ward off such dissensions as these and prevent any person from creating a division or sect the Blessed Perfection, Baha'u'llah, appointed a central authoritative Personage, declaring Him to be the expounder of the Book.  ABU0412

That which issues from my lips and that which is written with my pen is the Reality.   ABU2337

'There is only one Master -- the Most Great Branch, He around Whom all names revolve.'  BHU0034

The Blessed Perfection has left nothing undone. What He ordained can never be set aside.   ABU2880

None hath any place in the Cause of God except after permission from this existing station.  AB03454

"No, I do not know everything. But when I need to know something, it is pictured before Me."  ABU3547

The Day Star of glad-tidings has dawned, inasmuch as the branches have been joined with the Blessed Tree, and in the mention of the Tree and its branches are signs for those who possess understanding.  BH11756

O thou who testeth Abdu'l-Baha! Thou possesseth no right to test a supplicating servant unto God.   AB05969

the condition is that thou shouldst not allow any word regarding 'Abdu'l-Baha except pure servitude  AB03117

The first servant of the friends of God is 'Abdu'l-Baha, and this is an endless crown of sovereignty.   AB07491


If 'Abdu'l-Baha does not act according to the Law of God, how can He guide anyone to obey the religion of God?  AB12272

Firmness in Covenant means love and obedience to the Command of Abdul-Baha.  AB11057

Abdu'l-Baha seeks neither name nor fame in this world, and in this world anonymity is better and more pleasant.  AB05225

When 'Abdu'l-Baha writes tablets, he is calling the souls to a station which they are potentially able to attain.  ABU3270

As for my station, it is servitude to the Most Glorious Beauty. I would not exchange this servitude for any station   AB04805

No one is worthy to test 'Abdu'l-Baha, for such a test would itself become the cause of that person's own downfall.   AB03701

Say to Mashhadi Iskandar that 'Abdu'l-Baha cannot be contained in the balance of tests, nor is He deserving of tests.  AB02886

'Abdu'l-Baha is the servant of the servants of Baha. Whoever says otherwise belongs to the people of error and passion   AB02137

Baha'u'llah is the root, I am the Branch. The root of the tree does not bear fruit. The fruit is found upon the branches.   ABU3581

"Observe what confirmations have reached the Lamp of the Covenant from the Abha Kingdom, such that all eyes are astounded."   AB02058

If the Branch sprung from the Ancient Root - who is explicitly designated in the Mighty Text and clearly appointed in the Perspicuous Book and who, by the decisive command of God and the explicit text of the Testament of the All-Merciful, is to be obeyed and referred to by all - is counted as the chief of the polytheists, while all the branches, leaves, kindred and beloved ones are commanded to turn to him and look to him, would there remain any mention, respect or existence for anyone else? No, by God!  AB00488

"None may interpret otherwise, and this is the manifest truth. O thou who proclaimeth with evident proof the interpreted words!"   AB00851

The Ancient Beauty and the Greatest Name nourished this servant with the milk of servitude and raised him in the embrace of servitude.  AB00655


This servant's name is 'Abdu'l-Baha, and his title and descriptions and attributes are those of 'Abdu'l-Baha, and nothing else is ever permissible.   AB03261

My name, Abdul-Baha, means the servant of God; my heart is the Servant of Baha, and my spirit is the Servant of Baha, and rejoices only in this name.   ABU1181

Inform my brother that I [Abdu'l-Baha] am not `Ali, nor is he [Mirza Muhammad 'Ali] `Umar. I am much greater than `Ali and he is much lesser than `Umar.  ABU3742

While praise be to God, 'Abdu'l-Baha is far from both mentions and both stations, holding fast only to servitude at the Sacred Threshold and nothing else.   AB04799

O joyful tidings! This is the Youth of the Covenant, whom his brothers have cast into the pit of calumny and sold for a paltry price, a few counted dirhams.  AB08428


This is my greatest glory and honor, and my ultimate hope and the extremity of my desire, and the essence of my aspiration and the reality of my purpose and aim.  AB03503

when Huquq is given Abdu'l Baha will ascertain how much of it is for the Mashriq'u'l Adhkar, how much for teaching and how much for the needy, etc.  ABU0849

'Abdu'l-Baha is the weak, mortal servant of those two peerless Stars. This is the essence of my reality, the substance of my being, and the very nature of my identity.   AB02932

According to the clear text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas and other Tablets the Center of the Covenant is the Remover of all the difficulties for He is the Interpreter of the Book.  AB01850

"His diciples followed the teachings of His Holiness but not completely. But I always follow the teachings because the Blessed Beauty Says: 'Ye must be a servant to all.'"  ABU1065


Rather, it is for the Center of the Covenant to test the people of the world, and not for them to make their minds the standard of truth and weigh therewith the lights of dawn.   AB01531

At least they should learn from 'Abdu'l-Baha pure servitude without interpretation. Until now not a word has issued from His mouth indicating existence, let alone other stations.  AB01519

As the Centre of the Covenant of God, I promulgate the laws of God, interpret His Holy Word, protect His Cause and raise the banner of divine Unity. However, I do not legislate.   ABU1381

The friends must fix their gaze upon the Supreme Horizon, not upon the weak frame of 'Abdu'l-Baha. This frame must assuredly be effaced and vanish in the path of the Glorious Lord.  AB01836

'Abdu'l-Baha has the greatest love for you and therefore does He seek to establish the commonwealth of the Kingdom of God, the government of spiritual affairs and susceptibilities.   AB04899

My work is universal; my time and thoughts are for the whole world on the most important problems relating to affairs that concern the spiritual welfare of nations and individuals.   ABU1898

Although I say always that I am 'Abdu'l-Baha, a servant of God, still people refer to me as a messenger and a prophet. It would be better if they would not attribute such titles to me.  ABU3319

I have noticed in the papers that Abdul Baha is spoken of as a prophet. Does he claim divine inspiration? Abdul Baha. The papers make that statement, but I do not claim to be a prophet.   ABU0365

do not be sorrowful or grief-stricken at your separation and remoteness from 'Abdu'l-Baha, for you are in the vicinity of a Threshold where a hundred thousand like 'Abdu'l-Baha stand guard  AB12796

"My name should be confined to 'Abdul-Baha' in all writings. This is the collective name which will gather all the people and it is the strong fortress and protection of the Cause of God."  AB03878

Pending the formation of the House of Justice, Baha'u'llah has appointed the Centre of the Covenant, affirmed His infallibility and, with His blessed Pen, has solemnly secured His Covenant.  ABU2731

Behold that Abdul-Baha has written a Tablet specially for the purpose, that should anyone ask about his station, it is Abdul-Baha, and no more, that all men may be in unity with each other.  ABU1019

And this servitude is the most glorious gem that shines at the center of creation and through it I glory in the kingdom of existence. In any case, the servant is servant and the Lord is Lord.   AB01711

He has closed all the doors of interpretation to whosoever says he understands this to be so or that to he so. 'Whatever He 'Abdu'l-Baha says is right.' He has left no room for interpretation.   ABU0428

Baha'u'llah did not appoint 'Abdu'l-Baha as the Center of His Covenant because he is his son but because he is the purest and the readiest channel on the face of the earth to carry on this work.   ABU2088

They must hold fast to whatever this servant sayeth or writeth...The tongue of the friends of God must be the interpreter of this servant's tongue, and their pen the interpreter of this servant's pen.   AB01879

Is it proper to test 'Abdu'l-Baha? No, by God! The sought after one should test the seeker, not the intended one test the intender. 'Abdu'l-Baha should test others so that purity may adorn their hearts.  AB04272

Should differences arise among the loved ones concerning any matter, both sides should remain silent and seek clarification from this servant... Whatever answer is given, both sides should acknowledge it   AB01089

Whosoever claims that Abdul-Baha has given to him a tablet or sent a cablegram he must prove it (by showing it). He must bring forth the unmistakable and valid evidence, signed by my own written signature  AB11274

Refer to that which hath flowed from the pen of 'Abdu'l-Baha and observe it with care. You will see that these base utterances bear not the slightest resemblance to the melodies of this Bird of mortality.   AB00332

This evanescent servant constantly yearns to be addressed as 'O Abdul-Baha' and nothing else. How excellent are these words: I am deaf when called by my name, But when addressed as 'O His servant,' I hear.  AB10597

"And if any persons should come to those parts without the permission and approval of 'Abdu'l-Baha, or if they should send letters causing doubts, you must resist with the utmost steadfastness and firmness"  AB01707

When in America I repeatedly said that no one must believe one word said by another regarding any commands, teachings or statements made by me unless they can produce the same in writing over my signature.   ABU3434

This servant's ultimate hope and desire in all the worlds of the seen and unseen is the realization of pure, absolute servitude to the Most Glorious Beauty. I will not exchange this servitude for any station   AB01089

O Ali! Know with absolute certainty that my name is Abdu'l-Baha, my title is Abdu'l-Baha, my attribute is Abdu'l-Baha... This is my path, my religion, my way, my character, my acknowledgment and my confession   AB03288

During a former visit to Akka, when conditions for the prisoners were most severe, Miss Rosenberg was deeply distressed and asked 'Abdu'l-Baha why he, who was so perfect, should have to endure such sufferings. He answered: "How could they (the Manifestations) teach and guide others in the way if they themselves did not undergo every species of suffering to which other human beings are subjected?"  ABU3519

This servant has only the station and name and designation of Abdu'l-Baha, nothing more. I have no name and attribute and title and reality and essence and being and mention and praise except this renowned name.  AB11349

'Abdu'l-Baha is the Center of God's Covenant, but Baha'u'llah is the Sun of Truth, the Divine Educator of the human world and the true Divine Teacher. 'Abdu'l-Baha is the Promoter of the teachings of Baha'u'llah.  AB08186

He arose with such selflessness, evanescence and servitude at the Sacred Threshold that it has no equal or likeness. He is even shy to mention himself as a Branch. His name is 'Abdu'l-Baha and his initials are 'A.A.  AB00470

The Center of the Covenant would be known, and the Interpreter of the verses of the Day-Star of the horizons would be explicitly appointed. Small and great, all would obey. Mighty and lowly, all would seek guidance.  AB00543

According to the clear text of the Book of Akdas and the explicit contents of the Book of the Covenant, 'Abdu'l-Baha is the Interpreter of all the Word and Books of the Blessed Perfection, and not only of the Book of Akdas.  AB03970

Dr. Esslemont: "Are not 'Abdu'l-Baha's Words the same as those of Baha'u'llah?" Abdu'l-Baha:  "Yes. Baha'u'llah in his explicit texts says: 'He ('Abdu'l-Baha) is the Expounder.' I have no opinion of my own. Whatever is His Blessed Will I carry out."  ABU1815


Otherwise, I swear by the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His loved ones' feet - no praise or tribute is sweet to my taste and is contrary to this servant's religious beliefs. Indeed, it makes me sorrowful.   AB06799

The Master is Our shield and the shield of everyone else. It is the Master who stands up to everything and supplies the means for the well-being and peace of all the friends. May God preserve Him from the evil of the envious and inimical.  BHU0072

Since this servant's ultimate desire is to be accepted at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty in utter servitude, no title is sweet to his taste save the call of O `Abdu'l-Baha, and every other form of address becometh the cause of reproach.  AB08400

This servant is the manifestation of pure and utter servitude to the Ancient Beauty, without any interpretation, explanation or allusion. This is my station, and any interpretation below this is unacceptable before God and before 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB07948

And with these sweet words it is declared that this servant's servitude at the Sacred Threshold is true servitude in all the meanings of servitude at the threshold of the Lord of all beings - all are His servants and all act according to His command.  AB07682

I am the lowly, humble servant of the Blessed Beauty and the weak, submissive slave of the Most Great Name. If He accepts me as His servant, I am His true servant, and if He does not, I am His fugitive servant. This is my religion, my path and my faith.   AB02929

We pray but God bestows healing. We do not make claims for ourselves. We are only the expounders of the Word. We are all promulgating the Cause of Baha'u'llah. I am 'Abdu'l-Baha. Address your needs to Him. I am only the expounder and promulgator of the Word.  ABU2746

This servant is detached and fleeing from all names, attributes and titles, and the name, title, essence, reality, attribute and sign of Abdul-Baha meaneth pure, absolute, true servitude that accepteth neither interpretation, nor explanation, nor alteration.   AB01879

The friends of God and the handmaids of the All-Merciful should know that in every movement of 'Abdu'l-Baha, in every word He uttereth, there lieth a great wisdom. If what He doeth appeareth to be strange, this is because the wisdom is not known to the friends.  AB12045

As for this servant, his station is that of a servant of 'Abdu'l-Baha and an atom of dust at the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty. In the presence of His loved ones I am effaced and non-existent, and at the threshold of His servants I am non-existent dust.  AB02251

Therefore, know that I have sacrificed my soul, spirit, life, mention, honor, attributes, my comfort and my name in the path of God and I have chosen no dignity or possession save the obedience of Baha' and no name or title save "Abdul-Baha" (servant of Baha').   ABU1886

The utmost intention of this servant is that the friends should not make me a cause of discord, nor become the reason for the scattering of the Cause of God, for I have never claimed, nor do I claim, any station, nor will I ever be among the proud and haughty ones.  AB02163

Whosoever has the Blessed Perfection with himself as I have is never silenced. Through his confirmation I have stirred the East and the West. Notwithstanding this, some of the weak-minded desire to stand in my path or obscure the Sun of Unity. How negligent they are!   ABU1332

Without a directing will all would be conquered and defeated. Be sure, therefore, that if the believers are not united in the Will of God they will not be assisted. This is especially necessary because all of them are under the Tent of the Covenant in this Revelation.  ABU0433


While the presence of the Covenant is amongst us no other soul has any existence. All others save the Centre of the Covenant are equal. That which issues from the pen of the Centre of the Covenant all must obey so that the fortress of the Cause of GOD may be protected.  ABU1622

In the Book of the Covenant He explicitly stated that he ['Abdu'l-Baha] is the interpreter of the Book, and whatever question you do not understand from the Book, ask him. Whatever he says is correct... He stated that whatever proceeds from his tongue and pen is correct.   ABU0736

Therein He hath explicitly enjoined that after His passing all must turn to the Centre of the Covenant, and that for anything not understood in the Book, He is the authorised Interpreter and whatsoever He uttereth is right. On Him alone hath this authority been conferred.  AB00945

And if I were to want a station for myself, God forbid, what station is greater than being a branch branched from the Ancient Root? By God the Truth, the necks of every station have been humbled and the heads of every station and rank have bowed before this mighty station   AB04355

'Abdu'l-Baha has become a prisoner in chains of the prison of Joseph, so that in the marketplace of servitude He may illumine His face, and in the Egypt of servitude He may place the crown of tribulation on His head and hang the necklace of greatest bounty around His neck.  AB02430

Know thou with absolute certainty that 'Abdu'l-Baha is not pleased with any disagreement among the friends regarding any word whatsoever. Therefore, He has no name, title, attribute or description except 'Abdu'l-Baha, and this servitude is the greatest hope and ultimate goal.   AB02443

But my confidence and trust was in him, because during the days of his life he explicitly promised me that he will assist me always. I heard this promise from his own lips. Therefore I knew that under all circumstances I will be confirmed and all the enemies will be defeated.   ABU3019

The Branch shall build the Temple of the Lord. The Temple means the religion in twelve nations and the country of holy places and the Holy Tombe. To disobey Abdul-Baha is to disobey Baha'o'llah. Their Station is equal in degree and their authority in those days with the people.  ABU0252

By God the Truth! 'Abdu'l-Baha is supported by the Most Glorious Beauty and aided by a power before which all necks shall bow. Soon you shall see the banner of hypocrisy reversed, the edifice of discord demolished, and the standards of peace and harmony waving over the horizons.   AB01366

Moreover, until now what soul has been able to make such addresses in my presence, that he should be the second? For 'Abdu'l-Baha's mention and utterance are verses of servitude at the Divine Threshold, and the power of divine confirmation and assistance is from the All-Merciful.  AB05018

The test of 'Abdu'l-Baha is not beautiful and befitting. As it is related from His Holiness the Prince [Imam 'Ali] - and this tradition is also mentioned in the Mathnavi and is well-known among all people - the Center of the Covenant should test the people of the Cradle, not vice versa.  AB06486

That of the Center of the Covenant was alone and specifically mentioned as being exclusively pertaining to Abdul Baha, and nowhere is it mentioned by inference even, that such a station was transmissible; nor could Mohammed Ali transmit the title of Greater Branch to another after him.   ABU0340

I am 'Abdu'l-Baha without any interpretation or implied meaning. This is my supreme desire! This is my greatest aspiration. After the Blessed Perfection for the period of one thousand years no one shall put forward any claim. I am 'Abdu'l-Baha. The believers must be satisfied with this.   ABU0842

According to the clear text of the Kitab-el-Akdas and other tablets, the Center of the Covenant is the remover of all difficulties, for he is the interpreter of the Book. Not one soul has the right to say one word of his own account, or to explain anything or to elucidate the text of the Book.  AB05467

However, in relation to this servant, nothing beyond the word 'Abdu'l-Baha is permissible, and whatever exceeds this is contrary to the divine foundation and opposed to the good-pleasure of this ephemeral servant. This is my station, this is my position, this is my praise, and this is my portion.   AB03967

Today all must address me as 'Abdu'l-Baha, but no one has the right to dispute with another, for dispute leads to conflict. What I say and what flows from this pen will endure and remain firm, while all else, as you have observed, is like a mirage in the desert which the thirsty imagine to be water.  AB01449

As for my station and rank, my desire is that it be confined to the word 'Abdu'l-Baha, and I know no station greater than this for myself. This is why I am not pleased by any praise that the friends of God offer me except the word 'Abdu'l-Baha. You too, for my pleasure, confine yourself to this word.   AB01475

Therefore in this Most Great Cycle and the maturity of the world, this matter stands like an impregnable fortress, explicitly set forth in the Book of God. By this decisive text and manifest proof, all must be submissive to the commands of government and obedient and loyal to the throne of sovereignty.  AB00011

That Court is my refuge and shelter, and that Threshold is my infinite zenith. Besides that, I have had and have no station. This utterance is my joy and gladness, and my glory and success. Let no one interpret it, or explain it, or comment upon it. This is my religion, this is my faith, this is my path.  AB06081


Regarding the station of this servant: My station is Abdul-Baha, my name is Abdul-Baha, my qualification is Abdul-Baha, my praise is Abdul-Baha, my title is Abdul-Baha. All the friends of God must declare this word, in order that all of them become united and harmonized upon it. No difference must arise.   AB00820

Choose for yourself what you wish - if you wish, hold fast to the Book and reject the Interpreter, opposing him with hints, allusions and explicit statements; or if you wish, hold fast to the Book through the explanations of the appointed Interpreter mentioned in the Preserved Tablet and the Decisive Word.  AB04616

He made all government officials my enemies and incited them all - that is, through subtle means he caused all to become saddened and embittered with me. For this reason he caused me to be placed under surveillance in this prison and caused the way to be blocked and made all the loved ones of God sorrowful.  AB00107

This is out of love for you personally, otherwise the proof of 'Abdu'l-Baha is decisive and brilliant and His evidence is clear and manifest - there is no need for such tests, especially confrontation with the Center of Violation whose importance and station in this strange matter has diminished and lessened.   AB01026

Although Abdu'l-Baha considers himself as a drop, yet this drop is connected with the Most Great Sea. Although he looks upon himself as an atom, yet this atom is related to the world-illuminating Sun. As is said: "The originator of all these voices is the King himself" or in other words: "It is through his assistance."   ABU3343

He turned, by My leave, toward My Prison, and entered the seat of the Throne, and attained the presence of the Face, and heard the call of his Lord, the Mighty, the Wise. We beseech God to assist him in serving His Cause and to grant him that which befits the days of his Lord, the Manifest, the Speaking, the All-Informed.  BH00096

Thou hast observed with what power I sold your lands - which had no deed or documentation, and which you yourselves had hoped at most to sell for three hundred liras, and to which no one would come near, and which had completely slipped from your grasp - for five hundred liras, and you paid the claim of Siyyid 'Ali-Akbar.  AB11199

Now either we must say the Blessed Beauty was mistaken or we must obey. And 'Abdu'l-Baha has no cause to call people to obedience except the spreading of the divine fragrances, the exaltation of the Word of God, the promotion of the unity of the human world, the establishment of universal peace, and similar divine commands.  AB00602

It was like unto a sea of pure honey, or a fountain from the salsabel of the heavenly water or the Spring of Eternal Life flowing out of the Supreme Paradise... I declare by thyself that I have become enthralled with thy love, obligated to thee for thy affection and the prisoner of the Majesty of this title ('Abdu'l-Baha).   AB04605

The proof of this is that in the sacred texts of both Divine Books, He does not command obedience to him nor does He command turning towards him. Rather, the word of turning towards and the command of obedience, whether in the Most Holy Book or in the Book of the Covenant, are specifically designated for the appointed Center.  AB03662

The Will of the divine Testator is this: It is incumbent upon the Aghsan, the Afnan and My Kindred to turn, one and all, their faces towards the Most Mighty Branch. Consider that which We have revealed in Our Most Holy Book: 'When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My Revelation is ended, turn your faces toward Him Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root.' The object of this sacred verse is none other except the Most Mighty Branch [Abdu'l-Baha]. Thus have We graciously revealed unto you Our potent Will, and I am verily the Gracious, the All-Powerful.  Verily God hath ordained the station of the Greater Branch [Muhammad Ali] to be beneath that of the Most Great Branch [Abdu'l-Baha]. He is in truth the Ordainer, the All-Wise. We have chosen 'the Greater' after 'the Most Great', as decreed by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH00003

"Should the Universal House of Justice be operating, by the one True God, beside Whom there is no God, I would have been the first to obey its decree, even if it should be against me. It is true that that Body does not possess inherent infallibility, but it is under the shadow of the protection and shelter of the Blessed Beauty."  ABU2070

Leave the fabricators and the deceivers, and hearken to the word of truth and manifest sincerity set forth in the Book of God by the Center of the Covenant, the Interpreter of the Book, who is versed in its meaning, and who is firmly grounded in knowledge, through a clear text that accepteth neither interpretation nor explanation  AB04193

Tell those two persons that since there is an explicit prohibition, we cannot disobey. It would have been good if you had first gone to Akka and obtained permission from there. Then when you came you would have received the utmost consideration. Now you too must obey. If you are true believers, act according to this prohibition.   AB01202

But in this mighty Dispensation and this glorious Cycle, praise be to God, the Center of the Covenant is visible and known, and the pivot of the Testament is clear and manifest to all. The people of all regions are universally witnesses to the Covenant, and East and West are aware of the Testament of the Day-Star of the horizons.   AB00401

I am the servant of Baha'u'llah and nothing more; Abdu'l-Baha is the sum of all perfections. They must not attempt to surpass that name, "'Abdu'l-Baha". All must say to others that he claims for himself to be 'Abdu'l-Baha and the believers must call him by his name as he wishes. This is the only name he has appointed for himself.   ABU3177

But I did not write this of Myself. Nay, the confirmation of Baha'u'llah wrote this! Of Myself I did not write it. Therefore the beloved of God must refer to Me only as 'Abdu'l-Baha. This is My glorious crown! This is My eternal sovereignty! This is My everlasting life! Whosoever questions Me concerning My Name, My answer is: 'ABDU'L-BAHa!'   ABU0247

But the Center of the Covenant is the reference point for all people and the interpreter of the Book, and all Baha'is are under his shadow. If anyone interprets the divine Book according to their own understanding contrary to the explicit text of the Pen of the Covenant, it is not acceptable and causes differences among the loved ones of God.  AB00465

By the life of God, I am free from every title except the title of 'Abdu'l-Baha, and I am distant from every name except this noble name. For servitude at His Exalted Threshold is the light of my countenance, the brightness of my sight, the joy of my heart and the delight of my being, and I would not exchange His servitude for anything in existence.  AB06798


But my name should be confined to Abdul-Baha in all writings. This is the collective name which will gather all the people, and it is the strong fortress and protection of the Cause of God. The beloved ones must limit themselves to this. However, ye may mention me as the Light of Love of God, the Flame of the Guidance of God and the Banner of Peace and Harmony.   AB01870

However, when the refrain was compared with 'Abdu'l-Baha's beliefs, it did not match. We praise you for the eloquence, fluency and original meanings, but we lament and moan about the departure from 'Abdu'l-Baha's belief. When you compose a refrain about servitude, submissiveness, and the effacement and evanescence of 'Abdu'l-Baha, then it will bring boundless joy   AB02419

"first ask him the letter giving him a new permission to come again to America. If he shows you any such letter, be most careful and attentive that it is my writing and my signature, that they may not be counterfeits. Then you cable to me and inquire about him. When the answer is received by you that it is correct then you meet him, otherwise do not associate with him."  AB03653

He said, "Verily, He is the appointed one; other than He, there is none," intending that no sects or prejudices should be formed, and preventing every man here and there with a new thought from creating dissension and variance. It is as though a king should appoint a governor-general. Whosoever obeys him, obeys the king. Whosoever violates and disobeys him, violates the king.  ABU0093

And he shall present him in the Egypt of the most high, and he shall shine forth with the light of the Covenant from the dawning-places of the horizons. And he shall be delivered from the prison of the vain imaginings of the people of doubts, and God shall make him mighty after he was abased among the followers of the allegorical verses and those who neglected the clear texts.   AB06525

The station of the previous Manifestations was that of the Greater Prophethood, and the station of the Primal Point was that of witnessed Divinity, and the station of the Most Holy Ancient Beauty was that of the Essential Oneness of Existential Identity, while the rank of this servant is that of pure, absolute, genuine, true servitude which admits of no interpretation or explanation.  AB01152

They found no means to accuse this servant of the Threshold except to open their tongues in calumny that "he claims lordship." Could there be any greater nonsense than this? No, by God! Setting aside all humanity, the very rocks, clods of earth and trees testify that 'Abdu'l-Baha desires nothing save servitude at the Threshold, and no word indicating existence ever issues from his mouth.   AB01745

O thou who addressed me by the name of Abdul-Baha in your letter. O how excellent is this shining phenomenon and well-expressed and eloquent title endorsed on the back of your letter? How sweet is its meaning and how pleasant is the savor of its content to my taste. It is like a sea of pure honey and a well-spring of the streams of heaven. It is a source of everlasting life in the highest paradise.   AB05965

For the exaltation of the Word of God and the diffusion of the divine fragrances, 'Abdu'l-Baha has emigrated from the Holy Threshold which is his very spirit and soul, and become separated from kissing that Threshold which is the desire of his heart and soul, solely that he might succeed in rendering some service and servitude. And he has no thought or arrangement except for exalting the Word of God.  AB01486

Everyone, regardless of their rank and station, had no choice but to show humility and meekness in the presence of the Center of God's Covenant. Otherwise, how could the rebellious ones of Europe and America be compared with showing humility and reverence in the presence of the Master of Tajik? How could the proud ones of Western civilization be compared with showing submission to the religion of the East?   ABU0795

"See how Mirza Muhammad Ali has said that 'Aqa (i.e., 'Abdu'l-Baha Himself) has abolished and effaced the Cause of God!' By the life of God, see you whether I - who have caused the Cause of the Blessed Perfection to reach the East and West until numerous devoted and eloquent souls like Mr. Harris have appeared therein - have effaced the Cause, or Mirza Muhammad Ali who has done so much harm by arising against me!"  ABU0719

The Interpreter is present and visible, the Center of the Covenant explicitly appointed and manifest, yet completely ignored, and to prevent differences, they call for reference to verses alone. The door of independent judgment is opened and the seat of jurisprudence spread wide, while by explicit divine text, the meaning of verses, determination of clear ones, and interpretation of ambiguous ones are referred to him.   AB00312

Likewise, in the Kitab-i-'Ahd, the specifically appointed authority unto whom all must turn when differences arise is the Centre of the Covenant, the Interpreter of the verses of the Divine Luminary of the worlds. Notwithstanding this, a centre and interpreter is being sought elsewhere, even though it hath been made incumbent upon all, and particularly upon the Aghsan, the Afnan, and the kindred, to turn to the Centre of the Covenant.  AB00005

If the disagreement is about the station of this servant, I swear by the Sacred Threshold - and it is truly a mighty oath if you but knew it - that I have never had and do not have any station except absolute, pure, complete servitude, free from every conception. This has been my disposition since I nursed from the breast of God's mercy, and this has been my nature since the tenderness of my youth and my upbringing in the cradle of God's favors.  AB00641

"Regarding myself, I am the Servant of Baha'u'llah and nothing more; 'Abdu'l-Baha is the sum of all perfections, they must not attempt to surpass that word, 'Abdu'l-Baha." He made it clearer to us by saying: master is one ray, one attribute of God, Lord is another, Christ is another; other terms of endearment are but rays. Under the name 'Abdu'l-Baha, all perfections are found. To call Him by any other name we take away from Him rather than exalt Him.   ABU2363

No Feast Days can be set aside or introduced except those relating to the Blessed Beauty and His Highness the Exalted Bab. Then, very earnest, very emphatic, addressing all of them, He said, 'Do you understand what I am saying? For if anything contrary to this be done, the Faith would become similar to those sects which have so many holidays and feasts that out of three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, some one hundred and eighty are feast days.'  ABU0907

and the pure, absolute, essential, inner, true, explicit servitude of 'Abdu'l-Baha without any trace of mention other than that. This is my ultimate goal, the highest ascent of my aspirations, my paradise of refuge, the light of my countenance, the desire of my heart, the healing of my breast, the coolness of my eyes, the quenching of my thirst, the soothing of my burning, and the cure of my illness. Whoever believes otherwise has indeed opposed 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB01545

In the Kitab-i-Aqdas, in two instances, He explicitly gave a decisive command and clearly designated the Interpreter of the Book. And in all divine Tablets, especially the Suriy-i-Ghusn, the meaning of which is entirely the servitude of 'Abdu'l-Baha - that is, whatever was necessary was revealed from the Supreme Pen about 'Abdu'l-Baha, and since 'Abdu'l-Baha is the Interpreter of the Book, He says this Suriy-i-Ghusn means the servitude of 'Abdu'l-Baha and nothing else.  AB01184

Truly I speak through the benevolence of El-Abha in spirit and in vision to the one who addresses me, and this is known to those to whom God has revealed it and removed the dark veils from their eyes. O Handmaid of God, when you are united in a spiritual gathering and celebrate the remembrance of God by His Most Glorious Name, the Divine One, truly then 'Abdu'l-Baha is present and communes with you in spirit and asks God to grant your prayers through His eternal grace.  AB12422

Attaining these depends upon steadfastness in the religion of God and arising to serve the Cause of God. I beseech my Lord, the Glorious, the Most Glorious, that He may graciously bestow upon His poor, distressed servant who has taken refuge in the firm cord, that he may see the Afnan of the Blessed Tree as goodly trees growing up, firm of root, lofty of branch, verdant, fresh, and flourishing, watered by the clouds of the Most Great Bounty and bearing fruits such as no eye has seen nor ear heard.   AB02296

O friends of God! This servant, in a state of utter effacement, extinction, evanescence and poverty, most earnestly entreateth the friends to treat that which hath been revealed from the Pen of this Prisoner in such wise as to deem it binding and authoritative, and consider it an article of faith. They should utter no word save Abdu'l-Baha, offer no praise except for Him, seek no station or rank, and voice no eulogy but this: should anyone inquire about this servant's station, let the answer be Abdu'l-Baha.  AB00260


Moreover, he openly stated that 'Abdu'l-Baha's station is that of Peter, implying that He is capable of error like Peter who denied Christ. I do not even claim the station of Peter. I am the servant of the Blessed Beauty, but the protecting shelter of the Blessed Beauty is my refuge and I have fallen under the shadow of the Blessed Beauty's infallibility. For essential infallibility belongs exclusively to the Blessed Beauty, like the sun whose light is inherent, while 'Abdu'l-Baha is under the shadow of this infallibility and derives from its lights. Therefore, praise be to God, I am preserved and protected from the darkness of error - meaning the Blessed Beauty protects 'Abdu'l-Baha from error. AB00497


The station of this servant is servitude to the Holy Threshold (BAHA'O'LLAH) and I glory and honor in this. Abdul-Baha is the standard of the divine love, the sign of the gift of God, the servant of the assemblage of the merciful ones, the light of the meeting of the spiritual ones. He is the orb of peace and reconciliation and the light of love in the world of humanity. He is the herald of the Kingdom of the Merciful One and the promulgator of the religion of rectitude and security. This is the station of this servant! This is the Truth!   AB01126

They should not consider what words of praise and attributes of favor are mentioned about this servant in the divine Tablets, but rather promote this servant's utterance, which is this: that all divine verses revealed in the Tablets and Scriptures of the All-Merciful regarding this servant - that is, 'Abdu'l-Baha - I understand only this meaning and desire no other interpretation, and all must obey. Any mention of praise, commendation, eulogy, odes, description or tribute from people that is outside this servant's explanation and interpretation is not acceptable.  AB00254

Concerning what the unfaithful have publicized about this Servant, that He has a claim or proclaims a station for Himself, it was written in a letter that absolute servitude and true thralldom at the sacred threshold is my luminous crown and my sublime diadem, it is my great virtue, and my Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, it is my holiest Temple and my eternal Paradise. This is the explicit statement of this Servant and revealed by My own hand and pen. I wish no rank but this unique rank and no station but the great station of supplication and invocation.   AB00339

You must not look upon the personality of Abdul-Baha, for he will eventually bid ye farewell. Nay, ye must observe the Word of God. If the Word of God is in the ascendant, be ye happy, joyous and thankful, even if Abdul-Baha be under a sword or beneath fetters and chains; for importance is in the holy temple of the Cause of God, and not in the physical mould of Abdul-Baha. Abdul-Baha is the servant of the Word of the Blessed Beauty and the manifestation of absolute servitude in the threshold of the Lord. He has no other station, grade, class or power. This is my utmost hope, and my abiding paradise.   AB06542

No one should adhere to different titles: one title (or station) is enough, and it is "Abdul-Baha." All must agree in this word, until the difference of opinions may be entirely removed from their midst. But that which is essential to the acknowledgment of this word (i.e., Abdul Baha) is attraction to the love of God, service to the Cause of God, diffusing the Word of God, severance from all else save God, affinity, union, oneness, humility, meekness, nothingness and servitude to the beloved of God. If one does not become characterized with these attributes, he has not acknowledged the title (or station) of Abdul-Baha.  AB00232

Know ye that my very being is 'Abdu'l-Baha, my essence is 'Abdu'l-Baha, my reality is 'Abdu'l-Baha, my loftiest station is 'Abdu'l-Baha, and my ultimate goal is 'Abdu'l-Baha. I have no station save servitude to Baha, no rank except submission and service to the loved ones of God. Nothing has flowed from my pen except that I am 'Abdu'l-Baha, the Son of Baha, and the bondsman of Baha. In this do I glory among the multitudes, for the servitude of Baha is a wondrous and radiant gem that burns and shines upon the crown of eternal and resplendent glory. This is my station and my rank, and I am 'Abdu'l-Baha and the Son of Baha.  AB05407

Each renewal of religion in an epoch of time becomes the foundation of a new religion.  The new religion and prophetic teaching of our period of time has for its Forerunner His Holiness the Bab, and for its Consummator the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah.  As the chosen and appointed Successor of the Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah, my lowly self has the task of disseminating and strengthening the Religion founded by Him, the 'Qa'imu'z-Zaman', namely the Baha'i Teachings. The gate of Revelation has not been totally closed with the Ascension of the Divine Manifestation Baha'u'llah, and the divinely-appointed Successor, my lowly self, is now to be its channel.   ABU0111

In any case, convey my longing greetings to all the loved ones of God in Abadih. And if any mention is made in that land regarding the station of Abdul-Baha, nothing but this word is acceptable or beloved - all must utter only this word: Abdul-Baha. For example, if someone asks what is the meaning of The Branch that has branched from this Ancient Root, the answer is Abdul-Baha. How should one's attention be directed? The answer is Abdul-Baha. What is the meaning of the Surih of the Branch? The answer is Abdul-Baha. In short, if any word other than Abdul-Baha is uttered by any tongue regarding this servant, it is in opposition to the explicit text of this servant.  AB09689

But as for me - my name is 'Abdu'l-Baha, my being is 'Abdu'l-Baha, my attributes are 'Abdu'l-Baha, my reality is 'Abdu'l-Baha, my praise is 'Abdu'l-Baha, for servitude to the Blessed Beauty is my glorious crown and service to all humanity is my perpetual religion. Through the bounty and favor of the Blessed Beauty, 'Abdu'l-Baha is the banner of the Most Great Peace that waves in the supreme heights, and through the gift of the Greatest Name, he is the lamp of universal peace that shines with the light of the love of God. He is the herald of the Kingdom who awakens East and West, and the voice of friendship, truthfulness, reality-worship and reconciliation that has created a tumult throughout all regions.  AB00252


As for the station of this servant, it is that of pure, absolute, true, steadfast, evident servitude, without interpretation, explanation, allusion or elaboration - meaning a slave with a ring in his ear and a servant with a burden on his shoulder, the dust of the Threshold and its watchman and doorkeeper. Whatever description and praise exists in all divine tablets and scriptures regarding this servant, through pure bounty, means solely this word: 'Abdu'l-Baha. Any interpretation or explanation that adds a single letter beyond this word - I am innocent of it, and I take God, His Prophets, His Messengers, His trustees, His chosen ones, His pure ones, and His loved ones as witness to this. I am the interpreter of His verses - this is my statement, and beyond truth there is naught but vain imaginings.   AB00165

As to what thou asked concerning me: Verily, I say unto thee, that I am indeed an humble, submissive and imploring servant of God; a servant of His Beloved; a messenger of the exaltation of His Word; a spreader of His Fragrances; an extoller of the banner of love and harmony; a promoter of the greatest peace among all nations and tribes; a kindler of the fire of the love of God in the hearts of the people; a runner to the place of martyrdom in the Cause of God; a yearner for every calamity in the love of God; a longer for suspension upon the cross for the love of the beloved; a herald of the Kingdom of God among the sects of all horizons. This is my station and condition; this is my blazing crown; this is my glorious throne; because my servitude to the Holy Threshold is my brilliant light, my shining star and my drawn sword; and beside this I have no other name.  AB01355



Thanks be to the Most Holy One that after the Ascension He raised high the Banner of the Covenant beneath the shade of the Tree of Life and appointed the Center of the Covenant. Now certain neophytes have conceived the notion of displacing this divine Star of the Covenant from the pole of the Center of the Covenant, and on the pretext of the term "Most Great Infallibility" would attribute the possibility of error to the appointed Interpreter, thereby insulting the Blessed Beauty by suggesting that He established as the Center of His Covenant one capable of error and made him the interpreter of all His Tablets and Scriptures.  AB09575


All must refer to what has issued from this Pen. You observe that the purpose of the wavering ones is nothing but rebellion and revolt, for from this Pen nothing has flowed except pure servitude, and never has any claim of infallibility or lack thereof been made. These discussions are for seminary students after a thousand years - now is not the time for such words, accusations and objections.  AB03444


One says we must refer to the tablets and writings, while violating the explicit text, his intention in saying this not being to honor the Book of God but rather his corrupt purpose being that there is no need for the appointed Interpreter. Another says that the Blessed Beauty made all independent, meaning there is no need for the Center of the Cause. Another says that infallibility was exclusively for the Blessed Beauty, meaning the Center of the Cause can err and make mistakes. Another says they have exaggerated, meaning that firm adherence is not necessary. In brief, there are many such doubts and intimations  AB01499

Now the people of weakness have confused the thoughts of the feeble ones with ornate words, making them completely averse to the Testament of God. One says the Blessed Beauty has made all independent, meaning there is no need for the Center of the Covenant. Another says infallibility is restricted to the Sacred Being, not knowing the meaning of essential and conferred infallibility, for divine infallibility is essential infallibility while the infallibility of the Prophets and chosen ones is conferred infallibility, "except him whom God protects." Yet another says "Let us refer to the Book, the Book is sufficient," meaning there is no need for an interpreter. This statement was the first breach in Islam and was the saying of the second Caliph who said "The Book of God is sufficient for us," AB01009


the purpose of the covenant-breakers in publishing fabricated papers and spreading base rumors is to cause the Center of the Covenant to be completely forgotten and to make themselves appear important in the eyes of the ignorant. Otherwise we are all believers in the oneness of God and acknowledge the inherent infallibility of the Blessed Beauty - there is no disagreement about this. And if any soul has a share of infallibility, this is through the grace and favor of the Ancient Beauty, for "the earth receives a portion from the cup of the noble ones" - meaning that the Blessed Beauty preserves and protects.  AB01041

Now some capricious ones have appeared who have secretly started whispering, and when confident of someone, they openly mention it too. One says the Blessed Beauty made all independent, leaving no need - his secret intention being there is no need for the appointed station. Another says infallibility was confined to the Blessed Beauty, no one else is infallible - his inner meaning being that He Whom God Has Chosen can err. Another that whoever was accepted in the blessed days or was a believer, or had a tablet revealed for them, cannot become rejected - his true purpose being that if one opposes the good-pleasure and dares to show enmity, it causes no harm. They promote such statements secretly and openly, and the intention of all these sayings is to break the Covenant and Testament.  AB00452

At that time [the ascension of Baha'u'llah] these words, meaning the term 'infallibility,' were never heard so that it could be determined whether it existed or not. These friends [the Covenant-breakers] first gradually introduced these words and spread them by word of mouth to divide the believers into two groups - one group to affirm and another to deny - and thereby create an opening to weaken the Covenant and Testament. But I swear by your precious life that I exist in a realm where I flee from all such thoughts. I know no infallibility except service at the Sacred Threshold and seek no unity except immersion in the ocean of His love. With my life I guard this Threshold - whoever agrees with me and girds up their loins, excellent is their aim, and whoever opposes, they know best - to them their religion and to me mine.  AB00403

In utmost secrecy, they [the Covenant-breakers] sometimes say "The Book of God sufficeth us," and at times they utter "the day when God will enrich all through His abundance." At one moment they claim that infallibility is denied and error and mistake are possible and expected; at another, they outwardly profess unity with their tongues while in reality they seek to demean and disparage. They utter "the One Lord hath no partner" yet through these words they aim to confuse minds and disturb thoughts. This is indeed "a word of truth intended for falsehood," for the Ancient Beauty--may my soul be offered up for His exalted threshold--hath no partner or likeness. God forbid! Indeed, befitting servitude and true worship of Him is impossible and unattainable, for He alone wished to be the Beloved of the worlds and the Goal of the mystics. However, through such intimations, the people of doubts aim to scatter the Word of God, divide the party of God, and demean the Covenant and Testament of the All-Merciful, so that they might shake the weak souls with ornate speech. When such thoughts cross their minds, they raise the question of infallibility, while no one claims infallibility. When the weak-minded accept this, they secretly raise objections, and when this too is heard, they deny the Covenant and Testament from its foundation.  AB00292

None can object to this servant; all objections are directed to the Ancient Beauty, Who appointed a soul devoid of infallibility as the Center of His Covenant.  AB11493

Inasmuch as there was no appointed explainer of the Book of Christ, everyone made the claim to authority, saying, "This is the true pathway and others are not." To ward off such dissensions as these and prevent any person from creating a division or sect the Blessed Perfection, Baha'u'llah, appointed a central authoritative Personage, declaring Him to be the expounder of the Book. This implies that the people in general do not understand the meanings of the Book, but this appointed One does understand. Therefore, Baha'u'llah said, "He is the explainer of My Book and the Center of My Testament." In the last verses of the Book instructions are revealed, declaring that, "After Me," you must turn toward a special Personage and "whatsoever He says is correct." In the Book of the Covenant Baha'u'llah declares that by these two verses this Personage is meant.... Many utterances are directed against the violators of the Covenant, the purpose being that no dissension should arise in the blessed Cause; that no one should say, "My opinion is this"; and that all may know Who is the authoritative expounder and whatsoever He says is correct. Baha'u'llah has not left any possible room for dissension. ABU0412


The point to which all eyes should turn is One. All eyes must turn their attention to the Center of the Covenant while the presence of the Covenant is among us. No other soul should have any existence. All others save the Center of the Covenant are equal. ABU3355


Then by the Supreme Pen the Book of the Covenant was inscribed and the Preserved Tablet of the Testament written, commanding all with explicit clear instruction to turn to, submit to, obey and follow  AB00452

And in the Book of the Covenant He explicitly states that what is meant by this separated Branch is the Most Great Branch, and He commands all the Branches, Twigs, relatives and friends to turn to him.  AB00602

Then, to prevent anyone from having doubts, by the Supreme Pen He described the Interpreter with all attributes and names, established Him as the Center of the Covenant, revealed the Book of the Covenant, and repeatedly commanded all in the Book of the Covenant to turn to Him  AB01009

For thirty years He made mention of the Covenant and Testament, and the words of the Covenant and faith flowed from His blessed Pen and pure Mouth, until the sacred and preserved Tablet known as the Book of the Covenant appeared like an unfurled scroll, an inscribed book, and a preserved tablet. All those souls who were awaiting to raise the word of opposition and spread the breaths of doubts were disappointed and frustrated, and the divine Covenant, like a luminous sun, illumined and brightened both East and West, to such an extent that all the kings of the earth took the Book of God's Covenant and preserved it in their treasuries, and the fame of this mighty divine Covenant conquered all regions. This is not a narrative that its narrator could be denied, nor is it in the handwriting of a scribe that could give rise to doubts and result in lack of confidence. Rather, it is by the pen of the Most High. Despite this, a few foolish ones are trying through various tricks and deceptions to create a breach and cause division and utterly destroy the divine edifice. But vain is that which they imagine.  AB02695

The Book of the Covenant is the last Tablet revealed by the Supreme Pen before His ascension, and all previous Tablets are subordinate to the Book of the Covenant, which is the last emanation of His Will, whereas all other Tablets were revealed prior to this One, and He hath named it the Book of the Covenant.  AB00945


I am 'Abdu'l-Baha. I am the servant of the world of humanity.   ABU3533

O handmaid of the Lord, My title is 'Abdu'l-Baha, address Me with this title of glorious meaning.  AB00745

As for my station, it is that of 'Abdu'l-Baha - the manifestation of servitude at the threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB05731

I have no difference with anybody. I am busy in servitude to the Threshold of Baha'u'llah. Everybody who agrees with me, I feel attached to.  AB01884

According to the clear text of the Kitab-el-Akdas and other tablets, the Center of the Covenant is the remover of all difficulties, for he is the interpreter of the Book.  AB05467

I am nothing but the Servant of God. Some in America are looking for a 'third Christ' or personage. This is only imagination. Some call me Christ. This also is imagination.   ABU0107

The master says that he has come very far to see you, and that you are very welcome. He praises God that after forty-two years of imprisonment for the faith he is able to come to you.   ABU0977

my reality is Abdu'l-Baha, my essence is Abdu'l-Baha, my inner being is Abdu'l-Baha, my secret is Abdu'l-Baha... my ultimate goal is Abdu'l-Baha, my Lote-Tree of the Extremity is Abdu'l-Baha   AB03288

Now again the same is the case in the Manifestation of BAHA'O'LLAH. I beg of God that thy dear husband be guided through the light of guidance and become a sign of the gift of the Kingdom of ABHA.  AB05054

My power consists of the Bestowals of the Blessed Beauty. They are all spiritual Favors given to me by BAHA'O'LLAH. From Early morning until now I have been reading and writing and I am feeling exceedingly well.  ABU1044

Your pen must be the interpreter of this servant's pen, and whatever flows from this pen must stream from that pen - that is, in mentioning this servant's servitude, your pen will, God willing, become a mighty sign.   AB02001

(After a silence of several minutes during which the Master gazed out of the window in which the Master seemed to be receiving the vibrations from all parts of the world, a silence filled with deep spirituality, he continued)  ABU2076

Now listen unto what I say for it is the foundation of success and the basis of righteousness among the people of the world, that you may be obedient unto Abdul-Baha in all he wishes and says, Verily this is possessing strong faith.   ABU1886

Abdul-Baha is the banner of the love of God, the lamp of the knowledge of God, the Herald of the Kingdom of God, the Commander of the hosts of peace and reconciliation, and the Orb of Union and Harmony among all the nations of the world.  AB00232

"Abdul-Baha is the banner of the love of God, the lamp of the knowledge of God, the herald of the kingdom of God, the commander of the hosts of peace and reconciliation, and the orb of union and harmony among all the nations of the world."  AB03878

The purpose is that the friends of God must not regard me. This Cause is a great Cause; it is the Cause of the Blessed Beauty. A thousand souls like me come and go; it is the same whether they exist or not. The importance is in the Blessed Cause.  ABU0068

While he suffers from pain, he thinks of our progress! In sweet humility he admonishes us with the words of light and life. Untiringly he paves and straighten for us the path of duty and the road toward the Kingdom of Eternity; working on, preaching on, never dreaming of despair.  ABU1037

I have one request of you, which you should convey everywhere: that my name, title, reality, identity and essential nature is 'Abdu'l-Baha. Let them utter no word but this. In all letters written to me, address them O 'Abdu'l-Baha and then after this word write your purpose and intention  ABU0852

'One said to Christ, "Good Lord," and Christ replied, "Why callest thou me good? There is none good save one, that is God." Can we say that Christ was a sinner? It is permissible for one in the station of his holiness Christ to say so but can anyone else say that Christ was a sinner? No!'  ABU0362

The light which I receive from his Holiness Baha'o'llah I give (that) unto you. Every grace which I receive from Him I give back to you. The teaching I have received from Baha'o'llah, I give unto you. The food which His holiness Baha'o'llah has given to me, I have made you my partners in it.   ABU0698

The purpose was not what you thought, rather the intent was that whatever station this servant describes or even desires for himself, you should endorse it - meaning you should mention that same station for this servant in letters and statements. And the station of this servant is 'Abdu'l-Baha.   AB01090

I am 'Abdu'l-Baha and no more. Whosoever praises me with any other title I am not pleased with him. I am the Servant at the Threshold of the Blessed Perfection and I hope that this servitude of mine shall become acceptable. Whosoever mentions any other name save this, I am not at all pleased with him. 'Abdu'l-Baha and no more.   ABU0128

the eloquence of the Most Great Branch and His power, influence and dominion are not yet known or apparent. Later it will become clear with what power, penetration and divine grace He will raise the banner of the Most Great Name at the world's center, and how He will gather all who dwell on earth beneath the pavilion of peace and tranquility.  BHU0009

He must be a brilliant banner to the East and a mighty sign to the West, a flame to Africa and a light to America. He must associate and mingle with strangers while avoiding harm from acquaintances. He must resist opposition and defend against corruption. Consider how a single person can bear all these trials and tribulations and fulfill these endless duties.   AB02351

When asked about his titles and names, 'Abdu'l-Baha emphasizes his preference for the name "'Abdu'l-Baha" while acknowledging other titles given by Baha'u'llah, stating "I like this name but the Blessed Beauty has given other names also." He explains his approach of humility, saying "One cannot speak in glorification of one's self. The others should do that."   ABU0628

The eloquence of the Most Great Branch and His power, influence and ascendancy are not yet known or apparent--later it will become clear how, single and alone, He will raise the standard of the Most Great Name at the world's axis with what power, penetration and mercifulness, and how He will gather all who are on earth beneath the pavilion of peace and tranquility.  BHU0008

We beseech God to cause His servants through you to enter the depths of the ocean of His oneness, and to give them to drink, through your mention, the Kawthar of life, and through your utterance, the choice wine of divine knowledge, and to aid you with the hosts of knowledge and wisdom in such wise that through you the cities of the horizons and of hearts may be opened.  BH08181

However, 'Abdu'l-Baha, despite weakness and having no belongings or fame, entered those regions. Since he was known and renowned for servitude at the Sacred Threshold, the banner "Verily We have given thee a manifest victory" was chanted in great gatherings, and detailed accounts were published in newspapers and other publications and spread throughout the East and West of the world.   AB02780

But 'Abdu'l-Baha does not have time to write even one word for every hundred souls, since the loved ones of God and His handmaidens surge like waves throughout all the regions of the world, each requesting a letter. And the great occupations and difficulties are like spring rains, while the assault of the Covenant-breakers is like wild beasts. Given this, how can I find time for special letters?   AB03932

The Center of the Covenant arose with such servitude as the eye of existence had never witnessed, supplicating, humbling himself, imploring, standing in devotion before God, the Lord of the worlds. He cast his face upon the dust of lowliness and brokenness, rubbing his forehead in the dust of supplication and entreaty, saying: "O Lord! Make firm my steps upon the path of servitude at Thy exalted Threshold. Verily, Thou art the Most High!"   AB00401

Through the bounty and favor of the Blessed Perfection, Abdul-Baha is the ensign of the Most Great Peace, which is waving from the Supreme Apex; and through the gift of the Greatest Name, he is the lamp of universal salvation, which is shining with the light of the love of God. The herald of the Kingdom is he, so that he may awaken the people of the East and of the West. The voice of friendship, uprightness, truth and reconciliation is he, so as to cause acceleration throughout all regions.   AB03588

And I have one request to make of all the friends of God, and it is the dearest wish of my heart: that they praise me solely for my servitude to the Sacred Threshold, without interpretation, and praise 'Abdu'l-Baha only in such words and expressions as have issued from this servant's own pen, never going beyond these, and being content therewith. For verily my attribute, my quality, my station, my name, my title, my essence, my reality, my public and private self are all 'Abdu'l-Baha, and I have no station other than this.  AB00122

Fifth, if this honored Temple did not possess station and greatness, by what power has He made so many living beings like lifeless forms attracted before Him and made so many people servants of the doorkeeper and slaves to His command? Sixth, among fifteen million Iranians has such a lofty one emerged from Iran who, in every city and clime He has set foot, has reached to heaven and wherever He has arrived, its inhabitants have kissed His hand and through seeing Him have attained their desires? Now suppose that according to you He is not the possessor of this seat and station - what objection can there be to His other stations, for He is the pride of Iran and cause of glory for the people of the East.   ABU1207

Take me as thy example in all thy conduct and dealing. Look at me! Therefore you must strive as much thou canst not to sadden any heart. I desire that thou mayst walk in my footsteps!   ABU1790

When my successor "Ghusn-i-A'zam" (Most Great Branch, 'Abdu'l-Baha) has followed Me into the world of reality (the beyond), the House of Justice (Baytu'l-'Adl) shall expound the Holy Teachings and the Divine Law of the All-Highest Prophet (Baha'i Teachings and Kitab-i-Aqdas and Baha'u'llah) and shall make infallible additions according to individual, new and modern needs and the state of development of people at the time.  ABU0375

Now Moses said that after Him should come Joshua. The Christ said, addressing Peter, 'Thou art the Rock, and I will build My temple upon this Rock.' Jesus spoke this to Peter by word of mouth. The Blessed Perfection did not appoint His successor by statement of tongue, but in the 'Book of 'Ahd' ('Book of the Covenant'), He wrote it with His own Hand, commanding therein that all the branches and relations should look toward the Center of the Covenant.  ABU0466


In the Kitab-i-Aqdas, which is the reference for all, and in the Book of the Covenant, which is the last Tablet of the Blessed Beauty and the product of the Supreme Pen, He clearly and explicitly addresses first the Aghsan, then the Afnan, then the relatives, then all the loved ones to turn to the Center of the Covenant. Verses have been revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas stating that after the ascension you should turn to the Branch that has branched from the Ancient Root. In the Book of the Covenant, He explicitly states that this refers to the Center of the Covenant, and in clear terms in the special Tablet which is accepted by all, He names the center of violation explicitly, stating that should he deviate even slightly from the shadow of the Cause, he would cease to be a Branch.  AB00224

For thirty years Thou didst nurture all who claimed to love Thee at the breast of the Virgin of Thy Most Holy Book with the milk of the Covenant. In all Thy Tablets and Scriptures Thou didst praise and cherish those who held fast to Thy Covenant, while condemning and reproving the wavering and the Covenant-breakers. Then by Thy Supreme Pen Thou didst write the Book of the Covenant and inscribe the Tablet of the Testament, so that no room would remain for doubt or misgiving, and the Cause and Center of God's Cause would be as clear as the sun   AB01054

Inasmuch as great differences and divergences of denominational belief had arisen throughout the past, every man with a new idea attributing it to God, Baha'u'llah desired that there should not be any ground or reason for disagreement among the Baha'is. Therefore, with His own pen He wrote the Book of His Covenant, addressing His relations and all people of the world, saying, "Verily, I have appointed One Who is the Center of My Covenant. All must obey Him; all must turn to Him; He is the Expounder of My Book, and He is informed of My purpose."  ABU0093


Among the distinctive features of this Dispensation of Baha'u'llah, which did not exist in previous dispensations, is that Baha'u'llah left no room for discord, for in His blessed day He took a covenant and testament by the pen of the Most High, designated the reference point for all, explicitly appointed the Interpreter of the Book, and closed the doors of interpretation.  AB01184

It is mentioned in the Tablets of the Blessed Beauty. It is recorded in the Book of the Covenant and in the explicit texts of the Kitab-i-Aqdas. Clearly He says, and in the Kitab-i-Aqdas He writes, that 'after Me turn your faces to the Branch who is branched from this Pre-existent Root. Ask from Him the meanings of the Writings and Tablets. He is the Expounder of the Book.'   ABU0428

The swift remedy for this illness that has afflicted the Assembly is remembrance and reflection upon the Covenant - whether the Blessed Beauty took this Covenant for the obedience of all or for opposition. If it was taken for opposition, we have nothing to say, but if it was taken for obedience and agreement, then wavering causes evident loss and disobedience and inattention is a great error.   AB01409

As to the most great characteristic of the revelation of Baha'u'llah, a specific teaching not given by any of the Prophets of the past: It is the ordination and appointment of the Center of the Covenant. By this appointment and provision He has safeguarded and protected the religion of God against differences and schisms, making it impossible for anyone to create a new sect or faction of belief.   ABU0130


Abdul-Baha is the ark of the new covenant provided by Baha'o'llah in this day. Those who enter into this protection will avoid the flood of doubts and uncertainty which is gradually engulfing the world.   ABU2771

If a soul shall utter a word without the sanction of the Covenant, he is not firm. Baha'u'llah appointed a Covenant to ward off dissensions: so that no one can have his own opinion--so that the Center can be referred to.  AB09744

But being a Branch, through the clear saying of the Blessed Perfection, depends upon turning to and obeying the Centre of the Covenant and the Point of Promise. The Branch will be entirely cut off, if it ceases to turn (to this Centre).   AB00702

They must not attempt to surpass that name, "'Abdu'l-Baha". All must say to others that he claims for himself to be 'Abdu'l-Baha and the believers must call him by his name as he wishes. This is the only name he has appointed for himself.   ABU3177

This mighty Covenant and Testament He took from all the friends through the Supreme Pen, first from the Branches, Twigs and relatives, and commanded obedience and turning to him, and through the Supreme Pen clearly stated that the intention of this verse of the Kitab-i-Aqdas referred to the Most Great Branch  AB00602

I am the Expounder of the Words revealed by the Blessed Beauty. I have been expressly appointed by the All-Glorious Pen. It is incumbent upon everyone to bear allegiance to Me. All matters must be referred to the Interpreter. In the future, however, everyone must turn to the divinely ordained House of Justice.   ABU3313

First He took a covenant and testament from the Branches and Twigs and relatives in explicitly clear terms that admit of no interpretation, saying that after My ascension you must turn to the Branch that has branched from the Ancient Root, and in clear terms He states that what is meant by this Branch branched from the Ancient Root is such-and-such person.   AB02573

Were not the mighty stronghold of the Cause of God to remain protected by the power of the Covenant, there would arise in a single day a thousand different sects among the Baha'is, even as was the case in former Dispensations. But in this holy Dispensation, to ensure the preservation of the Cause of God and to avoid dissension amongst His people, the Blessed Beauty -- may my soul be a sacrifice unto Him -- hath, through the agency of His supreme pen, established a Covenant and Testament and appointed a Centre, who is the expounder of the Book and the dispeller of discord. Whatsoever this Centre doth write or say is conformable to the truth and free from error under the protection of the Blessed Beauty. The very purpose of this Covenant and Testament is to dispel discord throughout the world.   AB05591
