By the True One! Thou hast asked about a station greater than the creation of the heavens and earth, which God hath placed above the testimonies of His servants - none shall understand it save them that are endued with knowledge. Yea, people understand according to their ranks and stations, not according to that which hath been ordained for it. Glorified, glorified be He above all that ye ask! If thou wouldst rend asunder the veil from thine eyes and ascend unto the holy atmosphere in this air that wafteth in this heaven, and detach thyself from all who are in the heavens and earth and from every prolonged matter, the Spirit would cast into thy breast from this station that which would make thee independent of all that hath been created and shall be created, and sufficient unto thee above all things that were and that shall be.  BH00431

Through Your grace You have chosen servants whom You have purified for Your presence, directed to Your beauty, and made intimate with Your countenance. You have raised them from their slumber as heralds of Your Cause, turning to Your Word, promoting Your religion, and stirring hearts dormant to the fire of Your love. These are the stars of Your guidance, the lamps of Your bounty, the landmarks of Your religion, the emblems of Your law, the standards of Your guidance, and the waves of the ocean of Your bounty. Through them the earth has shone forth, through them the mountains have been set in motion, through them the seas have surged, the firm mountains have been scattered, regions have trembled, plains and hills and dwellings have been watered, and through them the clouds have poured forth and the sleeping gardens have bloomed.  AB00349

Praise be to Him Who hath created a luminous reality, a most merciful essence, a spiritual existence, a divine substance, a radiant pearl, and a brilliant and unique gem, and made it the channel of the supreme bounty, the bond of the Most Great Covenant, and the means of the highest gift. Through it flowed the bounties of its Lord and poured forth the desires of its people.   AB00298

Moses beheld the light of guidance from the kindled fire in the Sinai Tree...But thou hast beheld the light of the Most Great Guidance in the blessed Mount of Certitude, the holy valley of the All-Merciful, as a kindled fire in the Blessed Tree of Man  AB07583

Then, through the requirements of the establishment of the Sovereign of justice upon the throne of mercy and grace, He created, through pure origination and sheer invention, the Point of existence and the Praiseworthy Countenance, which has been expressed through various terms such as the Eternal Countenance, the Divine Reed, the Primal Point, the Warbling of the Dove, the Perfect Word of Manifestation, the Divine Identity of the Cloud of Unknowing, and the Countenance of Ahmad and Muhammad.   BH00476

The supreme and most important happening in the human world is the Manifestation of God and the descent of the law of God. The holy, divine Manifestations did not reveal themselves for the purpose of founding a nation, sect or faction. They did not appear in order that a certain number might acknowledge Their Prophethood. They did not declare Their heavenly mission and message in order to lay the foundation for a religious belief. Even Christ did not become manifest that we should merely believe in Him as the Christ, follow Him and adore His mention. All these are limited in scope and requirement, whereas the reality of Christ is an unlimited essence. The infinite and unlimited Reality cannot be bounded by any limitation. Nay, rather, Christ appeared in order to illumine the world of humanity, to render the earthly world celestial, to make the human kingdom a realm of angels, to unite the hearts, to enkindle the light of love in human souls, so that such souls might become independent, attaining complete unity and fellowship, turning to God, entering into the divine Kingdom, receiving the bounties and bestowals of God and partaking of the manna from heaven. Through Christ they were intended to be baptized by the Holy Spirit, attain a new spirit and realize the everlasting life. All the holy precepts and the announcements of prophetic laws were for these various and heavenly purposes.  ABU0020


Although those Manifestations are outwardly raised up in human form, in reality they are holy essences and sanctified realities.  AB00939


Christ was the Sun, others are mirrors.  AB10306

Verily I am the Proof of God and His Light   BB00649

"Verily the Ocean hath appeared in human form"   BH04264

He is the One speaking from the Supreme Horizon   BH09626

God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment, hath come!   BH07819

He calleth all unto God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH05663


when there came to them the Manifestation of His Essence   BH07200

the actors of our drama are the Holy Manifestation of God  ABU2037

the Dayspring of His Cause, the Luminous, the Resplendent   BH09484

The Lord of the nations and Educator of the world has come  BH08322

This 'Self' is found in 'Perfection' in the Prophet, only.   ABU3515

The president of that gathering is His Holiness Baha'u'llah.  ABU2640

He is the reformer of the world and the educator of nations.   BH05274

The Manifestations of God are the focal centers of the world.  ABU1729

The Creator of the heavens hath come with manifest sovereignty.  BH08349

A Manifestation of God is a tangible part of the Great Concord.   ABU3602

He Who speaketh among the peoples is indeed the Goal of the world   BH09897

"He is holy above all these directions. He is heavenly and godly."  ABU2711

Then shalt thou witness My manifestation and My majesty and My beauty   BH03658

He Who has come is verily the Sovereign of existence, both seen and unseen.  BH10833

This is the Originator of the heavens and earth, were ye of them that know.   BH06674

the Dayspring of Revelation, around Whom circle all that is hidden and veiled  BH09428

Behold, the Sun hath dawned from the horizon of the heaven of manifestation.   BH04597

The Most Great Vision hath appeared, yet the people have turned away from it.   BH08867

His Holiness, BAHA'O'LLAH, is unique and peerless. All must turn to BAHA'O'LLAH.  AB11057

through the tongue of the Manifestation of Thyself and the Dayspring of Thy signs   BH06436

Baha'u'llah was the Sun of Reality, the Lord of Lords and the Manifestation of God.   ABU0842

the Ancient Beauty Who hath come in the name of 'Ali is the Truth of Truth upon Truth   BH10605

He is singular in His essence and unique in His being, it behooveth you to follow Him   BH03849

Manifest Justice, sent down from the heaven of your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise   BH07018

Exalted is He Who strengthened Him and established His station in the realm of creation   BH03780

This is He round Whom circled the Point of the First and with Him the Concourse on High.   BH05851

He Who was recorded in God's Books and mentioned in the hearts of the Messengers has come.  BH06260

Verily, We arose this day and desired this station which We have mentioned time and again   BH10819

The Blessed Perfection sways and subdues them all, and also all Prophets and all Religions.  ABU1858

He Who hath come is indeed the Hidden Mystery that was concealed in the eternity of eternities  BH11268

He is the Hidden Treasure and the Concealed Name. Through Him was opened the gate of mysteries   BH04464

His love is Thy love, and His self Thy self, and His beauty Thy beauty, and His Cause Thy Cause  BH06686

A one-year-old child of the Day of His Manifestation is mightier than all who are in the Bayan.  BH11811

This is the Youth of God among you, His manifestation in your midst, and His sovereignty over you  BH02613

In reply to all of these He declares: Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?  AB08407

the Manifestation of Thine Essence, and the Source of Thy power, and the Treasury of Thy mysteries   BH07125

He that hath come is the Wondrous, and His bidding the wonder of all that is in heaven and on earth  BH11675

The Editor of this newspaper is a man but the Editor of that newspaper is His Holiness Baha'u'llah.   ABU2626

the Manifestation of Thy Cause, the Dawning-Place of Thy verses and the Dayspring of Thy inspiration   BH04983

This is the Day of Revelation, and He Who conversed on Sinai is seated upon the throne of utterance.   BH05624

The Bayan was sent down to manifest My station and establish My Cause, yet the people understand not.   BH07134

He is the One Who gazeth from His most exalted horizon... He hath come for the salvation of the world   BH06658

This is the Day whereon He Who conversed on Sinai hath been established upon the throne of Revelation   BH06019

"Can any among the divines vie with Me in the arena of utterance? Nay, by thy Lord, the All-Merciful!"  BH03259

Thou hast made me the Qayyum over all names and the Manifestation of Thy signs between earth and heaven  BH09375

Every Prophet has His own particular Mission and function. He does not come merely to perform miracles.  ABU3203

This is He Who hath sent down the Book for His remembrance and God hath made it a leaf for His Paradise   BH10638

Observe how lofty is the station of the Revelation, while the people are as beasts in what base station   BH01712

He Who speaketh today is indeed the Manifestation of His Cause unto all who dwell in the realms of being.   BH05660

That which hath come unto you from your Lord is better for you - the Remnant of God, the Expected Leader.   BB00535

though in reality He was not subject to any, for, though his body was in prison, his Spirit was in Heaven.  ABU3505

Follow Him Who calleth you to a station round which circle the denizens of Paradise at eventide and at dawn   BH08061

manifesting Himself in such wise that even the eyes of those near unto God cannot behold Him as He truly is   BH07506

O people! I am the Manifestation of God amongst you, and His proof amidst you, and His sovereignty unto you   BH03991

Whoso denieth Me hath denied God and His Messengers. To this testifieth He before Whom the verses bow down.   BH03602

Know, O servants of God, that We have indeed favored Our servant above many whom We created with great favor  BB00002

He hath borne what no one before Him hath borne, and hath seen what the eyes of the Messengers have not seen.  BH05718

this is the station of Muhammad and his successors, where none can grasp anything of the wisdom of that rank   BB00383

He it is Who hath walked upon the approaches of the earth and raised His pavilion upon the most exalted spot.   BH10925

The condemnation of God be upon him who regards me either as a representative of the Imam or the gate thereof.  BBU0012

The One who is to come is he who was promised in the books of God and his epistles; that is, the Manifestation  AB11574

This is a gift belonging to the Holy Manifestations and those who are in the highest station - it is very rare.  ABU2873

The Promised One hath come with such sovereignty that all the hosts of the earth combined cannot withstand Him.   BH07197

Every proof hath bowed down before My Cause, and every evidence hath yielded to this manifest and mighty proof.   BH04044

The Most Great Spectacle hath appeared and the Lord of Destiny is established upon the throne of His Great Name   BH05484

The divine Manifestations are expressive of the attributes and perfections of God, the All-Praised, the Exalted   ABU3134

Him Whom Thou hast made the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Source of Thy Being and the Repository of Thy glory  BH03676

the Station wherein the Lord of Destiny proclaimeth: "There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Gracious."   BH09702

Lord God and the Lamb are the Temple, one Temple, the Holy Spirit in two bodies yet as one perfect Manifestation.  ABU0252

He is the true Herald Who appeared to inform the people, that they might make themselves ready and clear the paths  BH03061

He hath manifested Himself to establish that which is in the Books of God, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling   BH09418

That is why the sanctified ones and prophets never entertained unhappiness, because their happiness came from GOD.   ABU2355

the Station wherein the Lord of Names proclaimeth: "There is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise."   BH08870

As for my station, it is servitude to the Most Glorious Beauty. I would not exchange this servitude for any station   AB04805

He is indeed the One Who hath arisen at the midmost heart of the world and summoned all beings by His Most Great Name  BH10603

Whoso denieth Me hath denied God and His Messengers, and he who acknowledgeth it, verily he is in an exalted station   BH07494

Manifestation of Thine Essence and the Source of Thy verses and the Dawning-Place of Thy grandeur amongst Thy servants   BH06570

Blessed is the ear that hath heard the call of God, and the heart that hath turned unto the Kaaba of them that are nigh  BH05548

He cannot be known except through Him, nor can He be described by what hath been sent down to the Sources of knowledge.   BH04808

In the human world, in human form are the Holy Manifestations who are worshipped by all existence and all created things  ABU0544

The Beauty of the Divine Identity was among you and ye were among those who denied Him, until He departed from your midst  BH08900

rejected Thy manifestation in the Manifestation of Thyself and the dawning of Thy light from the Dayspring of Thy oneness  BH07676

The whole world and whatsoever is therein was, in its primal reality, created for the Dawning-Place of Divine Revelation.  BH06098

By God! The Mother Book hath testified to My manifestation and circled round Me, yet most of the people remain heedless.   BH05831

The Beauty hath shone forth from the horizon of glory - turn ye toward Him with your hearts. He is with you and seeth you   BH04299

Everything of him pertained to God. To know him was to know God. To have him was to have God. To obey him was to obey God.  ABU2876

The verses have testified to Him Who is the Manifestation of clear proofs, yet the people remain in wondrous intoxication.   BH07711

the Manifestation of Thyself, the Dayspring of Thine Essence, the Dawning-Place of Thy Will, and the Source of Thy Purpose   BH07671

It is not impossible that He should have been, though it is not necessary that all Manifestations should come in that way.   ABU3491

He Who appeared with the name of Husayn before 'Ali was a manifestation of His Self and His sovereignty unto all the worlds.  BH07866

The Beloved crieth out from the Supreme Horizon: 'By God, the Best-Beloved hath come! He, verily, is the Treasured Secret!'   BH06246

He it is Whose head God hath adorned with the crown of the exalted Word: But for Thee, I would not have created the spheres.  BH04620

The Wronged One is not the Tree that spoke forth on Mount Sinai. He is but a servant who hath believed in God and His verses.  BH08515

The Promised One of all peoples was a universal Manifestation, and the universal Manifestation corresponded to all the signs   AB04329

The Balance is He Who is manifest from His most exalted horizon...and I am the Straight Path...and I am the Luminous Horizon.   BH05882

Verily He appeared once in the name of Ali, once in the name of Muhammad, and once in the name of the Spirit, if ye but knew.   BH02709

Whoso hath turned unto Him hath turned unto God, the Lord of all men, and whoso hath turned away is assuredly among the losers   BH07706

He is the Promised One of all the nations, the Heavenly Teacher of all the world and the Physician of the hearts and the souls   AB06546

Another soars to such a high summit of perfection and perspicacity as to become the Sign of God and the Instructor of humanity.  ABU2576

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath come into the world is verily the Most Great Name  BH09419

His Holiness Christ was once eating grapes. He said, I will not eat grapes again until I eat them anew with you in the Kingdom'   ABU2679

Hearken unto that which the King of Kings proclaimeth unto thee: Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Beloved   BH09771

The Beloved hath appeared in truth, and He, verily, is the Desired One of the heavens and earth, yet most of the people know not.  BH09230

He is the One Who gazeth from His most exalted horizon...Verily, there is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the All-Bountiful.   BH06065

God have mercy on one who knows his station and rank at the time when Names were bestowed upon the world. You did not exist then.  BH08893

This person in the human form is the "divine station" mentioned in the Bible: "Let us make man in our image after our likeness."   AB00438

Whoso cleaveth unto Him hath indeed been guided by the lights of God, and whoso turneth away hath strayed from the straight path.   BH08058

whatsoever hath flowed and continueth to flow from the Most Exalted Pen hath been and ever shall be for the elevation of humanity   BH06030

By the life of God! He desireth naught for Himself and uttereth only that which God hath commanded Him, the Mighty, the Beauteous.   BH07520

He Who is the Lord of Eternity doth testify from the Most Great Prison that He is God, the Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH06725

"When He took His seat upon the throne, the Primal Point prostrated himself saying: 'Verily, I am the first of them that worship.'"   BH02607

He Who hath appeared is verily the Manifestation of His knowledge, the Dawning-Place of His utterance and the Dayspring of His proof   BH08872

Verily He is the Dawning-Place of Revelation and the Source of inspiration, and unto Him return all the most excellent names of God.   BH02485

He was hidden in the eternity of eternities, and when He willed to appear, He appeared in truth and manifested whatsoever He desired.   BH09417

until the Cause reached unto the Lord of all creation and Pride of all existence, Who was the Manifestation of this most exalted Word   BH06392

"This is the Day wherein the Tongue of Grandeur speaketh and commandeth you to that which profiteth you, if ye be of them that know."   BH04235

"God testifieth that there is none other God but Me, the All-Knowing. We have indeed informed all of the Day of God and His presence"   BH03508

O people! If ye believed in God before, how is it that ye believe not in Him around Whom circle the angels of the highest heaven?  BH05540

God has left no proof for any soul after the Remembrance and this Book, so be patient in truth for God, the Praiseworthy, at that Gate.  BB00002

Thus it is that God in all His actions is distinct from all others, just as a wise man displays in all his actions the signs of wisdom.  ABU2440

Blessing and peace be upon the Lord of the world and Educator of the nations, through Whom messengership and prophethood were concluded   BH04703

Whoso hath heard from Him hath heard from God, and whoso hath turned unto Him hath turned unto God, the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting.   BH02619

He Who speaketh is the Most Great Sign among all created things and the Manifestation of God unto all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH08875

O people of Baha! Rejoice in My manifestation, My dawning, and My sovereignty that hath encompassed all in the seen and unseen realms.  BH08321

All the Books and Tablets have appeared in the temple of the Youth. Glorified then be He Who hath appeared with power and sovereignty!   BH04973

Were the veil to be lifted from the face of the Youth, the tongues of all created things would proclaim: "By God! This is a wondrous king!"   BH02486

Verily I am the Fire of the Interlocutor around the Mount that spoke in the Tree: There is no God but He, and God hath ever been My witness.  BB00002

though even at this stage it is manifest that the very pebbles of the earth are charged with knowing My name, even if they know not My form   BB00470

The text discusses the four stations or levels of the Manifestation: servitude, Imamate, Prophethood, and divine station ("Verily I am God").  AB07770

The Manifestations have been cut off, leading to the Most Great Manifestation, the Most Subtle Symbol, the Ancient Light, the Lord of Nations  AB11054

All this is due to their connection with My Name, the Revealer, and verily it hath ever been sanctified above all that is mentioned and known   BH02847

Every Manifestation is but a revelation of Thine Own Self, with each of Whom we have truly appeared and we bow down in adoration before Thee.   BB00426

He Who was hidden within the pavilions of grandeur and power and in the treasure of thy Lord's protection, the Most High, the Great, hath come   BH03838

Know thou that God hath ordained no veil between the servant and Him, and verily the veil existeth through God from the point of turning away.   BB00158

Verily, I am the Manifestation Who shall not be questioned of His doings, whereas all else besides Me shall be questioned of what they do.  BB00004

He, verily, is the sanctuary of peace for all who are in the heavens and on earth, and the dawning-place of bounty for every small one and great  BH08346

Peace be upon him whom God distinguished through Muhammad, His Beloved, whom He selected from the midst of eternity above all contingent beings.  BB00332

In prayer one must turn his face towards the sanctified Reality of His Holiness Baha'u'llah - that Reality which surrounds all phenomena.  AB01787

Thou didst manifest the Dawning-Place of Thy signs, the Dayspring of Thy clear tokens, the Repository of Thy knowledge and the Source of Thy Cause  BH05467

O thou who gazest upon My countenance and hast clung to the hem of My robe! Verily thy Lord, the Most Glorious, maketh mention of thee amongst men   BH10903

He is the Manifestation of His Cause, the Dawning-Place of His Revelation, and the Dayspring of His Will to all who are in the heavens and on earth  BH07708

the station wherein the Lord of Names and Creator of the heavens proclaims: "Verily there is no God but Me, the Truth, the Knower of things unseen"  BH06628

He Who hath come is verily the hidden, treasured, and guarded Mystery, to Whom the Books of God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, have testified   BH07703

He speaketh before all faces: "The Kingdom is God's, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting," and beareth witness that there is none other God but Him.   BH06712

By God! This is My Beauty, then My Manifestation, and My Power, and My Sovereignty. He hath appeared unto you greater than what I revealed unto you   BH01677

This is He but for Whom the Bayan would not have been revealed, nor would the verses of God, the Mighty King, the All-Knowing, have been sent down.   BH01391

The Promise hath come, and this is the Promised One Who calleth out with the most exalted call amidst the peoples. He hath desired naught for Himself  BH05482

Beware lest ye measure it by what ye possess. God hath made it sanctified above all likeness and comparison - verily He is the All-Knowing, the Wise.   BH03499

He is manifest above all things and He is the King, the All-Glorious. His is the dominion of the divinity of all things and all exist by His command.   BB00433

Verily, direct thou thine own self towards His Kingdom, that thou mayest perceive that His traces and authority continue forever and will never cease!  AB04596

send Thy blessings upon the First to appear with Thy Beauty and the Last to manifest Thy Majesty, and upon Thy exalted Mirrors and Thy wondrous Letters  BH06626

Turn with your heart to this Station which has appeared and shone forth from the holy horizon, whereon the Youth has arisen with manifest sovereignty.   BH05920

God bears witness that there is none other God but Him and He Who has come with the truth is indeed the Sovereign of Revelation, the Speaker on Sinai.   BH05417

Turn with illumined hearts toward the Crimson Tree which speaketh at all times: "Verily, there is none other God besides Me, the Mighty, the Generous."  BH04276

Verily I am the Mirror of God, my Lord; all turn unto Me. Verily I commune from the most exalted horizon. I hear what ye utter and observe what ye do.   BB00437

God testifies that there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting. And He testifies that We [answered] Muhammad, Our servant, before and after   BH09413

the station wherein the Dawning-Place of Thy verses, the Manifestation of Thy clear tokens, and the Source of Thy commandments and ordinances doth speak   BH05744

Verily this is the Preserved Tablet and the Hidden Secret and the Concealed Mystery and the Source of Eternity for all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH08229

He hath appeared in such wise as hath never appeared its like in all creation, as witnesseth he who hath opened his eyes through the light of recognition.   BH06181

He is manifest in that Temple, the Temple of God in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and unto Him shall all return.  BB00004

Verily He hath seated Himself upon the Throne, and at His right hand sitteth the Primal Point, addressing the veiled ones among the concourse of the Bayanis  BH04388

He Who hath appeared is verily the Dayspring of My Cause amidst My servants and the Orient of My Revelation unto all who are in the heavens and on the earth   BH10601

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath appeared is, verily, the One mentioned in the Books of God, the Lord of all worlds.  BH04753

This is your Lord, the Chosen One, Who has come with the truth - and every atom proclaims: "The Kingdom belongeth to God, the Almighty, the All-Compelling!"   BH02478

To comprehend the Sun of Reality we would have to be greater (than the Sun). The Mirror of the Prophet cannot expand sufficiently to comprehend the Infinite.  ABU2924

O people! He hath come Who cannot be indicated by the signs of creation nor walketh in their ways. He hath appeared and made manifest His straight Path.   BH01506

Thou hast established in creation the Manifestation of Thyself as the station of Thine own Self, so that whatsoever proceedeth from Thee returneth unto Thee.   BB00302

Christ said unto His disciples: "Why callest thou me good? There is none good save the Father." "Be ye therefore perfect." Ye are Christ's and Christ is God.   ABU0835

The New Jerusalem hath descended from the realm of the divine Will, and the wilderness hath been honored and blessed by the footsteps of the Lord of all beings.   BH11163

"Among the people are they who have drawn nigh unto the Dayspring of Revelation, and among them are they who have waxed proud before God, the Revealer of verses"  BH05248

Through Him was established the proof of God and His beauty dawned and His Word was perfected and His Cause was exalted above the former and latter generations.   BH02540

"But Baha'u'llah is neither of the East nor of the West, neither of the South nor of the North. He is holy above all these directions. He is heavenly and godly."  ABU2711

The Dove warbleth, and nothing between earth and heaven preventeth It from the remembrance of Its Lord, even were It to be caught in the claws of the oppressors.   BH09605

I seemed to be standing...in the place of the Imam himself. More and yet more crowded in, taking their places in rows behind Me, until there was a vast multitude.  ABU3363

Verily, He is the Manifestation of the Most Great Sign which God, the Lord of Names, hath sent down: He is the First and the Last, and the Manifest and the Hidden   BH03313

He said that He speaketh in all things: 'Verily I am God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Beloved.' This is a matter none hath known save His own Self, the True One.   BH05117

These are the Manifestations of His Cause, the Dawning-Places of His revelation, the Recipients of His knowledge and the Rising-Points of His wisdom among creation.  BH04614

The Supreme Pen has been occupied night and day with counsels and admonitions, commanding that which elevates the station of man and forbidding that which lowers it.   BH07793

He Who speaketh with truth is indeed the Wronged One in this mighty prison. By God! Neither the opposition of the divines nor the power of princes hath deterred Him.   BH06209

By God, none hath any protection today from God's decree except by believing in this Beauty Who hath come upon clouds of holiness, surrounded by hosts of revelation.   BH03464

This is the time wherein He Who conversed with God on Sinai hath seated Himself upon the throne of Revelation, despite every remote scholar and suspicious commander.   BH03056

Compare not the Soul of God with any other, nor His words with that which people utter, nor what He possesseth with what ye possess, if ye be of those who comprehend.  BH11711

With a number of believers we were standing in His holy Presence and He was in the course of delivering a talk on the spiritual station of the Manifestations of God.   ABU1336

Mohammed was the Advocate who was to come after Christ. Every prophet was given of the spirit according to the conditions of the people at the time of his appearance.  ABU1002

Know thou that the Gift is Mine Own Self, and the Bounty is that which hath been sent down to thee from this Quarter. By God! Nothing in earth or heaven can equal it.   BH03323

The Dawn hath appeared upon the Temple of Man. Verily this is the Book of the All-Merciful which was mentioned in the Scriptures of God, the Most High, the Most Great.   BH08934

This is the Youth of God who standeth among you and calleth you unto the path of His good-pleasure. He hath sacrificed His soul for His Cause, the Mighty, the Powerful.  BH07019

Thou didst make him the station of Thy grandeur in recognition and power, for Thou hast ever been what Thou art, unconnected with the making of creation and its people   BB00152

The holy divine Manifestations are all heavenly Artists. Upon the canvas of creation with the brush of their deeds and [lives] and actions, they paint immortal pictures  ABU2866

O Solace of the Eye! I am in truth the Gate of God. I give you to drink, by God's leave, from the pure spring, the water of manifestation upon the face of the Mount.  BB00002

God is to every human being as great as the individual mental capacity permits one to see Him. So, also, is the Manifestation who represents Him in this world of beings.   ABU1853

He Who hath made thee to know the Manifestation of His Self, and by this hath inscribed thy name by the Most Exalted Pen in the Tablet which none hath discovered save God   BH07223

It is worthy of a perfect being to have a sweet and fragrant disposition and temperament. Loving-kindness befits Him, not wrath! Sweet honey is worthy of Him, not poison.   AB01675

O people! The Beloved of the worlds hath appeared, and He, verily, is the One Who sent Muhammad aforetime, and before Him the Spirit, and before Him the Interlocutor.   BH04387

Verily He Who speaks in truth is the Manifestation of God and His Mystery, the Concealment of God and His Command, the Proof of God and His Word unto all who are on earth.   BH03099

The Mystic is he who knoweth the Manifestation of My Self in My Beauty which dawneth forth through My Name in the vesture of Mine Order that is sanctified from all except Me  BH11128

He Who speaketh with truth is verily the Hidden Secret, and the Treasured Book, and the Most Exalted Pen, and the Ultimate Goal, and the Source of Command among all peoples   BH07144

And verily 'Ali-Qabli-Nabil is the Manifestation of His Essence, the Source of His knowledge, and the Dawning-Place of His Cause for all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH06945

O people of earth! Hearken unto the call of God from this Arabian Youth, whom He hath chosen for Himself. He is, in truth, by the truth, ordained to be round about the Fire.  BB00002

He Who was hidden in the eternity of eternities, and Who is the Speaker of the Mount Who proclaims: "Verily, there is no God but I, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting."   BH07413

In the Manifestation of the Holy Divine Manifestations, these hearts are purified from outward effects. The Holy Divine Manifestations have come to give insight to creation.   ABU0860

The Most Great Glory, the power and might and sovereignty and inner grandeur, belongs to that Lord of the world and Pride of Adam, which was and is and ever shall be with Him   BH08117

The Wronged One testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who speaketh is indeed He through Whom the Cause was manifested, the horizon of Revelation dawned   BH06608

the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation, the Dayspring of Thy verses, the Source of Thy Command, the Manifestation of Thy Self, and the Fountainhead of Thy knowledge and Thy laws   BH05635

Know thou, O servant, that My Manifestation is My proof, and My standing forth My evidence, and My proof that which floweth from My sacred, transcendent, firm and manifest Pen  BH04004

the Tree of the Bayan is the first Tree wherein appeared the Fire and spoke forth: "Verily, I am God, the Lord of all worlds," and verily He is the Sovereign of the Messengers   BH05054

The Wronged One bears witness to that which God bore witness before the creation of earth and heaven - that there is none other God but Him, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.   BH09932

He Who speaketh the truth is indeed the Speaker of Sinai through Whom those that lay buried have risen. Whoso turneth unto Him hath in truth turned unto God throughout all ages   BH07710

neither the conditions of the people of creation would prevent him from the Lord of Names, nor the doubts of the learned from Him Who came with the truth with mighty sovereignty   BH10264

He is none other than God, and He Who speaketh is verily the Path of God unto all who are in the heavens and on earth, and the Most Great Mercy unto all, whether small or great.   BH07918

He Who hath come from the heaven of grace with proof and evidence is verily the Manifestation of His Cause, the Revealer of His Self, and the Source of His commandments and laws   BH03378

The Day is come and the Spirit proclaimeth in the Tablet: There is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved. Is there doubt about the Manifestation or about His sovereignty?   BH03151

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who speaketh is the Manifestation of His Cause, the Dayspring of His signs, and the Source of every wise command   BH05422

The story of Baha'u'llah's response to the two believers debating whether he was God or the reflection of God demonstrates the complex nature of the station of the Manifestation.  ABU1046

Verily the Bird of Nearness hath taken flight of itself unto God, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Self-Subsisting. Ye recognized it not in its days and were heedless of its presence  BH04443

This is a station wherein was raised the call of the Prophets and Messengers. We heard and answered them as a token of Our grace, and We are verily the Answerer, the All-Knowing.   BH06733

O Ahmad! The station of the Manifestation is above what the servants mention of Him. Then shineth forth the light of unity and are extinguished the lamps of fancy and conjecture.   BH00319

This is the Day whereon He Who conversed with God hath been established upon the throne of utterance and calleth all who are in the realm of creation unto God, the Lord of Lords.   BH07878

In the same way the variation is in the soul of man, and not in the Manifestation, who remains fixed and eternal in His Station. All change related to us and our human conditions.  ABU1520

When the lights of the dawn of the Day shown forth and gleamed, the divines and mystics turned away from it, until they pronounced judgment against Him Who came with manifest wrong  BH02793

through Whom have shone forth the suns of the Command and appeared the signs of God and emerged the pearls of knowledge and risen the Beauty of the Unseen with luminous sovereignty  BH05547

He, verily, is the One Who speaketh the truth at the heart of the world...The Light walketh, and the Book speaketh, and the Ancient Beauty calleth out in the midst of the atmosphere  BH04205

Every one of the Manifestations of God is a perfect and accomplished being. They were all endowed with the divine characteristics, and have attained all the bounties and good deeds.  ABU0808

The Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) was content with being the Gate; the people did not accept it. He said "I am the Remnant of God"; the people did not accept it.  ABU0630

Can anyone speak in His presence? Nay, by the Lord of the Throne! But the people are behind a thick veil. Can anyone stand against Him? Nay, by His truth, were ye of them that know!   BH03717

Those who fear their Lord regarding the Gate, secretly and openly in truth - verily We have ordained for them by God's leave in the Hereafter forgiveness in truth and a great reward.  BB00002

This is a Day whereon God hath called out by His own Self. Blessed is he who hath heard and answered his Ancient Lord. They that are heedless this day are verily among the most lost.   BH05134

Rather, today, that which returneth unto this sacred Soul Who reciteth, on My behalf, My verses, shall return unto Me, and that which returneth not unto Him, shall not return unto Me.  BB00001

today the Manifestation of Power, the Dawning-Place of Revelation, the Dayspring of Inspiration, and the Source of Command is speaking openly and clearly among the people of the world   BH04057

He Who speaketh is the Manifestation of His Self, the Dawning-Place of His signs and the Dayspring of His Revelation. Whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto God, the Mighty, the Loving  BH05308

The Bayan hath testified to Me, and the Books cry out with My Name, the All-Knowing. Say: Every matter hath been made dependent upon My leave, and every Book upon My wise command.   BH03881

The centers of progress for each age are the manifestations of God as seen in his prophets. In whatever country or at whatever time they appear, they are the focus of the creational day  ABU1801

Hast thou seen the Hour manifested in the temple of man? Say: Yea, by my Lord, the All-Merciful! Verily it moveth and speaketh the truth with a sovereignty that encompasseth the worlds.   BH04557

And He Who hath come is verily the One mentioned in the highest heaven and inscribed in the Tablets of your Lord, the Most High, the Most Glorious, and promised in the radiant Scriptures.  BH10316

"She hath believed in the Manifestations of Thy unity appearing in the garments of Thy eternity and recognized the Dawning-places of Thy constancy in the holy temples of Thy sovereignty."  BH07724

He was named "Ali" amongst the people of the Bayan, and then Muhammad amongst the people of the Qur'an, and, in ancient times, was named with each one of the most excellent names of God.   BH02323

When this universal reality appeared in the realm of existence with all its conditions and perfections, the robe of vicegerency adorned it and became the ornament of its symmetrical figure  AB05563

Description of His sovereignty that cannot be withstood: "He Who was promised hath appeared with such sovereignty as neither the might of princes nor the clamor of divines could withstand"   BH02055

During Their days, the station of the Blessed Beauty and His Holiness the Exalted One - may My spirit be a sacrifice unto Both - was not evident, but in the future it will become apparent.   ABU1489

He, verily, is the One mentioned in the scriptures of God, the Lord of the worlds. The white earth hath been adorned by His coming, and the holy vale by the fragrances of His luminous robe.   BH10955

From the first day we attained to the knowledge of God, we have fixed our gaze upon this holy and eternal Manifestation, counting all lesser divine manifestations as non-existent before Him.  BH00004

This is none other than the Beauty of the Ancient of Days, the embellished Mystery, and the Most Great Name, may my spirit and the spirit of all existence be a sacrifice for His sacred dust   AB06522

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth is indeed the Promised One mentioned in the Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting   BH08277

Exalted be their station, exalted be their rank, exalted be their might and glory and their loftiness and transcendence and their arising to promote the Cause of God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH07135

How much more so before the rising of the resplendent Sun of Thy Reality and the appearance of Thy Most Exalted Similitude, Thy divine Essence and Thy heavenly Being and Thy merciful Reality!  AB02025

He hath made known unto thee the Manifestation of His Self and the Dawning-Place of His verses when He came with the truth through this Most Great Name, whereby the worlds have been illumined.   BH09759

We have laid no claim to Prophethood, nor to successorship, nor to that which the people possess. To this testifieth He Who is the Self-Subsisting, and he who hath knowledge of mysteries.   BH04554

He is indeed the One Whose mention the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur'an, and before it in the Torah and the Gospel. He hath not entered any school, and speaketh by His innate knowledge   BH02464

by Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers and Thy chosen ones and Thy loved ones, whom Thou hast made the emblems of Thy guidance amidst Thy creation and the banners of Thy triumph throughout Thy lands  BH05270

By God! Every member of My body crieth out: O people! He is verily the Beloved of those who know, and every hair of Mine proclaimeth: O people! He is verily the Object of worship of all worlds.   BH05971

I am the Beauty of God on earth, His Proof amidst His servants, His Evidence amongst His creation, His Testament in His realm, and His Path amongst His creatures, would that ye might know.   BH02202

Verily I say! No one hath apprehended the root of this Cause. None among the Manifestations of old, except to a prescribed degree, hath ever completely apprehended the nature of this Revelation.  BH02178

I am but a man like you, it is revealed to me that I am your Lord - will you not be certain? Say: I have no power except through God, there is no God but Him, the Powerful, the Omnipotent.   BB00339

Our Lord said the Muhammadans were accustomed to think Mahomet the greater because of his title "Seal of the Prophets," but in the time of Jesus spirituality and spiritual life was far greater.   ABU3507

Is it possible that one can accept a book and refuse to accept him who teaches it? Is it possible to accept the sun and to reject its rays? He who rejects the rays is a rejector of the sun, too.  ABU1992

A Manifestation that has remembered God, glorified be His glory, with utmost greatness, testified to His knowledge, and confessed His sanctification and transcendence above all peers and likeness  BH00048

"The Tablet of the Command hath come to us from the Dayspring of destiny with resplendent lights, and it is indeed detailed from the Preserved Tablet which God hath sent in the form of the Youth."   BH03004

From the horizon of tribulation hath dawned the Sun, upon which hath been inscribed by the Most Glorious Pen: "The Prison belongeth unto God, the One, the Peerless, the Mighty, the Unconstrained."   BH04776

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath appeared in truth is verily the Dawning-Place of His Revelation, the Dayspring of His Cause, and the Manifestation of His Self.   BH03959

He has appeared with sovereignty from His presence and has revealed what He willed. He is the Mighty, the Powerful...He is the One before Whom, when He appeared, the verses bowed down in submission  BH02712

Yet none shall attain unto the Manifestation of Thy Self at that time, even as Thou seest upon that mountain, for nothing can know Him as beseemeth Thy knowledge, though all may claim to know Him.   BB00130

This is He but for Whom no Divine Messenger would have been invested with the robe of prophethood, nor would any of the sacred scriptures have been revealed. To this bear witness all created things   BH08326

God hath placed in that Gate a mystery within the most hidden mystery, treasured. Soon shall ye know what ye knew not before, in truth, in the garment of the Sun, by leave of God, the Exalted, soon.  BB00002

This Station of Praise is the assemblage of all perfect attributes and complete bounty and all-encompassing grace - that is, it is the holy Will and the manifestation of all the merciful qualities.   AB07544

He Who hath appeared in truth is verily the Most Straight Path amidst all nations, and the Balance of Guidance unto all creatures, and the Sign of Grandeur unto all who are in the heavens and earths   BH10602

He Who speaketh is indeed the One mentioned in the Books, the Scriptures and the Tablets. Through Him knowledge hath appeared before the faces of the world and the Sun of Understanding hath shone forth  BH04047

And He Who hath come from the horizon of eternity is indeed the cloud of My mercy and the heaven of My grace and the Dawning-Place of My verses and the Source of My sovereign commands to all the worlds.  BH10353

The Person of the Manifestation hath ever been the representative and mouthpiece of God. He, in truth, is the Day Spring of God's most excellent Titles, and the Dawning-Place of His exalted Attributes.   BH01652

the Primal Point is the Glory of God unto all who are in the heavens and the earth, His proof unto all who dwell in the kingdoms of Command and creation, and His evidence unto all who are upon the earth  BH11722

Should God so desire, He would renew all created things through a word from His presence. He, verily, is the One Who has power over whatsoever He willeth and Who ruleth over whatsoever He desireth.   BH01823

Verily, I am the Qa'im Whose Day all await, and through Whom all have been promised. God hath created Me by His command and made Me to stand over every soul by virtue of what God hath vouchsafed unto Me.  BB00330

the Lord of Revelation...He verily draweth thee nigh, teacheth thee, causeth thee to know, and raiseth thee to a station wherein thou shalt behold naught in all existence save the Sovereign of the Kingdom  BH09712

Seek ye forgiveness for what ye have thought concerning Him Who was among you but as one like yourselves. Though ye traverse the earth, ye shall find none like unto Him - and God is witness to this.   BH05177

Know, O servants of God, that God hath preferred Us above you through His grace, and We have preferred Our servant above you through Our preference for you, if ye be patient concerning His signs in truth.  BB00002

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who speaketh is verily the Dayspring of His Cause, in both the past and the future, and He, verily, is the Truth, the Knower of the unseen.   BH08868

He Who speaketh at the bidding of His Lord is but the First to worship Him. He is the peerless Creator Who hath created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever lieth between them, and all do His bidding.   BB00520

When they came into His Spiritual Presence they were awed with the Majesty of His Appearance and the Magnetism of His Countenance. They listened to His words with rapt attention and went away dumbfounded.   ABU2263

None knows your measure for it is God's measure, nor your station for it is God's station. None can encompass your description for it is God's description, nor your attributes for they are God's attributes.  BB00337

Through Him hath His proof appeared and His argument been perfected and His Word been fulfilled and His countenance shone forth and His evidence been established unto all who are in the heavens and on earth   BH04148

"Follow, O people, Him Who hath appeared with all the signs, around Whom circle the realities of the Prophets, then the spirits of the chosen ones, then those who dwell behind the pavilions of the Command."   BH03333

Verily He has come with that which no one has brought, and has revealed the equivalent of what all the parties possess of the Books of the Prophets and Messengers, nay rather more, were ye of those who know.   BH05612

the Pearl of the promised ocean, and the honored and praiseworthy Symbol, the Praised One, the Guided One, and the first to shine forth from the tablets of His eternal mystery, the Pure, the Holy, the Loving   BB00432

"He Who cometh, verily He is the Self-Subsisting over all who are in the heavens and on earth, and that which appeareth from Him testifieth that He is indeed the Self-Sufficient, the Mighty, the All-Praised."   BH05817

He Who is named Baha in the Kingdom of Names is indeed the Manifestation of God between earth and heaven, and the Most Great Word in the Concourse on High, and the Mighty Announcement in the cities of eternity   BH01478

Thus every human's progress and ascent is within his own rank and the degree of the human world. However, the effulgent reality that encompasses the world of existence is exclusive to the Divine Manifestations.  ABU2566

Moses, Jesus, Mohammed and the Bab were the four greatest prophets, because they reflected the Light of God to a greater degree than any of the others, and they left books to guide the people in the way of God.  ABU0299

They had likewise announced that at the time of the manifestation of that Dawning-Place of divine effulgences, all the Prophets and Messengers, even the Qa'im Himself, would gather beneath His blessed standard.   BH09648

In it hath appeared the Most Great Sign, manifested in human form. Blessed be God, Lord of all kings, through Whom the divine fragrances have wafted, the Word hath appeared, and those in the graves have arisen.   BH08985

Christ has come from heaven, but in a body just as Jesus did. If Elijah and Enoch went to heaven, they must have come from there, but it was not their bodies which went there, but their essence, just like Christ's.  ABU2375

The Blessed Perfection does not mean His body. This body is now interred in the Holy Tomb. When we say the Blessed Perfection we mean the Reality, and the Reality of the Blessed Perfection is living and everlasting.  ABU1052

We bear witness that thou didst answer the Call of the Lord of all beings when it was raised between earth and heaven, and didst acknowledge His Manifestation and His sovereignty and His establishment upon the throne   BH10780

Remember the Wronged One, He Whose mention all the Prophets and Messengers have heard in the divine Books, Tablets and Scriptures, and Who, by divine command, they have all given glad tidings of to all created things.   BH10131

The purpose of the one true God, exalted be His glory, hath been to bring forth the Mystic Gems out of the mine of man -- they Who are the Dawning-Places of His Cause and the Repositories of the pearls of His knowledge  BH00005

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath come with the truth is indeed the Hidden Secret and the Treasured Symbol, and through Him hath God sent down the proof and made manifest the way   BH04751

But -- praise be to God! -- your Teacher and Instructor is Baha'u'llah. He is the Educator of the Orient and Occident. He is the Teacher of the very world of divinity and spirituality, the Sun of Truth, the Word of God.  ABU0900

this station which hath been named by all names by God, the Originator of the heavens, wherein the Interlocutor of the Mount spoke and wherein appeared that which was recorded in the Books of God, the Lord of the worlds   BH04873

And verily this is He before Whom walk the Manifestations of truth, behind Whom proceed the Daysprings of divinity, at Whose right hand move the Essences of glory and at Whose left advance the Temples of the All-Merciful  BH01547

God testifies that there is no God but Him and that 'Ali-Qabli-Nabil is His servant and His Glory. The days of servitude have passed and the Glory has appeared with a sovereignty that has encompassed all created things.   BH00447

He it is Who hath sent forth in the kingdom a servant and favored him with His verses, that he might fill the heavens and the earth and all that lieth between them with the knowledge that there is none other God but Him   BB00392

until ye drove from His homeland this Bird that dwelt therein by the command of the All-Wise, the All-Knowing... inform thy people that the Bird hath taken flight - the Bird whose departure or death was their only desire   BH01239

He Who hath come is verily the Manifestation of My Self, the Dawning-Place of My verses and the Dayspring of My Cause, the firm, the impregnable. Whoso hath turned unto Him hath in truth turned unto Me throughout all ages   BH03855

"Barter not away this Youth, O people, for the vanities of this world or the delights of heaven. By the righteousness of the one true God! One hair of Him excelleth all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth."  BH01591

Thy oneness is not established except through Him Who speaketh by Thy leave, and Thy singleness is not realized save through acknowledgment of Him Who hath arisen by Thy Command and appeared from the horizon of Thy majesty   BH07114

And that 'Ali before Nabil is the Manifestation of His Self to all who are in the heavens and on earth, and He hath sent Him with a proof that confoundeth the minds of the wise and the hearts of them that are near unto God.  BH06440

For verily I am the Manifestation of God and all besides God is His creation, and the Letters of Truth are nearer than all else unto God. Through them God initiated this creation and through them will He cause it to return.  BB00004

they whom God hath made the guides of His creation and the manifestations of His Cause and the dawning-places of His revelation and the treasury of the pearls of His utterance and the repository of the mysteries of His days   BH03311

Thy Beloved One Whom Thou hast made the Dawning-Place of Thy names and the Dayspring of Thy attributes and the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Source of Thy Will and the Ocean of Thy knowledge and the Heaven of Thy wisdom   BH01692

"This, verily, is the shadow of God upon earth, and His beauty in the heaven of Command and Creation, and His proof unto all who dwell in the kingdom of the clouds and the Throne, and He is, in truth, a victorious Sovereign."  BH04972

Salutation and praise rest upon the Luminous Reality, and the Most Sublime All-embracing Word, and the Mighty Sign, and Shining Resplendent Essence, the Primal Point, and the Exalted Beauty, may my life be a sacrifice unto Him  AB02485

He is but one of My servants whom We created through Our power and caused to speak in praise of My Self amongst the worlds. And if for a moment he should deviate from the shadow of the Cause, he would be utter nothingness.  BH06114

those whom God made the Dawning-Places of His Cause, the Rising-Points of His Names, the Manifestations of His Signs, the Recipients of His Revelation, the Sources of His Clear Proofs, and the Settings of His penetrating Wisdom  BH01809

Mine is the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and unto Me shall all things return in their beginning and their end. Say: the glory of every land belongeth unto Him Whom We shall make manifest.  BB00020

O Mahdi! This is a station that none among the servants hath known from the beginning that hath no beginning, nor shall anyone ascend unto it save through My might, My power, and My sovereignty that hath encompassed all regions.   BH00898

The Divine Messengers are the perfect teachers-teachers for the whole world; all that pertains to the universal order is from God. This earth is a school in which mankind are the pupils. The Divine Messengers are God's teachers.   ABU1221

And Muhammad, the Apostle of God, ascended not unto heaven until He had perfected the entire Faith... And verily in relation to His own essence, no one can know Him save God and that which was above Him in the station of Lordship.  BB00065

He summoned the servants unto Thee and commanded them to pure piety in Thy days, and to gaze toward the horizon of Thy glory and to turn to the court of Thy grace...the Manifestation of Thy Cause and the Dawning-Place of Thy signs   BH08251

Thus does thy Lord choose thee and teach thee the interpretation of sayings and perfect His favor upon thee... We have chosen thee in truth and taught thee from the interpretation of the Book that which beseemeth none besides thee.  BB00002

Verily, this Youth is the sanctuary of holiness among the servants, the Kaaba of the Cause in all lands, the dwelling place of eternity for those in the kingdom of the divine cloud, and the beacon of knowledge for all in the realm.   BH02511

the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Dawning-Place of Thy Will, the Mine of Thy Wisdom, the Center of Thy Oneness, the Source of Thy Singleness, the Recipients of Thy verses, the Treasury of Thy mysteries, and the Source of Thy lights   AB00723

From the day of His manifestation to the present time He has been resuscitating hearts and quickening spirits. He has exercised that vivifying influence in the realm of hearts and spirits; therefore, His resuscitation is everlasting.  ABU0079

Salutations, peace, praise and glory be upon Him Whom He hath chosen from among His servants and made His vicegerent in His lands. Whoso turneth unto Him hath turned unto God, and whoso turneth away from Him hath turned away from Him.  BH02854

Divine Manifestations are a different creation...Prophets, therefore, have a station of their own...But observe what a banner of unique being Christ unfurled without friend or helper. All are from God but all have different stations.   ABU1840

"The Lord, the Sovereign King, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, hath come!" Blessed is he who hath attained His presence when He seated Himself upon the throne through His Name whereby He hath subdued all that are in the worlds.   BH09067

verily He is My very Self, and the Dayspring of Mine Essence, and the Dawning-Place of My Cause, and the heaven of My bounty, and the ocean of My Will, and the lamp of My guidance, and the path of My justice, and the balance of My laws   BH08919

The Book declares. What It declares? It declares that the Mystery has come. The Shell declares: The ideal Pearl has come. The Horizon declares: The most great Orb had dawned. The Sinaitic Mountain declares: The Interlocutor has appeared.  BH10128

For in the form of His physical frame - may God's blessings be upon Him and His family - none hath ever seen its like, nor is its equal possible in creation, nor can anyone doubt His special prophethood as manifested in His outward form.  BB00014

In this world all men must turn their faces toward "Him-whom God-shall-Manifest." He is the "Dawning-place of Divinity" and the "Manifestation of Deity." He is the "Ultimate Goal," the "Adored One" of all and the "Worshipped One" of all.  AB07321

He manifesteth Himself once unto all created things through His Most Great Name, then through His other Name, then again He manifesteth Himself through that which transcendeth all names and all who dwell in the most exalted Paradise.  BH04846

He has chosen you for the loftiness of His Self above the station of self, selected you for the greatness of His Self-Subsistence above the station of Lordship, chosen you for the eternity of His knowledge above the station of His giving   BB00120

Hearken to the call of the Manifestation of thy Lord, the One, the Single, Who hath taken unto Himself neither consort nor son. Verily, there is none other God but Him, the Peerless, the Self-Subsisting, the All-Compelling, the Ever-Abiding.   BH04638

And the interpreters have offered interpretations and investigations. But its true meaning is the comprehensiveness of all perfect attributes, which is the station of the supreme vicegerency of the human world, for this vicegerency is of God.  AB10954

Christ was heavenly, divine and belonged to the world of the Kingdom. He was the embodiment of spiritual knowledge. His intellect was superior to these philosophers, His comprehension deeper, His perception keener, His knowledge more perfect.   ABU0104

Now observe this - that the Holy Manifestations did not address such matters. It is certain that the hand of divine infallibility is upon this, otherwise by now it would have been the secret of every gathering and the minaret of every assembly.  AB05550

Verily My fragrances guide those who are brought near and My handmaidens to the garden of My companionship and the Kawthar of My grace and generosity. And the sweet-scented perfume of My garment guides the yearning ones to the Egypt of My beauty.  BH11849

O people! Hearken unto the call of God from this exalted, blessed Tree which hath grown in the holy land, the station of praiseworthy nearness, that there is none other God but Him, and that the Point of the Bayan is His Self and His Beauty   BH02612

The Beloved of Abha, with a face like the shining moon and a beauty like the radiant sun, unveiled Himself and lifted the veil in the gathering of contingent beings. Through His light He illumined the horizons of the kingdom of earth and heaven.   AB06299

O Haydar! Hearken to the melody of this Bird that warbleth upon all the branches, and be not of the patient ones. Say: O people of the earth! By God, the Bird of Oneness hath taken flight and hath soared in the atmosphere of holy and subtle grace   BH03984

Illumine, O Lord, the faces of Thy servants, that they may behold Thee; and cleanse their hearts that they may turn unto the court of Thy heavenly favors, and recognize Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Day-Spring of Thine Essence.   BH09401

Verily I am a servant who hath believed in God and His signs, and I say not unto you that I know the unseen, nor do I claim any sign from heaven, but rather I recite unto you these clear verses from the Book of God for a people who remember.   BB00430

The Holy Tree (Sadrat) is, in a sense, the Manifestation of the One True God, exalted be He. The intent of all exalted names and titles revealed in the Bayan and from the Pen of the Most High in this Revelation is the Manifestation of God Himself.   BH04254

I bear witness unto Muhammad, His servant, who is detached from all things and sanctified above any likeness to humankind. God hath not placed within his being aught save the sign of His unity, such that none can comprehend his knowledge save Him.   BB00226

O people! Nullify not the Cause of God through what ye possess. Set aside that which distracteth you from it and turn ye unto the station from whose horizon hath shone forth the Sun of the beauty of your Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most Great.   BH05065

He cannot be known except through Himself, nor described save by His own Self. None hath ever encompassed this hidden secret and treasured mystery, nor ever shall. Whatever hath been mentioned is but as a shadow before the lights of the Sun of Truth.  BH01352

Then in another sense it [the word "sun"] is applied to the Prophets of God and His chosen ones, for they are the suns of His names and attributes amidst His creation. Were it not for them, no one would be illumined by the lights of divine knowledge.  BH00271

O Living Temple! We have, in very truth, appointed Thee to be the sign of My majesty amidst all that hath been and all that shall be, and have ordained Thee to be the emblem of My Cause betwixt the heavens and the earth, through My word Be, and it is!  BH00007

but the Joseph of the true Beauty appeared in the divine Egypt with a luminous countenance, divine comeliness, heavenly grace, lordly beauty, glorified charm, a brilliant dawning-place, and an appearance like a rose garden in the market of manifestation  AB06890

The day of the Manifestation of God is the divine and spiritual springtime when the trees of human souls become green and flourishing, new beauty and freshness are brought to the gardens of the hearts and new inspiration and fresh bounties are bestowed.  ABU0425

This is the Day wherein mysteries have been revealed, the trees have spoken, and the Lote-Tree of the Far Boundary has given glad tidings to the denizens of the Most Exalted Paradise and the Supreme Heaven of the appearance of Him Who conversed on Sinai   BH04035

The eyes of existence have never seen the like of Him, neither aforetimes, nor hereafter. He is the Name of the Unseen Essence, and the Countenance of Lordship, Who abideth beneath the Face of Divinity and refereth unto the Sovereignty of Divine Oneness.  BB00001

Baha'u'llah is the perfection and maturity of the essence of humanity, manifesting this in Fatherhood with command and Authority, and we find in the Surat-u'l-Hykl that Baha'u'llah said: "Verily we have seized the lives and are beginning a new creation."   ABU3763

'Ali-before-Nabil is the Manifestation of His Beauty and the Manifestation of His Glory, and the Repository of His Knowledge, and the Mine of His Revelation, and the Harborer of His Command and His Grandeur, and the Source of His Might and His Sovereignty   BH10396

The Beloved bears witness: By God! This indeed is the Best-Beloved. He, verily, is the One intended in the Tablets of God, the Mighty, the Praised. The Interlocutor bears witness: The All-Bountiful has come and from Him has issued forth every wise command.   BH05081

Thou knowest that my station is but an image of Thy station, that my virtues recount Thy virtues, that within mine inmost being naught can be found except the revelations of Thy signs, and that my very essence is but a reflection of the evidences of Thy unity.  BH02871

"Outwardly the holy Manifestations of God were completely humiliated and despised. They were mocked by all. But in a short space of time the penetrative influence of their words filled the hearts and the sun of their greatness and majesty illumined the world."  ABU2133

But Prophets demonstrate the existence of this Inner Perception and Intuition in man in a practical way. They show forth this power first in themselves by inspiring men with the faculty of comprehending the realities of things and grasping things supernatural.  ABU0971


This is what hath been revealed from the heaven of eternity, and in it there is set forth the station wherein the Beauty of god hath mounted the Throne of a Great Name. He verily hath been promised in all the Scriptures under every name, if ye are those who know.  BH03560

It is not befitting for me, it is not proper for me to test the Truth. Rather, it is befitting for the Truth to test and try me. For the pan of the human scale cannot bear that heavy burden - indeed, even the indicator of the scale would scatter and disintegrate.  AB02462

Yes, in Baghdad, as you wrote, He would go to coffeehouses and partake of coffee and the water pipe, but this was to preserve the Bayan and its people. Beyond this, do not think ill of your Lord, for the Blessed Being has always been and will always be sanctified.  BH00097

O people! He is the Most Great Sign amongst you, and the Beauty of God, the Most Exalted, the Most High, in your midst, would ye but perceive it. He is God's power over them that turned away, and the breath of the All-Merciful to them that are turned unto Him.  BH00130

For the Sun of Thy Revelation is one, though it rise infinitely unto infinity - it is but one fruit, though its rising in each Manifestation be according to what Thou hast ordained for it. Thus do I testify that it is a Mirror that speaketh naught except from Thee   BB00052

The seat whereon I am established is the Throne of God. Imagine not a throne for your Lord God in heaven, for He is in heaven a God established upon His throne, and on earth a God established upon His throne, and between them a God established upon His throne.  BB00004

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath appeared is verily the Savior of all nations and the Quickener of the world. The clamor of the people doth not prevent Him from that which He desireth, nor doth the croaking of those in the lands.   BH10311

And He Who hath appeared is verily the Dayspring of the Unseen. No doubt existeth: He hath come with manifest sovereignty. Through Him My Cause was established, My path was raised up, My balance was set, and that which lay hidden in My preserved Tablet was revealed.   BH09941

How mighty is Your right, how great what befits the wondrous nature of Your station, the loftiness of Your rank, and the sublimity of Your manifestations! You have severed yourself unto God with all you possess to a summit of elevation none has preceded or shall attain  BB00322

All the philosophers of the West acknowledge this overwhelming power and stand amazed at how the Most Great Name, in prison and under affliction, manifested perfect power and overwhelming might. This is a sign among His signs, and a proof among His proofs and evidences.  AB02328

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him, and He Who hath appeared with the truth, He verily is the Most Great Ocean, the heaven of grace, the Dayspring of the lights of justice, the Source of revelation and the Dawning-Place of inspiration unto all in the world.  BH00152

Baha'u'llah is the Dawning Place of Holiness. Baha'u'llah is the Source, the One Who has illumined this dark world, made corporeal into spiritual, quickened the dormant minds, changed the earthly souls into heavenly ones and given life to the dead and sight to the blind.  ABU2746

Bear thou witness to that which the Ancient King hath testified in His Most Great Tablet: that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath appeared is verily the Dayspring of the Unseen - no doubt is there about it. He, verily, is the Most High, the Most Great.   BH09903

Among the people are those who have followed vain desire and cast behind them that which they were commanded by One All-Knowing, All-Wise. And among them are those who were attracted by the fragrance of the Garment and turned with manifest joy toward the Supreme Horizon.   BH08925

And I bear witness that Muhammad is Thy servant whom Thou didst choose from the midst of eternity above all peoples, and didst select to stand in Thy station in creation and invention, for Thou hast never been and wilt never be associated with the making of created things  BB00050

Can the crowing of the raven prevent the warbling of the dove? Nay, by my Lord, the All-Merciful! She warbleth upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree and giveth glad tidings unto them that are nigh and unto the sincere ones. The hosts of the heedless shall not prevent her   BH09463

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with clear proofs is verily the Dawning-Place of My Cause, and the Dayspring of My Revelation, and My Hidden Book, and My Preserved Tablet, and the Heaven of My wisdom, and the Ocean of My knowledge.  BH10309

By My life! The Spirit runneth through the wilderness of the love of God, and proclaimeth that which It hath been commanded by the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. This is that same station wherein the Voice of the Spirit was raised up, and likewise the Prophets and Messengers.   BH06338

Verily the grace, knowledge and wisdom have all appeared in the temple of a concealed Name, Whose manifestation was veiled by His beauty in such wise that none among creation recognized Him, could ye but know it, though He moved among them all the days as one of them   BH01867

Glory and praise, blessings and splendor be upon His Prophets and His chosen ones, whom He has made the Dawning-Places of His names and the Daysprings of His attributes and the Manifestations of His Self and the Recipients of His knowledge and the Treasuries of His verses   BH01537

They say the purpose of the Prophets in making their claims was to gain leadership and governance, even though the foundation of God's Cause and the claims of the sacred Manifestations were entirely contrary to comfort, ease and pleasure, let alone thoughts of leadership.   ABU0707

O Ancient Beauty! Turn Thy face towards another city, then make mention of him who was named Ja'far-Quli from this Most Exalted Horizon that the rapture of the Call may seize him and draw him nigh unto God, the Lord of mankind. Thy name was present in the Most Great Prison.  BH00150

I bear witness that Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, was Thy servant whom Thou didst choose through Thy knowledge, approve for Thy mystery, select for Thy revelation, elect for Thy message, and establish as the station of Thy authority in fulfillment and decree.   BB00159

The Point of the Bayan, Who heralded to the world My appearance, hath said: "Should He come with a verse, reject Him not." Yet the people of the Bayan rejected Me after I came unto them from the Orient of divine knowledge with verses that all the books of the world cannot match  BH09451

However, when the Tree of the Bayan attaineth its highest development, We shall bend it low as a token of adoration towards its Lord Who will appear in the person of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Perchance ye may be privileged to glorify God as it befitteth His august Self.  BB00525

Yes, a planet can lose the bounty of God and be destroyed. As man depends on his elements and the brain in particular, so the "Sent Prophets or Manifestations" are like the brain of a planet, they cannot live without the help from this highest source or element of their beings.  ABU3233

Verily, He Who hath appeared with His Most Great Name from the Supreme Horizon - He is the Glory of God unto all who are in the kingdom of names, and His sovereignty unto all who are in the realm of creation, and His proof unto all who are in the dominion of command and creation  BH02071

He is the Beauty of the Cause in the Most Exalted Concourse, and the Mystery of the Manifestation in the unseen cloud, and the Hidden Book within the pavilion of grandeur, and the Temple of Eternity amidst the world, and the Most Great Name unto him who is powerful in the Cause.   BH01810

Though the manifestation of Thine own Self is too exalted to be compared with the manifestations of Thy Prophets, for he whose meeting Thou hast made identical with meeting Thee - how could he be content to have his meeting equated with meeting the manifestations of Thy Prophets?  BB00043

And if beauty were as ye behold it, then ye would find this upon the earth - and how do ye not see it as animal? Nay, your souls desire not to be cut off unto it, for within it exists not the form of the One in Whom is the Beauty of God through which God hath manifested His Self.  BB00003

He Who speaketh is the Dayspring of Revelation, the inscribed Book, the frequented Fane, the outstretched Parchment, the hidden Treasure, and the concealed Mystery. Through Him hath the world been adorned and every nation been moved to proclaim that there is none other God but Him   BH09889

We have manifested the Countenance from the Most Exalted Horizon and called all unto it, yet the people turn aside from it. The sun of certitude has shone upon them from the horizon of the loving-kindness of their Lord, the Most Merciful, yet they wallow in their own idle fancies.   BH05041

And peace and blessings be upon Him Whom God hath made the Dawning-Place of His Cause and the Source of His wisdom, and established Him in His own stead in all things that pertain unto Him. He is indeed the Manifestation of His most beautiful names and His most exalted attributes.   BH01274

'Ali-before-Muhammad is His Manifestation and His Concealment, His Name and His Beauty, His Mystery and His Light, His Cause and His Utterance, His Speech and His Word, His Wisdom and His Proof, His Evidence and His Revelation, His Word and His Sovereignty, His Grace and His Bounty   BH10835

Through Thee hath God opened what He hath opened, through Thee hath God originated what He hath originated, through Thee hath God sent down what He hath sent down, through Thee hath God brought forth what He hath brought forth, and through Thee hath God created what He hath created.   BB00179

The Manifestations of God at times express power, wealth and independence, and at times they express weakness, poverty and evanescence. The purpose of these two stations, two mentions and two utterances hath been and is to demonstrate the power and might of God, exalted be His glory.   BH00436

That which was brought before Us beareth witness to thy turning unto God, the Most High, the Most Great, and thy recognition of the Manifestation of His Self, by Whom the faces of the idolators were darkened, while the countenances of the denizens of the highest Paradise were illumined  BH00246

And in this station His Holiness is the First Mention and the Wondrous Adam, which is the station of the determination of the First Point. And in this station he is mentioned by his self, essence, hand, face, eye, hearing, sight and all active names in their state of attribution to God.  BB00017

I do not mean by this that Jesus Christ was not great - for He was a Manifestation of God: I only mean that He had only a few followers during his lifetime, and that though He lived in Nazareth, He was not even heard of in Acca. While now the face of Beha'ullah has spread far and wide.   ABU1055

He Who has come with the truth is verily the Hidden Secret, the Treasured Mystery, the Most Exalted Word, the Sovereign of Names, and the Light shining from the Supreme Horizon. He cannot be indicated by any indication of the Bayan nor by what was revealed therein from the All-Merciful.   BH02618

During the years that Baha'u'llah lived in Bagdad and Adrianople whosoever stood in His Presence and listened to His Wisdom he was impressed with His marvelous Power and Knowledge. The Jews, the Christians, the Zoroastrians and the Mohamadans found their highest aspirations embodied in Him.   ABU0996

He is the Mystery through Whose manifestation the earth was adorned and through Whose ascension and rising the celestial spheres were honored. Through Him the rivers of inner meanings and utterance flowed in the contingent world and the mysteries of the All-Merciful appeared among religions.   BH04945

Lastly the perfect man, the Prophet, is one who is transfigured, one who has the purity and clearness of a perfect mirror -- one who reflects the Sun of Truth. Of such a one -- of such a Prophet and Messenger -- we can say that the Light of Divinity with the heavenly Perfections dwells in him.  ABU0445

Observe how veiled the people are, that they accept the manifestation of Truth in the mount of Sinai and in rock and clay and tree, yet they deny and turn away from and show pride before the Blessed Beauty, in Whom all signs and power and might and greatness and divine attributes were manifest.   AB12097

By God! His station is one which the birds of the hearts of the doubters can never attain, nor the fragrances of the hearts of the mystics. Were We to manifest this station, thou wouldst be bewildered within thyself and wouldst say: "Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent over whatsoever Thou willest."   BH01641

The Point of the Bayan hath said that a one-year old seed of the Day of His Revelation is mightier than all who are in the Bayan. And likewise He hath said: "I have written a gem concerning His remembrance: He shall not be indicated by My indication, nor by what hath been revealed in the Bayan."   BH01371

God hath sent no Prophet but Him, and hath revealed no Book but unto Him. This is the essence of the Cause, both before and after, if ye would but look to the Source of the Cause. Yet now He saith that God sent not the Messengers aforetime, nor revealed the Books, save for the Day of Resurrection.  BB00087

And among the meanings of the mystery of sacrifice is that the Point of Truth becomes manifest and evident in all aspects, effects, ordinances and deeds in universal and particular manifestations - meaning that souls become illumined by Its effulgences and hearts become enlightened by Its lights.   AB01264

For since all that is in the world existeth in a single soul, He therefore saith that if someone giveth life to a soul it is as though he had given life to all mankind, and if someone killeth a soul it is as though he had killed all the world. Ponder then on this, O ye who are endowed with insight!  BH00049

Denial of the Covenant annuls the station of every soul and all promises of prophets of past and present ages. So how can now a denyer hope to retain that which is a title in this world, and that dependent upon true service and obedience. And having disobeyed, fell like Lucifer never to rise again.   ABU0340

By God! When thy brother learned that thou hadst risen against him and that the fire of jealousy would not be quenched in thy breast, he departed with his family alone and entered another house, closing upon his face the door of coming and going, and there did he remain among those who dwell therein.  BH00006

The Manifestation possesses essential infallibility as an inseparable aspect of their reality and station. They are the embodiment of "He doeth whatsoever He willeth" and their words and actions are identical with truth and conformable to reality. No believer has the right to object to their commands.  AB00227

They have asked if it is possible for a person to reach the station of Christ, - whoever suffers of prays, can he reach this station? No! It cannot be, because Christ was the Word of God, the Holy Spirit. This is ancient, but these people are accidental, and the accidental is not ancient. It cannot be.  ABU1516

He Who hath come with the truth is indeed the Hidden Treasure and the Concealed Mystery through Whom the ocean of life surged in creation and the horizon of proof was illumined by the Sun of certitude. He is the One in Whose praise the Books of God, the All-Possessing, the Self-Subsisting, have spoken.   BH05084

By God, this is the path of God between the heavens and earth, His Most Great Throne among the servants, His Manifestation to all in the lands, the Expression of His Essence to those in the kingdoms of Command and Creation, and the Dawning-Place of His Being to those in the realm of might and truth.   BH00742

I know not, O my God, whether I am beguiled by Thy proof or whether all men are as dead ones who perceive not that one among the Jews believed in Musa ibn Ja'far, Thy proof, when he witnessed his patience. All people know my station and observe my patience, yet they perceive not and find no way unto Thee.  BB00059

That first station is where the Tongue of Eternity spoke saying I am the Beloved of the worlds. That Most Great, Most Exalted station possesses ranks and stations that none except the Self of Truth - glorious is His majesty and universal His bounty - has known or will know, has enumerated or will enumerate.  BH00164

He hath chosen from among His creation a single Temple and made it the Sun of His Will, the Mystery of His eternity, the Inaccessibility of His grandeur, the Exaltation of His self-subsistence, the Joy of His oneness, the Content of His sovereign individuality, and the Splendor of His glory of independence.  BB00003

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth verily standeth in His place in every world of His worlds. Whoso acknowledgeth Him hath acknowledged God and His signs, and whoso turneth away is accounted among the idolaters in God's Book, the Lord of all worlds.   BH03237

Bear witness within thyself that there is none other God but Him, and that 'Ali-before-Nabil is the Manifestation of His Essence and the Manifestation of His Cause unto all the worlds. Through Him His proof hath appeared, His testimony been perfected, His Word been fulfilled, His countenance hath shone forth   BH03456

Know thou, moreover, that the Truth and whatsoever proceedeth from Him must needs be distinguished from creation and whatsoever emanateth therefrom. This verily is a certain truth. He can never be confused with aught else, and shineth forth from the horizon of the heaven of holiness with manifest sovereignty.   BH05665

By God, none like unto Me hath appeared in creation, and I am He Whose like no eye hath beheld, and I am the Omnipotent over what I wish, and I am the Forgiving, the Merciful. Whoso denieth My Cause hath denied all the Messengers, and whoso turneth away from My face hath turned away from the face of God.   BH00845

Know that, while the Manifestations of God possess infinite virtues and perfections, They occupy but three stations: the first is the station of the physical realm, the second is the station of the human soul, which is the intermediate realm, and the third is that of Divine appearance and celestial splendour.   AB00345

These Souls are the universal Manifestations of God and have been sent forth to the entire world and the generality of mankind. But the universal Manifestations are all-encompassing: They are like the root, and all others are as the branches; they are like the sun, and all others are as the moon and the stars.  AB06566

And may prayers and peace be upon the Point of Existence and the Lord of the kingdom of earth and heaven, Whom God hath made the Manifestation of His names and the Dawning-Place of His attributes and the Repository of His knowledge and the Source of His Command - He but for Whom nothing would have been created   BH02128

He Who hath appeared is indeed the Hidden Treasure and the Concealed Mystery, and that He is the One through Whom the hearts and minds were set ablaze, through Whom the Divine Lote-Tree spoke forth, through Whom the Rock cried out, through Whom the Dove sang, and through Whom the Nightingale of Heaven proclaimed   BH10428

He whom He hath manifested is, in truth, His Manifestation amongst His servants and the One Who standeth in His stead. Through Him His sovereignty, then His command, became manifest, and through Him the sun of His Will hath shone forth from the horizon of His purpose upon all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH02538

He is indeed the Most Great Book, the Most Exalted Word, and the Greatest Sign. Through Him appeared God's pervading Will, His all-encompassing Power, His enduring Sovereignty and His all-prevailing Might. He is indeed the Countenance that shone forth from the horizon of eternity after the passing of all things.   BH01994

In truth, the mention of the Sun and its like refers to His exalted and sublime station among the servants, otherwise every person of insight beareth witness to the sanctification of His Essence from whatsoever hath been mentioned and the detachment of His Self from whatsoever hath been or shall be comprehended.   BH00372

From the beginning that hath no beginning until now, all that God hath manifested through Me hath been to summon every soul unto God, my Lord, the Lord of all the worlds. I have revealed the Books from God as He hath permitted Me, and have ordained ways as He hath willed. He, verily, is the Most Wise of the wise.  BB00063

Know thou, He was perfect in respect to spirit as well as body. His material (body) was a perfect body in every respect; none of His material conditions were imperfect at all, inasmuch as imperfection is contrary to perfection. His heavenly condition was also a perfect one, comprising all the divine perfections.   AB03578

I give praise to Thee, O my God, that Thou hast chosen me out of all Thy creatures, and made me to be the Day-Spring of Thy strength and the Manifestation of Thy might, and empowered me to reveal such of Thy signs and such tokens of Thy majesty and power as none, whether in Thy heaven or on Thy earth, can produce.  BH05408

And since the door of knowledge of the Hidden Essence, the Concealed Mystery, is closed, He hath sent forth from the realm of the unseen to the plane of existence holy souls who are the Manifestations of His Cause, the Daysprings of His decree, the Rising-places of His revelation and the Recipients of His knowledge.  BH03544

Do ye dispute with the Ancient Beauty concerning that which He witnessed in the most remote dwelling places near the Divine Lote-Tree, when He beheld of the greatest signs of His own Self? By God! The Mighty Spirit inspired Him in the Most Glorious Pavilion with mysteries that can neither be witnessed nor seen.   BH04292

The essence of blessing and peace be upon the Point of existence and the Mirror of the unseen and the visible, namely the Beloved of the Prophets and the King of the chosen ones, through Whom the fragrances of revelation were diffused throughout the world and the luminary of divine unity shone forth amidst all peoples  BH01433

In the human world, there have appeared souls who became educators of humanity, who shone like the sun and were worshipped throughout all regions - they were the dawning-places of revelation and the daysprings of the light of truth. Therefore, consider in the human temple what loftiness and exaltation this represents.  AB01205

However, in the station of distinction, God hath preferred some above others, as the master is preferred above the servants. In this station, behold the station of some as the Point above the letters, and just as the letters are derived from the Point and revolve around it, likewise know thou the ranks of the Prophets.  BH00134

Verily He is the Point of piety, from which have been expounded sciences which none knoweth save God, the Lord of the visible and the invisible. Verily He is the Tree of guidance - blessed is he who hath turned unto it, for he is of them that have turned unto God, the Lord of the Throne on high and of the dust beneath.   BH02901

Verily this is how it is, for through the mere flowing of the water of that river, none hath entered God's religion save those rarer in existence than red sulfur. They are the chosen ones who have reached the summit of detachment. May God grant me to meet them in the holy land without mention of separation or prevention.  BB00007

And blessings and peace be upon His Beloved, whom He made a Book wherein was inscribed that which none knoweth save His own Self, and established him in His station in the realm of creation, and made him the Dawning-Place of His names and the Rising-Point of His attributes and the Manifestation of His signs and evidences   BH01660

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him and that He Who hath appeared is the Hidden Mystery, the Treasured Symbol, the Most Great Book for all peoples, and the Heaven of bounty for the whole world. He is the Most Mighty Sign amongst men and the Dayspring of the most august attributes in the realm of creation.   BH00668

Immeasurably high are the Prophets of God exalted above the comprehension of men, who can never know them except by their own Selves. Far be it from His glory that His chosen Ones should be magnified by any other than their own persons. Glorified are they above the praise of men; exalted are they above human understanding!  BH00002

But when the Manifestation of God Himself came, He was like a magnifying glass. The Manifestation was like a fine glass filled with wine; it was so perfect that no glass could be seen; the wine only shone forth. So the Manifestation was such a fine and perfect vehicle for the light, that the Spirit of God only was noticed.   ABU1184

By God! He is this One, and this is the treasured Mystery. Say: If ye desire the outward, verily He is this Speaker Who proclaimeth that there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Loving. And if ye desire the inward, verily He hath appeared but through this Name and speaketh but through this tongue, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH04519

His own self cannot be counted among others, rather all else was created for Him, for He is the mirror of Thy Self alone, with no partner. Were that mirror two, the heavens and earth and all between them would have been corrupted, for Thou hast distinguished Him with verses that have rendered the Letters of the Living powerless  BB00082

I am the Primal Point from which have been generated all created things. I am the Countenance of God Whose splendour can never be obscured, the Light of God Whose radiance can never fade. Whoso recognizeth Me, assurance and all good are in store for him, and whoso faileth to recognize Me, infernal fire and all evil await him...   BB00262

Although the Revelation of the Point of the Bayan is exactly the very Revelation of Muhammad in His Return, yet, inasmuch as He hath been manifested as the Revelation of God Himself, therefore, it is only beneath His glorious shadow that all Names can refer unto God. For He is the First and the Last, and the Seen and the Hidden.  BB00001

The sun is always the sun; if at a certain period it gave no light it would not at that period be called the sun, for the characteristics of the sun are light and heat. The great ones are from all time in their glorious station, their reality is luminous from the beginning, the reality that causes the qualities of God to appear   ABU0127

The ultimate truth is that these holy Manifestations are like mirrors and the rays of the Sun of Reality are reflected in these mirrors. Thus if that Sun which is reflected in the mirrors says "I am the Sun," it is absolute truth. Despite this, it does not say it has incarnated, for that Sun is eternally in its exalted sanctity.   ABU0798

The Tongue of Grandeur hath testified to His manifestation and His establishment upon the throne, and His dawning from the horizon of the world, yet the peoples remain veiled. The eye of creation hath never witnessed His like - to this testifieth He Who walketh and speaketh that there is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the Bestower.  BH01923

Verily, when God made Me the Manifestation of His Cause, from before and hereafter, I shall thank Him and praise Him. There is no God but He, the All-Praised, the All-Thankful, the Eternal. Unto Him belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth, and verily we are all guided by Him. And His guidance returneth unto Me in the Book.   BB00447

Thou choosest from Thy creation whom Thou pleasest, for in every Revelation there hath been none chosen in Thy knowledge nor approved in Thy Book save whom Thou hadst chosen before and approved before, through the name of Thy loved one and Thy friend, the manifestations of Thy countenance and the dawning-places of the sun of Thy essence   BB00391

Were it not for you, nothing would know God; were it not for you, nothing would worship God; were it not for you, nothing would sanctify God; were it not for you, nothing would remember God; were it not for you, nothing would describe God; were it not for you, nothing would praise God; were it not for you, nothing would characterize God.  BB00049

O Beauty of the Essence of Oneness, Who is sanctified above all limitations and purified from words, allusions, names, attributes, manifestations and revelations, hath appeared in human temple. Therefore most people, looking upon human habits manifested from the Divine Temple, remain veiled, heedless that herein lies the essence of power.   BH00965

For He standeth in the place of God and is the Manifestation of the Absolute Light, through Whom were revealed from the dust the mysteries of origin and return, and through Whom the Dove of Utterance warbled upon the branch of knowledge. Through Him the world was illumined with the light of unity and nations with the mention of detachment.  BH00277

The Promised One hath come with the signs of signs from the dawning place of thy Lord's loving-kindness, the Mighty, the Powerful. Verily He attracts thee to the Most Exalted Horizon, the station wherein was raised the rustling of the Divine Lote-Tree and wherein the Tongue of Grandeur spoke while seated upon the Throne of Divine Evidence.  BH00030

God hath raised Me by His sovereignty and made Me the standard of guidance among His servants. Hasten unto Me and be not of those who tarry. Say: Through My rising the Cause of God hath risen in all things, and through My manifestation hath been perfected what was sent down in the Tablets and what was mentioned in the Torah and the Gospel.   BH01508

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath manifested the Cause amidst all peoples is verily our Lord and the Lord of all worlds, the Ancient Lord Who hath appeared with the Most Great Name - He at Whose appearance every edifice hath been shaken and every person thrown into confusion, save whom God hath willed.  BH00086

This is the Manifestation which none hath known save he who hath cast away what the people possess and turned wholly unto the Countenance of God, the Radiant, the Luminous. God hath made His Day transcend understanding, even as His own Self transcendeth comprehension. Thus hath the decree been sent down from One Who is All-Knowing, All-Wise.   BH00950

God has created them in a station which none can attain, and perhaps in certain instances they deny knowledge in order to show their grace to the usurpers, so that the latter might not feel ashamed when in their presence. The one who knows their true station understands the melody of their words and the significance of their signs in all things.  BB00114

The difference between Christ as a divine Manifestation and the Pope as a religious leader is shown through their respective stations: Christ's election was from God while the Pope's was from men. Though Christ was persecuted and crucified, His divine station and glory endures eternally, while the Pope's earthly authority and fame quickly fades.   ABU0931

The divine Holy Prophets have two stations. The first is the station of "Abstraction." This is the station wherein they commune with God, receive the Graces of the Holy Spirit and become intimate with the Fragrances of Holiness. The second station is the station of "Plurality." In this station they occupy themselves with the education of mankind.   ABU1430

Do ye find any other than Me in the Bayan? Nay, by Him Who caused Me to speak His praise amongst the worlds! Hath there flowed from the Most Exalted Pen any mention save My mention? Nay, by My true Self, were ye of them that know! Were it not for My mention, the Bayan would not have been revealed, and by My Name was adorned the heaven of the Cause.  BH01530

The bearer of that Most Great Standard was the Primal Mirror, the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake. Through Him He made manifest the pearls of the ocean of knowledge and displayed them before the eyes of true money-changers. Exalted, exalted be His station, and exalted, exalted be His power and sovereignty!   BH00825

Thou didst raise up one of Thy servants, and didst choose Him above all Thy creatures, and didst single Him out for Thy purpose, and didst clothe Him with the robe of Thy guidance, and didst immerse Him beneath the seas of Thy majesty and grandeur, and didst sanctify Him from all that beseemeth not the greatness of Thy glory and the power of Thy might.  BH03361

Every remembrance from the light of thy remembrance originates in existence and every light from the lights of the garments of thy countenance rises from the treasury of the unseen to the horizon of limitations...glory be unto God - greatness hath submitted to the majesty of thy greatness and power hath humbled itself before the sovereignty of thy might  BB00349

All Divine Manifestations give up all personal condition, considerations and graces in the Cause of God to such an extent that there is nothing judged of their personality; that is, they sacrifice their personality entirely in the world. Their life is only the life of God; their thought is what is thought of God; and their grades are those chosen by God.  ABU0313

I testify on that Day, the Day of Independence, that He, glorified be He, since the meeting with His Essence was impossible for His creation, hath chosen His resplendent Essence, His abstract Being, His crystalline Manifestation, His sublime Reality, His exalted Entity, and hath made the meeting with It to be the meeting with Himself for all His creation.  BB00003

Now judge with fairness: what is the primal reality of that verse? It is evident to every person of insight that the Most Great Verse, which needs nothing else to prove itself and never will, is in its primal reality the Manifestation Himself, for whatever and whoever is below Him is in need of His command. None denies this save every rejected ignorant one.  BH00004

Even the holy, divine Manifestations have had a nature in the utmost equilibrium, the health and wholesomeness of their bodies most perfect, their constitutions endowed with physical vigor, their powers functioning in perfect order, and the outward sensations linked with the inward perceptions, working together with extraordinary momentum and coordination.   AB00209

Yet doth every thing bear witness to the sanctification of His Essence from names and their kingdom, and the glorification of His Self from attributes and their dominion. Thereupon doth the Tongue of Grandeur speak above His head, saying: "By God! This is My Beloved - I love not that any should know Him save Me or that any eye should behold Him save Mine own."   BH02488

I testify, and all things testify, that the Manifestation of Thy Beauty, from the beginning when Thou didst make Thyself known to all created things, hath known Thee through Thy causing him to know Thee, and hath shown patience in Thy path upon the summits of mountains, and hath wearied himself in seeking Thy good-pleasure upon the paths of love and acceptance.  BB00294

Since those sanctified realities, the universal Manifestations of God, encompass all created things both in their essence and in their attributes, since they transcend and discover all existing realities, and since they are cognizant of all things, it follows that their knowledge is divine and not acquired--that is, it is a heavenly grace and a divine discovery.  AB00780

This is He the like of Whom the pole of heaven hath never seen, nor the face of earth His similitude, nor what lieth between them His equal. This is He Whom God shall manifest until the End that hath no end, even as He hath manifested Him from the Beginning that hath no beginning. This is He Who is manifest in the Thrones, this is He Who is hidden in the Scrolls.  BB00005

A great Master will be the Educator of the world of humanity... His Knowledge must be innate and spontaneous and not acquired... He must answer the questions of all the sages, solve all the difficult problems of humanity and be able to withstand all the persecutions and sufferings heaped upon him... His Knowledge must be infinite and his wisdom all-comprehensive.  ABU1402

"The word 'prophetes' is from the Greek and means literally the 'predictor'. Many people therefore think that a Prophet is a Seer Who prophesies the future, because He foresees the future. The Prophet, however, is more than a Seer, it is true that each Prophet has visions far into the future, but beyond this He is the Announcer and Expounder of the Word of God."   ABU0374

God bears witness that there is none other God but Him, and He Who has come with the truth is verily the Sovereign of verses and the Dawning-Place of revelation unto all who are in earth and heaven. He is indeed the Manifest Book and the Impregnable Fortress - whoso turns unto Him has turned unto the Most Great Ocean and attained the lights of the Ancient of Days.   BH02778

I bear witness, moreover, that through Thy beauty the beauty of the Adored One hath been unveiled, and through Thy face the face of the Desired One hath shone forth, and that through a word from Thee Thou hast decided between all created things, causing them who are devoted to Thee to ascend unto the summit of glory, and the infidels to fall into the lowest abyss.   BH02307

Though all the Manifestations of the Cause were indeed related unto God and their days are in one sense mentioned as the Days of God, yet the seeing eye perceiveth that this wondrous Day is specially reserved for the appearance of the Hidden Mystery and the Treasured Secret. All books bear witness to this most glorious, most mighty, most holy, most exalted station.  BH00123

Who is He by Whose name was raised the banner of "There is none other God but Him"? And Who is He at Whose appearance the Cry was raised, and the Trumpet was sounded, and all that are on earth were thunderstruck, save those whom God pleased? And Who is He Who arose with the Cause and manifested through His sovereignty whatsoever He desired in the kingdom of creation?   BH04506

And I bear witness unto Muhammad, peace be upon Him, even as God hath borne witness unto Him in the knowledge of the unseen, wherein He made Him unique among the children of mankind in the worlds of His command and creation, for verily He cannot be compared to what His servants have devised, nor can the highest essences of the hearts of His loved ones comprehend Him.   BB00342

Do you know the rank of the Imamate and its position in the community, that you would allow their choice in it? The Imamate is more majestic in rank, greater in importance, higher in position, more impenetrable in aspect, and deeper in significance than that people could reach it with their intellects, attain it with their opinions, or establish an Imam by their choice.  BB00010

Know thou that I am but the servant of God among you, moved by the winds of the will of your Lord, the All-Merciful, as He pleaseth and willeth. I possess for myself neither life, nor death, nor stillness, nor motion. I speak not except by His leave, as evidenced by that which hath appeared from Me by His command, which none can perceive save those endowed with insight.   BH01588

Then He chose from among His creation a Hidden Essence, a Treasured Purity, a Camphorated Glory, and made it the Sun of His Countenance, the Garment of His Face, the Reality of His Oneness, and the Object of His Eternal Self-Subsistence...He made it the Primal Point, the Most Exalted Paradise, the Most Glorious Summit, the Greatest Sign, and the Most Evident Countenance.  BB00003

All that hath been revealed in the Bayan is My remembrance, and all that hath been revealed in this Manifestation is the embellishment of Mine Own Self, which We have created for My Temple, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. My outward calleth unto My inward, and My inward unto My outward. There is none other in the kingdom save Me, yet the people are in manifest heedlessness.   BH05545

He is the Manifestation of God amidst creation, for His commandments are the commandments of God and His word is the Word of God. He is the Dawning Place of all the most beautiful names and the Manifestation of the most exalted attributes. Whosoever attains unto Him attains unto all good, and whosoever turns away from Him is counted among those who have turned away from God.  BH01735

As for the heavenly spirit, it is a holy essence, a perfect word, a complete sign, the mystery of existence, and the reality hidden from the eyes of all beings. It is the Supreme Pen, the Most Merciful Soul, and the manifestation of Truth from the dawning-place of creation and its sun at the point of invention. This is specifically for the Prophets in the worlds of creation.  BH01497

The likeness of the Point of the Bayan is as the likeness of this sun - when it riseth ye see nothing in the sky save it. Even so, on that Day ye shall see no truth except before Me, and likewise on the Day when God shall make Me manifest - on that Day there shall be no truth except with Me, and all shadows prostrate themselves before God, and all are worshippers of Him.  BB00004

As for the Manifestation of the Blessed Beauty and the Manifestation of Christ, the intention is not physical unity or personal unity. The intention is that the supernatural power and divine light was manifest, evident and radiant in both, like the sun which shines from multiple zodiacal houses but the sun is one, though the personality and physicality are like multiple houses   AB01118

It hath two movements in the world of relation: an essential, intrinsic movement around itself, telling of its Source and indicating His unity and simplicity - its outer being identical with its inner, and its inner identical with its outer; the first without expression and the last without definition; its beginning identical with its end and its end identical with its beginning.  BB00022

But the Prophets of God are specially distinguished souls. God hath chosen them from among His servants and made them the sources of His inspiration and revelation: "He singles out for His mercy whomsoever He willeth. That is of God's bounty; He bestoweth it upon whomsoever He willeth." This station is not acquired; rather, it is a gift of divine bestowal and heavenly revelation.   ABU0830

Therefore, when thou desirest to know Him, know the Manifestation of His Self in every Revelation, for this is the most glorious veil of God, the most exalted pavilion of God, the most excellent embroidery of God, and the most enduring light of God. Thou hast no way to know Him or to attain His good-pleasure except through the Manifestations of His Revelation in every Dispensation.  BB00005

After establishing this lofty station and this glorious seat, true oneness refers to His Vicegerent amongst His servants. He is the Dawning-Place of revelation, the Dayspring of inspiration, the Manifestation of His Self and the Repository of knowledge. He is the Treasury of names and attributes. Whoso hath known Him hath known God, and whoso hath clung unto Him hath clung unto God.  BH01664

Therefore the purpose of creation is the manifestation of Him Whom God shall make manifest - exalted and glorified be His mention, and elevated and sublime be His station! This is a favor beyond which there is no favor, nor can any favor be associated with it, nor equal it, nor resemble it, nor suffice in place of it, for all favors have been created for the manifestation of this favor.  BB00003

Therefore, O my God, shower upon it all Thy blessings, and send down upon it Thy manifestations, and ordain for it in the Kingdom of the hereafter and the present all Thy attributes, for this is an Essential Reality, a Pure Essence, an Abstract Spirit, and a Camphorated Soul, a pristine Being, which hath no will save the essence of Thy Will, and no desire save the essence of Thy Desire.  BB00086

God hath testified in His Books and Scriptures unto Him Who hath come with the Truth, with a Name through which the world was illumined and the faces of the nations were darkened, save those who held fast to the Sure Handle and turned toward the All-Highest Horizon - the Station wherein the Divine Lote-Tree doth speak: "There is none other God but Him, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting."   BH05423

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and He Who hath come with the truth is the Dawning-Place of His glory, the Dayspring of His beauty, the Manifestation of His mysteries, the Revealer of His verses, and the Proclaimer of His evidences. He it is at Whose appearance before the faces of the world the limbs of the nations trembled and the ocean of His Most Great Name surged.   BH00976

I bear witness that the most noble of them in Thy knowledge and the first of them in Thy Book is Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon him and his family - whom Thou didst create unique among his kind, free from likeness, and didst make him the station of Thy Self in every respect, purified from similarity and comparison. I bear witness that he fulfilled what Thou didst desire in Thy creation.   BB00157

And I bear witness that Muhammad, peace be upon Him, was His servant whom He chose for Himself before all contingent things, and selected for His love before all created things, and established in the station of the sovereign authority of His everlasting dominion throughout all manifestations, for no essential vision can grasp Him while He graspeth all atoms, and He is the Mighty, the Ancient.  BB00134


The Ancient Beauty hath ascended the throne of His Most Great Name, and the bird of the throne is warbling in His presence, proclaiming... He, verily, is the One Whose mention hath enraptured the inmates of heaven and the Concourse on High, and Whose remembrance hath been extolled by all created things and hath prompted them to proclaim: "No God is there but Him, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise!"   BH06638

Praise be to God Who hath made known to creation the station of His manifestation through His own Self, and hath decreed the signs of knowledge without likeness through His wisdom, and hath deposited the example of separation in the realities of hearts without similitude from His own Self, and hath sent down the signs of Sinai upon the forms of all created things without definition from aught else.  BB00279

None can transcend or rise beyond this exalted station - the station of recognition and attainment unto that Sun of Oneness and Daystar of Truth - for it is clearly impossible to reach the Unknowable Essence. Thus do the waves of that hidden Ocean surge in this divine Manifestation, and the rays of that invisible Sun shine forth from the horizon of this holy and eternal Dawn without any intimation.   BH00512

From the horizon of each of His words shineth forth the light of certitude and blazeth the fire of true knowledge. These light and fire outwardly differ yet inwardly are united. Blessed is he who hath attained unto them both. Today, attentive ears hear from the Blessed Tree that which Moses heard on the Mount of Certitude, and perceiving eyes behold that which the Prophets and Messengers sought after.  BH00101

Be fair, ye peoples of the world; is it meet and seemly for you to question the authority of one Whose presence 'He Who conversed with God' (Moses) hath longed to attain, the beauty of Whose countenance 'God's Well-beloved' (Muhammad) had yearned to behold, through the potency of Whose love the 'Spirit of God' (Jesus) ascended to heaven, for Whose sake the 'Primal Point' (the Bab) offered up His life?  BH10746

The first in the world is first, and among its realms is the world of man, and among them the world of jinn, and among them the world of dominion, and among them the station of minerals, and among them the station of plants, and among them the station of inanimate objects. Indeed, all the ranks of all atoms speak of naught but the manifestation of His prophethood in the kingdom of names and attributes.  BB00014

Such hath ever been Thy way with Thy creation, and such will ever be Thy path among Thy servants, whereby in every Revelation Thou dost choose a pure mirror and reveal Thyself to it through itself, making it the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Dawning-Place of Thy mystery, the Evidence of Thy Revelation, and the One supported by Thy hiddenness over all in the kingdom of Thy concealment and manifestation.  BB00005

With such a decisive text, how can testing come into play? His Holiness the Prince [Ali], peace be upon him, was standing in an elevated place when a denier said, "O Ali, are you confident in God's protection?" He replied "Yes." Then he said "Throw yourself down from this high place and trust in God's protection." In reply he said "It is not for me to test God, rather it befits God to test His servant."  AB04272

The Manifestations of Revelation, the Daysprings of inspiration, the orbits of the stars, and the fountainheads of the grace of the Lord of creation cannot be compared or measured with the finest of thoroughbred steeds or rocks and sands from distant regions. And since the common people, like insects, are heedless of the essence of proof, they object to matters for which God has sent down no authority.   AB00039

Having barred the way that leadeth unto Thee, thou hast, by virtue of Thine authority and through the potency of Thy will, called into being Them Who are the Manifestations of Thy Self, and hast entrusted Them with Thy message unto Thy people, and caused Them to become the Day-Springs of Thine inspiration, the Exponents of Thy Revelation, the Treasuries of Thy Knowledge and the Repositories of Thy Faith   BH02006

The Prophet, by reason of the personal attributes implanted in Him by the Lord God, is Leader as well as Teacher of His religion (creed). He, the Prophet, reigns and teaches in the name of God. The nature of the Prophet has superhuman traits which prove that He towers above ordinary human nature. The dignity and burden of prophethood is not conferred on the true Prophet, but it is inborn, created in Him.  ABU0218

Today we believe Baha'o'llah to be an educator of humanity, as Abraham, Moses and Jesus were educators. Are His teachings worthy of serious attention? He originated and proclaimed them. He caused others to believe and follow them. What is the function of a teacher and educator of humanity? By what evidence shall we recognize him? Is it not his power to train and develop, as children are trained at school?  ABU0026

He cannot be indicated by My indication nor by what was mentioned in the Bayan. Yea, by His glory, that Word with God is greater than the worship of all on earth, for the essence of all worship leadeth unto that. Therefore, as thou hast known God, know Him Whom God shall make manifest, for He is more glorious and more exalted than to be known without Him or to be indicated by the indication of His creation.  BB00078

Through Him the light of unity hath shone forth above the horizon of the world, and the law of oneness hath been revealed amidst the nations, who, with radiant faces, have turned towards the Supreme Horizon, and acknowledged that which the Tongue of Utterance hath spoken in the kingdom of His knowledge: Earth and heaven, glory and dominion, are God's, the Omnipotent, the Almighty, the Lord of grace abounding!  BH00005

The Holy Manifestations have two stations: one station specific to them which none other may follow, and a station which all must follow. The second station comprises God's law and teachings. They are like a physician - for a physician in perfect health may do things that patients must not follow. Likewise, whatever the Holy Manifestations choose, whatever they do, whatever they enact contains perfect wisdom.  AB00710

Thou worshippest none but God, my Lord and Thy Lord; Thou unitest with none save Him, my Creator and Thy Creator; Thou sanctifiest none except Him, my Fashioner and Thy Fashioner; and Thou glorifiest none but Him, my Maker and Thy Maker. How exalted is Thy station with God, whereby all created things are severed from Him, and how glorious is Thy elevation in the Book, whereby all existence turneth toward God!   BB00248

Thus it is established that human reality is distinguished above all other beings and is the discoverer of the realities of things, especially the perfect individual, the universal outpouring, and the resplendent light - every noble Prophet and mighty Messenger. For He is like a pure and delicate mirror wherein are reflected sublime images that tell of the Sun of Reality which shines upon it with eternal grace.  ABU0222

O people! If ye believed in Ali aforetime, by God, this is his very Self; and if ye believed in Muhammad, this is His Messenger; and if ye believed in the Spirit, by God, this is He Who caused him to ascend unto heaven; and if ye believed in Him Who conversed with God, this is verily His Manifestation on Sinai; and if ye believed in the Most Hidden Mystery, behold, He hath appeared in truth in human temple   BH01351

The Apostles of Christ attained to the greatest station in life, yet they were vilified and scorned in their days because they were followers of the humble Nazarene and they were considered us the most despised and ignorant! But now the brilliant lights of their stations have flooded the whole world with knowledge and wisdom. Each one of the Apostles is shining like unto a star from the horizon of Eternal Glory.  ABU1665

This most exalted station and loftiest summit and ultimate goal ended with the Seal of the Prophets, may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him. He is the Seal through whom the Beginning was made manifest, and He is the Last through whom the First became evident. He is the Manifestation of 'He doeth what He willeth' and the Embodiment of the words 'He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden.'   BH00917

The Ancient Being hath appeared in truth, and the Essence of Pre-existence hath dawned from this holy, exalted, mighty and manifest horizon. Thereby hath the Beauty of the Adored One been revealed with all names and attributes, would that ye might perceive. Say: This is a Day wherein God hath transcended all Manifestations, and wherein the Holy Spirit ascendeth at every moment, would that ye might be assured.   BH01480

The sublimity of glory, the exaltation of beauty, the transcendence of deeds, and the supremacy of self-subsistence and independence - who can describe Him by that which is attributed to Him? For every description is described through the manifestation of itself, and every attribute is attributed through the manifestation of its own nature. This is the mirror wherein none shall see God except God, before and after.  BB00003

He hath made them guides to Thy names and channels for the manifestation of Thy knowledge and examples. All besides them among Thy creatures are created through them, sustained through them, caused to die through them, and given life through them. Thou hast distinguished them with Thy remembrance only because they believe in the Manifestation of Thy Self, their Names in every Dispensation and Concealment from Thee.  BB00005

And prayers and peace be upon Him through whom the Cause of the House and its dwellers was raised up, He through whose will the Will of God appeared and through whose volition His pervading Will was manifest, through whose utterance flowed the river of mercy, through whom the cycle of Prophethood and Messengership was ended, the proof was completed and the blessing perfected, and the mysteries of divinity were revealed.   BH04612

Their horizons enfold the universe, for they are the suns of real truth illuminating all the regions of thought, dispersing the darkness, uplifting the world of mankind and making the material world heavenly. Were it not for these divine messengers there would be no consciousness of continuity. They are the focal points of all the human and divine attainments, for they bring eternal life and the promise of its fulfillment.  ABU1953

"Whatever good deeds man performs in this world have been originally inculcated by the Prophets and Manifestations of God. Were it not for the Prophets' teachings, man would remain ignorant and heedless like unto the brute beasts...Hence true excellence consists in acknowledging the Manifestations of God and loving up to their teachings. (For they set the standard of a truly good life and enable men to perform Good Deeds.)"  ABU1525

And I bear witness unto Muhammad - Thy blessings be upon him and his family - even as Thou hast testified in the glory of the Unseen, unconnected with any mention, for Thou didst create him for the glory of Thyself, the station of Thy sovereignty, and made him the station of Thy Lordship in fulfillment and decree, where nothing passeth from thing to thing save through him, nor is anything raised unto Thee save by his leave.   BB00196

Therefore, O my God, send Thy blessings upon Him Whom Thou hast made hidden in the treasuries of Thy might and concealed in the pavilions of Thy glory, Whom Thou hast chosen for the glory of manifestation in the station of Thy performance, and Whom Thou hast selected from the Essence of Light to reveal Thy decree - the Essence of Identity in the mystery of the Divine Cloud, the Abstract of Oneness upon the Throne of Splendor.  BH00181

The Truth, exalted be His station, is the possessor of the Most Great Infallibility, and the meaning of the Most Great Infallibility is that error, mistake and forgetfulness have no access whatsoever to that realm. This is the station of "He doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth." If He declares the qiblih to be toward the east, it is the indubitable truth, and if He declares it to be toward the west, likewise.   BH00831

And when Thou didst purpose to demonstrate the power of Thy sovereign might, and to glorify Thy word, and to guide the steps of Thy people, Thou didst raise up from among Thy creatures One of Thy servants, Whom Thou didst send forth with the signs of Thy sovereignty, and Whom Thou didst endue with the clear tokens of Thy oneness, that He might fulfill Thy testimony unto all created things, and perfect Thy proof before all men.   BH02535

The greatest proof of the Blessed Perfection - May my life be a ransom to Him - consists in the fact that he was always manifest and evident under all conditions and circumstances. He was never concealed nor was he disguised for one day. In Persia, in Bagdad, in Constantinople, in Adrianople and in the most great Prison Baha'u'llah ever withstood the persecutions of the enemies and kept his own ground in the face of all the world.  ABU0278

The Lord Christ said, 'He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father' -- God manifested in man. The sun does not leave his place in the heavens and descend into the mirror, for the actions of ascent and descent, coming and going, do not belong to the Infinite, they are the methods of finite beings. In the Manifestation of God, the perfectly polished mirror, appear the qualities of the Divine in a form that man is capable of comprehending.  ABU0061

Consider his Holiness Christ: He appeared in the world as one of the poor. He was born of a lowly family; all the apostles of Christ were of humble birth and His followers were of the very poorest of the community. If wealth were a necessity, Christ would have wished it for himself. He lived a simple life, and one of the titles of Baha'o'llah was 'the poor one.' In Persian His title was 'darvish' and that means one who has not a slave.   ABU0656

This utterance which He makes refers to that manifestation and those effulgences which are in essence and for their own sake, and to that fire of love which is ignited by itself and for itself. The Apostle believed in that which was sent down unto him, and likewise the manifestation and effulgence of heat and radiance of the sun in its own true mirror. These are the outpourings and manifestations from the Manifest in the Manifestation.   ABU1971

And the prayer shining forth from the horizon of the heaven of His grace be upon the Dawning-Place of His light, the Dayspring of His Revelation, the Source of His Command, the Repository of His knowledge, the Mine of His wisdom, the Ocean of His power, the Heaven of His bounty, and the Sun of His generosity - He Who stood in His station in the world amidst all peoples and guided mankind unto the straight path and the mighty announcement.   BH03444

Consider how all things have known their Lord solely through the tidings of the Messengers. The Messengers are the Thrones of His Revelation - God reveals Himself to them through themselves as He willeth. The likeness of Him Whom God shall make manifest is as the sun in heaven: whether it riseth or setteth, it is but one and the same sun. Likewise, whenever the Messengers are sent or will be sent, that which is manifest in them is one Will.  BB00005

He it is Who giveth you glad tidings of His servant's name in truth, by the truth, and verily in the Mother Book with God he is exalted and wise in truth. He it is before whom God hath appointed none to share the mystery of His name, in truth, by the truth. God indeed saluted him on the day of his birth, the day of his mission, and the day of his gathering on the land of the heart, among those around the Fire, in truth, upon the truth, alone.  BB00002

A Perfect Man is needed in this perspicuous age...to deem him who will be the World Teacher to be in need of education by others is like trying to create a resplendent Sun by using the oil and wick of a candle. But the light of this Perfect Man must be heavenly, not earthly; His perfections must be innate, not acquired; and His writings must be unbounded bestowals, not the products of the finite disciplines of this limited and contingent world.  ABU3698

This has been the mission of all the divine messengers -- to make man conscious of his eternal part. "By God, who is the only God and there is no God but he, this servant swears the masters did not come that man should adore them, or worship them or acknowledge their prophethood. Nay, rather, the masters of all time have suffered for none other than this -- the fleshly veils might be rent asunder and reality become manifest."  ABU1804

God hath chosen Him from among all created things for the station of His perpetuity, and singled Him out from amidst all existing things for the rank of His education. Through Him alone is God known, through Him alone is God described, through Him alone is God glorified, and through Him have all contingent things been illumined by the effulgences of His eternal glory and all realities been made radiant through the splendors of His everlasting might.  BB00005

This is the Most Hidden Treasure and this is the Heaven unto Which Jesus ascended and this is the Burning Bush Whereupon Moses discovered the Divine Guidance. This is the City Wherein the family of Moses abided and this is the Throne on High unto Which ascended the Apostle of God and this is the Unseen World from Whence these signs appeared and the lights shone forth and the suns arose and the luminaries appeared and the stars shed their splendour.   AB03072

It is incumbent upon one who claims such a momentous matter that he be characterized by all perfect attributes, both theoretical and practical, and that he lack not any branch of knowledge or custom, and that he have complete and detailed mastery over all outward and inward sciences, and that there be no matter of divine grace or supernatural occurrence that is praiseworthy in God's sight except that he possess it definitively, not merely potentially   BB00471

Nay, by Thy glory, the Manifestation of Thy Self, Who is the Point, and whosoever is endued with His attributes, will never love to witness aught save in those who obey Thee and walk in the ocean of Thy good-pleasure. And should He witness one who obeyeth Thee not and walketh not in the ocean of Thy good-pleasure, there is no doubt that should such a one turn unto Him, He will don the garment of Thy severity, Thy grasp, Thy forbearance and Thy conquest.  BB00188

As to the manifestation of the Greatest Name (BAHA'O'LLAH): This was the Divine Manifestation which appeared upon the earthly world. This is He whom God promised in all His Books and Scriptures, such as the Bible, the Gospels and the Koran. All of these Books indicate this fact, and the least doubt cannot possibly occur to the minds concerning this clear fact, as is recorded in detail in the heavenly Books, especially in the brilliant and holy Tablets.   AB02315

This sublime and most exalted matter cannot be realized except through the Manifestation of His Self, Who is Him and none else. His Manifestation hath never been, nor shall ever be, confined within any limitation or made contingent upon any permission or command, inasmuch as every command is ordained by His command and remembered by His remembrance. He hath been and shall ever be, in His own Self, independent of and sanctified above all else besides Him.  BH11760

He has chosen a sublime essence, an exalted camphor-like reality, a resplendent simplicity, a lofty abstraction, and a majestic form. Then He revealed Himself to it through itself, and established it in the station of His being known, His being praised, His being sought, His being loved, His being described, His being thanked, His being feared, His being desired, His being longed for, and His being beheld - for He is too exalted to be praised by any save Him.  BB00003

By God, the True One! If ye were to observe with the eye of insight, ye would find inscribed upon My luminous brow, by the most ancient Pen with musk-scented ink from the fingers of My power, in the most glorious script: "By God, this is the Most Exalted Perspective, this is the Most Great Beauty, this is He through one glance of Whose eyes were created the kingdoms of eternity, the cities of names, and the manifestations of oneness in the realm of creation."   BH01461

"He Who appeared with the name 'Ali before Nabil is verily the Manifestation of His Self, the Dayspring of His Cause, the Treasury of His knowledge, the Rising Place of His Revelation, the Repository of His signs, and the Source of His mercy unto all worlds. And He Who hath appeared and shone forth with His Most Luminous, Most Glorious Name in His latter Manifestation is for His glory, then His might and grandeur over all who are in the heavens and the earth."   BH01678

I bear witness that Muhammad, upon Whom and upon Whose family be the blessings of God, is His First Remembrance, Whom He originated for Himself and brought forth for His Cause, Whom He approved for His sovereignty and chose for His message, establishing Him upon the throne of His Own unique dominion, distinguished from any likeness among humankind or similitude, for He cannot be associated with the beauty of creation nor described by the attributes of servants.  BB00079

And peace and blessings be upon the Point of Existence, the Ultimate Goal, and the Possessor of the Praiseworthy Station, through Whom God revealed His names and attributes, sent down His principles and ordinances, and exalted the station of His loved ones. He it is through Whom the hidden secret and the treasured matter were revealed, through Whom divine favors were completed, clear proofs were concluded, and the blessings of revelation and utterance were cut off.  BH11625

This is a Book sent down in truth, and verily it is a guidance and mercy unto all the worlds. Indeed it is God's testimony amongst His servants, His proof amidst His creation, His most great evidence among His creatures, and His balance which hath been established in truth - yet the people comprehend not its utterance. Verily it is the Most Great Sign, the Most Exalted Countenance, and the Mystery of the First and the Last, made manifest in the Most Glorious Garment  BH00233

When any attribute is ascribed to the Manifestations of the Ever-Living, the Self-Subsisting, it cannot be compared to the same attribute in others. When we say "The Apostle believed in what was revealed to him," his belief is not like the belief of others. When we say that Moses and his companion forgot their fish, their forgetfulness is not like that of others. This is the station where it is said "The good deeds of the righteous are the sins of those drawn nigh."  AB00134

O people! Be fair! Defile not existence with unseemly false statements and fabricated stories. By the Sun of knowledge that shineth resplendent from the most exalted horizon of utterance, from the beginning of the world until now no Revelation like unto this hath appeared. He is the Interlocutor of Sinai Who sitteth upon the throne of Revelation. He is the Great News mentioned in the former Books, Whose advent the Prophets and Messengers foretold unto all peoples.  BH09331

This blessed Primal Word hath been designated by all the goodly names. He is the Straight Path and the Mighty News. He is the Dawning-Place of God's Cause and the Dayspring of His divine revelation. He is the Sure Handle and the Supreme Horizon. He is the Manifestation of God amidst all else beside Him. All that which creation hath heard and become enabled to know and comprehend hath been taken from that Source of divine wisdom and that Dayspring of celestial knowledge.   BH00316

Thou hast made them the pillars of Thy unity, the interpreters of Thy revelation, the manifestations of Thy Self, and the signs of Thy sovereignty. Thou hast removed all distinction between Thee and them in the station of guidance unto Thee, such that all behold in the station of their knowledge Thy knowledge, in the station of their love Thy love, in the station of their manifestation Thy manifestation, and in the station of their concealment the sovereignty of Thy power.   BB00291

And if thou wishest to behold this with thine own eyes, look at the manifestation of Muhammad, wherein is manifested all that is beneath His shadow, indicating the name of King in kingship and the name of Cultivator in cultivation, and whatsoever lieth between them within their own limits of existence. In the Bayan, since it is still in the realm of possibility and hath not yet come into being, thou dost not see it manifested, though thou canst perceive it through knowledge.  BB00005

Therefore reflect upon this Perfect Manifestation, this Distinguished Dayspring, this All-Encompassing Effulgence. Verily He is the gatherer of all ranks and exalted stations, heavenly realities, celestial subtleties, and divine outpourings. Likewise He is the gatherer of created realities and contingent darkness. In truth, He is the Greatest Medium, the Supreme Intermediary, the meeting place of the two seas, the confluence of the two rivers, and the possessor of two stations.  AB03551

The outward and inward reality of this Point of Sorrow testifieth that today the Dayspring of Eternity is sovereign over all who are in the heavens and on earth. He is the Lord of all books and the Illuminator of all scriptures. Through Him are established the pillars of the Bayan, and through His name was set firm the throne of Paradise in the essence of creation, and through Him were raised the highest heavens, and through Him was the earth made stable upon the pillar of light.   BH01444

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, and that this Youth is His proof unto all who are in the heavens and on earth, His sovereignty unto all who are in the realms of Revelation and creation, the Spirit of glory unto those in the Concourse on High, the Breath of holiness unto those in the Kingdom of Names, and His Most Great Name unto those who dwell in the Ark of Glory. His are the most excellent titles and the most exalted similitudes, which none save He hath known.   BH01057

First Visitation... God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him. His are the most excellent names. All that are in the heavens and on the earth and whatsoever lieth between them sing His praise. There is none other God but Him, the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting. And verily the Glory from God was upon the Throne of Reality in the Qur'an, wherein all who are in the heavens and who are on the earth and whatsoever lieth between them were illumined by the light of His Being.  BB00080

He Who hath come from the heaven of divine revelation is the Hidden Secret, the Impenetrable Mystery, Whose advent hath been foretold in the Book of God and hath been heralded by His Prophets and Messengers. Through Him the mysteries have been unravelled, the veils rent asunder and the signs and evidences disclosed. Lo! He hath now been made manifest. He bringeth to light whatsoever He willeth, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, invested with transcendent majesty and power.   BH02984

O 'Ali! Bear thou witness that I am the Manifestation of God in the heaven of eternity, His Hidden Mystery in the unseen realm of the divine cloud, the Ancient Beauty in the kingdom of glory, and the Primal Spirit in the most exalted vesture. All were created by My command and circle round Me, all act by My bidding, and all have prostrated themselves before My countenance and clung to the hem of My loving-kindness, even though they perceive it not within themselves in this wondrous Temple.   BH00395

I gave an exposition regarding the claim of the Divine Manifestations, Who considered Themselves God's mirror. I also considered the situation appropriate for saying, His Holiness the Bab states, 'I am the Mirror of God.' His purpose is to show the Sanctified Manifestations teach that, 'God's Effulgence shines upon Us, and from Us shines upon the creation.' It is in this station that They claim divinity. If the sun shining in the mirror claims that it is the sun, indeed it has spoken the truth.  ABU0195

Each of the Manifestations in previous Dispensations had a station in existence and a rank in human development. But the Manifestation of the Most Great Name--may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones--represents the maturity and coming of age of human reality in the world of existence. For the sun is the source of light, the fountainhead of heat, and the center of illumination, combining within itself all the perfections that have been manifested by the other luminous stars upon the horizons.  AB00305

We cannot say that the Manifestations are either greater or lesser. In order to make this distinction, we must be greater than they. The only thing we know is this-THEY ARE LIFE! But to say that one is greater and the other lesser, -this is beyond the comprehension of our intellects. In order to know that they are greater or lesser, we must surround them. But we are the surrounded, not the surrounding. We see that they bestow light, --that the rest of the world is illumined by them, -that is all.   ABU1406

And as for what thou hast mentioned concerning the station of the Point of the Bayan, We have mentioned to thee two mighty stations: The first, in the inmost of the inmost, wherein naught can be seen save all are rememberers unto Him; and in a station of the outmost of the outmost, that is the first that was created by God's command Be! and it is. And the likeness thereof is as the likeness of the sun from the first that hath no first unto the last that hath no last - it hath ever been but one sun.  BB00003

These gates, which in truth are primarily the gates of the effusions of the King of Oneness, are the guides of the Way and the bearers of proof and evidence. They are the Manifestations of Names and Attributes, and the Dawning-places of revelation and signs. In every age and cycle, a gate among the gates was opened to the face of creation through a name among the Names, until it culminated in the ultimate gates of the Most Great Grace, the Most Noble Station, the Supreme Rank, and the Uttermost Goal.  BH01212

And I bear witness that Muhammad, the blessings of God be upon him and his family, is His servant whom He chose for His Cause before all things, and whom his Lord selected for His love on the Day of the Seal after the passing away of all things - he who existed before the mention of anything and who is sought after the passing away of everything. He is a Messenger whom God sent forth in that Day for the knowledge of His Self, and made him the station of His sovereignty in every scene of His grandeur   BB00402

The Blessed Perfection and the Bab are Unique and Peerless in this Dispensation - until the next Manifestation. The belief, the opinion and the thought of all the believers must revolve around this common Center. This oneness of belief must become fully realized; so that in the future there may arise no difference. His Holiness the Bab was the Morn of Guidance; the Blessed Perfection the Desired One of all the religions and nations and all of us are under the Blessed Shade, non-existent and evanescent.   ABU0128

The real Manifestation of God must be endowed with divine knowledge and not dependent upon learning acquired in schools. He must be the Educator, not the educated; His standard, intuition instead of tuition. He must be perfect and not imperfect, great and glorious instead of being weak and impotent. He must be wealthy in the riches of the spiritual world and not indigent. In a word, the holy, divine Manifestation of God must be distinguished above all others of mankind in every aspect and qualification.  ABU0033

'Ali is His Manifestation and His Concealment, His Invisibility and His Visibility, His Might and His Glory, His Dominion and His Splendor unto all who are in the heavens and on earth. Through Him the Sun hath shone forth from the horizon of glory and the Moon of the Cause hath appeared from this sanctified and luminous heaven. Through Him God's appointed time hath been fulfilled, His proof perfected, His evidence made manifest, and His countenance hath appeared from behind the veil with clear authority.   BH01339

The daysprings of those effulgences, the dawning-places of those revelations, and the sources of those manifestations are those Exponents of holiness, those universal Realities and divine Beings who are the true mirrors of the sanctified Essence of the Divinity. All the perfections, bounties and splendours of the one true God are plainly visible in the realities of His Holy Manifestations, even as the light of the sun is fully reflected with all its perfections and bounties in a clear and spotless mirror.   AB00105

Man, therefore, on the plane of the contingent world is the most perfect being. By man is meant the perfect individual, who is like unto a mirror in which the divine perfections are manifested and reflected. But the sun doth not descend from the height of its sanctity to enter into the mirror, but when the latter is purified and turned towards the Sun of Truth, the perfections of this Sun, consisting of light and heat, are reflected and manifested in that mirror. These souls are the Divine Manifestations of God.  AB01382

Nay, that which the Manifestation of Thy Self doeth, that is what Thou hast done, and that which the Manifestation of Thy wisdom decreeth, that is what Thou hast decreed. And verily it is one Essence, were it to rise with that which hath no beginning, and one Reality, were it to set with that which hath no equal, and one Simplicity, were it to rest in the heaven of majesty with that which hath no peer. For its likeness before Thee is as the likeness of the sun which Thou didst not create except through manifestation.   BB00169

But the hearts of all people have been consumed by the implications of thy words and the explicitness of thy expressions, for all of them return, according to your suppositions, to that Station which - by God besides Whom there is no God - even if these whom thou hast taken as thy beloved ones besides God were to soar throughout the eternity of God, they would never reach the atmosphere wherein wafteth the breeze of one of His names that were created by His Word, let alone His own Self, the Powerful, the Exalted, the Wise.  BH00004

He hath made Him to stand in His own place in all evidences and to be manifest through the power of His invisibility in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. He hath enjoined upon all things His love and obedience, and hath warned all things against aught save His love and allegiance. He hath made His creation know Him through knowledge of His Self, and hath made all things worship Him through the right of His Essence. Thus hath He made Him the mirror of His Self in the eternity of eternities, never ceasing and never to cease.  BB00005

The oneness of God, exalted be His glory, is not established save through the Manifestation of His Self, the Dawning-Place of His Cause, the Dayspring of His Revelation, and His Representative among creation. In the Dispensation of the Furqan, the Seal of the Prophets (may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake) attained this station. Were any likeness or peer to be found for that Essence of existence and Cause of creation, how could the sanctification of the Creator's Being from peers and likeness be established?  BH01235

Moses feared Pharaoh's lack of belief, not fear for his life, as stated in the Qur'an: "Verily I fear lest they should hasten to harm me." He says I fear they will act hastily before the propagation of the Cause and make objections. He feared their rebellion and disobedience, not for himself. As for the matter of fearing the ropes and staffs of the sorcerers, he feared they might influence souls, not fear of harm to himself. These ropes and staffs represent the doubts of the people. Moses feared these might influence souls.   AB01558

He is the Most Great Talisman in the world. The "man" who is here mentioned refers, in its primary degree, to the Seal of the Prophets - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake. He is the manifestation of the words "He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden." He is the Primal Point from which all the books of the world have been derived and elaborated. He is the true Most Great Sign and the spiritual Farthest Mosque. He is the Kaaba of God among creation and the Frequented Fane amidst His servants.   BH01081

Although the royal farman specifically decreed that Baha'u'llah was to be held in solitary confinement within the 'Akka fortress, in a cell, under perpetual guard; that He was never to set foot outside; that He was never even to see any of the believers--notwithstanding such a farman, such a drastic order, His tent was raised in majesty on the heights of Mount Carmel. What greater display of power could there be than this, that from the very prison, the banner of the Lord was raised aloft, and rippled out for all the world to see!  AB00002

When His proof is established, that utterance is not that by which one would seek to prove, and after its verification, whosoever presenteth it to the Book shall find it in conformity therewith. And after the establishment of both, then it behooveth one to ask, but before that it is an utterance without proof and a mention without a way. It beseemeth not the wise knower and the steadfast scholar to ask about something whose religion is not established with him. In every Manifestation, all that was ordained before is raised up anew.  BB00043

Then know that the Divine Manifestations are true Suns who have ever been in a state of perfection and will forever remain sources of light - there is no change or alteration. However, resurrection is the day of the proclamation of the Cause, the appearance of the Call, the spreading of the Word, and the exposition of the teachings. Otherwise Christ and all the Divine Manifestations from eternity unto eternity are brilliant lights, radiant suns and holy spirits. Their appearance is according to the capacity and ability of the world.   AB02443

Indeed, he was the youth who was illumined by the effulgences of the lights of the Kingdom and was nourished by the fruits of the Sinaitic Tree which shone forth upon the Mount of Immortality with manifest radiance. He was the youth who bore God's mysteries and treasures, were the people to know. He was the shell wherein was found the Hidden Pearl, which is the very essence of Him Who conversed with God, who gleamed with the lights of eternity and shone with the radiance of the Sun of the Most Great Name, though few among the people know this.  AB00009

This is the Day whereon Thy testimony hath been fulfilled, and Thy clear tokens have been manifested, and Thine utterances have been revealed, and Thy signs have been demonstrated, and the radiance of Thy countenance hath been diffused, and Thy proof hath been perfected, and Thine ascendancy hath been established, and Thy mercy hath overflowed, and the Day-Star of Thy grace hath shone forth with such brilliance that Thou didst manifest Him Who is the Revealer of Thyself and the Treasury of Thy wisdom and the Dawning-Place of Thy majesty and power.  BH01969

He hath come Who was mentioned in the hearts of the Prophets and inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in the Books of God. Say: He hath appeared and made manifest that which was hidden in knowledge, and hath spoken before the faces of the world in such wise that neither the veils of the wrongdoers nor the gestures of the heedless have hindered Him. The Sovereign of existence Who from the beginning of the Cause stood before the faces of all nations and spoke forth in praise and glorification, Who brought that which all the books of the past cannot equal.   BH00971

God has placed all the signs of the horizons within the souls. Had God not placed the signs of the horizons within the souls, the servant could not have discovered what lies in the horizons. Thus the recognition of the exposition of prophethood is established in the signs of the soul to facilitate recognition of the signs of the horizons. For reason indicates what God has placed within oneself by establishing a Creator. When one becomes certain, one must establish the Bearer of Universal Prophethood, for the eternal outpouring was never other than complete.  BB00014

And since the gates of knowledge and comprehension were closed, and the ultimate degree of the servants' understanding rejected, the Sovereign of existence, through His grace and bounty, caused the Manifestations of Oneness and Daysprings of Divine glory to appear from the horizon of Verily, I am He Who is manifest above all things, so that all people might attain unto the knowledge of God through recognition of these Suns dawning from the horizon of truth, and might be blessed with obedience to God and submission to His will through obedience to these holy Beings.  BH08110

The four letters which are mentioned in the tradition of the Imam (peace be upon him) that must be revealed with the Promised One are these four stations: The station of servitude, with which the Promised One arose at first; and the station of Imamate, concerning which He said "Verily I am the Qa'im Whose appearance was promised unto you"; third is the station of Prophethood, concerning which He said that the Holy Manifestations have no beginning and no end; fourth is the word "Verily I am God" - "He speaketh not from mere impulse. His utterance is but revealed revelation."

And blessings and peace be upon Him through Whom was opened the door of all knowledge and wisdom, and through Whom the breezes of the All-Merciful wafted over all lands and the fragrance of the garment was diffused among all religions. Exalted be He Whom God hath made the Dawning-Place of His signs, the Dayspring of His power, the Source of His commandments, and the Manifestation of His laws. Through Him all created things were moved and all existing things were quickened. Through Him the sea revealed its waves, the Books their mysteries, and the earth its treasures.   BH00763

I testify that Thou art He through Whom the Beauty of the All-Glorious was established upon the throne of His name, the All-Merciful, and through Whom the Primal Will was manifested unto all created beings, and through Whom the bounty of Paradise descended from the heaven of grace from Thy Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower, and through Whom the Command of God, the Supreme, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Omnipotent, was revealed. I testify that Thou wert the first Light that shone forth from the Beauty of Divine Unity and the first Sun that dawned from the horizon of Divinity.   BH00280

For in this great accomplishment He stood single and alone. Could He have made such a change and brought about such a condition among these people without the sanction and assistance of a heavenly power? Could He have transformed a people from humiliation to glory without a holy and divine support? None other than a divine power could have done this. Therein lies the proof of Prophethood because the mission of a Prophet is education of the human race such as this Personage accomplished, proving Him to be a mighty Prophet among the Prophets and His Book the very Book of God.  ABU0002

I testify, O my God, that from the first moment Thou didst manifest the Manifestation of Thyself, it was the first Day of Resurrection. Thou didst make Thyself known to all things as Thou wert known by all before, lest any should be veiled from Thy countenance after Thy making Thyself known and Thy revelation of Thy verses. For whoso had known Thee before was certain that none but Thee could reveal a verse, and after one hath seen, no path remaineth save to be convinced that both are from Thee, for none but Thee hath ever been the Source of Messengers or the Revealer of Books.   BB00206

Therefore, O my God, send Thy blessings upon Him Who raised the pavilions of Thy grandeur through Thy celestial might, Who manifested the tabernacle of Thy loftiness through Thy divine power, Who sat upon the throne of Thy Lordship and reclined upon the couch of Thy Divinity, Who was seated at the right hand of Thy power, before Thy might, to the south of Thy grandeur and to the north of Thy loftiness. Thou didst make Him the Supreme Ruler over all Thy names and attributes in the kingdom of Thy Command, and the Self-Subsisting, the Transcendent One in the heaven of Thy creation.  BH00612

At one time He appeareth as the water which is Life indeed, sent down out of the heaven of Thy grace, and poured forth from the clouds of thy mercy, that Thy creatures may be endued with new life, and live as long as Thine own Kingdom endureth. Every drop of that water would suffice to quicken the dead, and to set their faces in the direction of Thy favors and Thy gifts, and to rid them of all attachment to aught else except Thee. At another time He revealeth Himself as the Fire which Thou didst kindle in the tree of Thy unity, whose heat melted the hearts of Thine ardent lovers  BH01071

Moreover, the words and verses of Christ, when taken altogether, would comprise at most ten pages, whereas if the verses of Baha'u'llah were gathered together from beginning to end, they would fill several trunks. Aside from this, the utterances of Christ in the Gospel are solely concerned with spiritual admonitions and with the improvement and rectification of human character, whereas the Writings of Baha'u'llah encompass manifold expressions of wisdom and inner meaning, realities and sciences, counsels and admonitions, and explanations and exegeses of the Sacred Scriptures of old.  AB00267

He has chosen a sublime Essence, and a pure and resplendent Reality, an exalted and crystalline Being, a distinguished and transcendent Nature, a radiant and effulgent Identity, a brilliant and lustrous Presence, a majestic and magnificent Existence, an august and splendid Entity, a powerful and mighty Reality, and a most glorious and sublime Being. Then did His Glory shine forth in its own essence, and He cast into its identity the image of His Self. Thus was manifested from it that which was within and upon it, filling thereby the heavens and the earth and all that lies between them.   BB00539

When He created the Sun of Truth through the Tongue of God by itself - for example, when God revealed to Muhammad, the Messenger of God, that there is no God but Him - He manifested unto him that he should speak from God, saying: Verily We have sent thee as a witness, a bearer of glad tidings, a warner, one who summoneth unto God by His leave, and as a luminous lamp. Through this Word was the Sun of Truth created, such that from the beginning that hath no beginning it hath been the Throne of God's manifestation, and unto the end that hath no end it shall be the Seat of God's revelation.  BB00027

This is the work that Baha'u'llah has done and is doing. He has not tied together the iron bars - the religions of the world - with the rope of indulgent tolerance or ordinary amenities of human necessity which are liable to break at any time - but with the fire of the love of God He has melted them first and then casting them into one mould of spiritual brotherhood. He has rendered the most marvelous service to the world of humanity. Baha'u'llah is this divine Metallurgist and those who have the deep insight and look around the world witness daily the working of this Principle of fusion.   ABU1941

Therefore, the Manifestations of God are the focal points of attention. In the dispensation of the Prophet (peace be upon Him), the Beauty of Muhammad and the Reality of Ahmad were the focus of attention, until the Day of the Manifestation of the Bab. And on the day of the dawning of the Greatest Glad-Tidings, the Point of attention was the Bab (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him). And today the center of attention and the object of supplication and imploring is the Abha Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones) until the Manifestation who will come after the thousand years.   AB06626

Thy being hath ascended on high and all things have fallen prostrate before thy dust, and thy reality hath been sanctified to such heights that all things have bowed down before the dwellers of thy will. By thy glory! Thou wert never abased, and God hath ever exalted thee and sent down upon thee His might. I testify that thou wert pure, purifying, and purified, from a pure, purifying, and purified source. Thou hast glorified God with all thy being, sanctified God through thine essence, unified God through thy reality, magnified God through thy identity, and extolled God through thy pristine nature.   BB00233

Blessings, peace, salutations and praise be upon the Manifestations of His Cause, the Dawning-Places of His Revelation, the Daysprings of His wisdom and the Daybreaks of His knowledge--they who have forsaken the world and taken hold of that which they were bidden by God, the Lord of eternity and Creator of nations. These are God's ambassadors and His chosen ones, His trustees and His loved ones. Whoso hath recognized them hath recognized God, and whoso hath turned towards them hath turned towards God. They have no will, nor judgment, nor movement, nor rest, nor mention save by God's leave and through His might and power.   BH00801

Pointing with her finger unto My head, she addressed all who are in heaven and all who are on earth, saying: By God! This is the Best-Beloved of the worlds, and yet ye comprehend not. This is the Beauty of God amongst you, and the power of His sovereignty within you, could ye but understand. This is the Mystery of God and His Treasure, the Cause of God and His glory unto all who are in the kingdoms of Revelation and of creation, if ye be of them that perceive. This is He Whose Presence is the ardent desire of the denizens of the Realm of eternity, and of them that dwell within the Tabernacle of glory, and yet from His Beauty do ye turn aside.  BH00007

So grievous have become all matters unto Me from every direction that I have accepted for Myself that which no one among all the peoples of the world would accept for himself. If My crime be that there have been revealed unto Me the verses of God, then by God, this hath not proceeded from Me but rather from One mighty and beautiful. By God, I am not the first to have committed this crime - nay, most of the Prophets committed it, among them Ali before Nabil, and before him Muhammad the Apostle of God, and before him the Spirit (Christ), and before him He Who conversed with God (Moses) - all spoke that which the Spirit inspired them from the Kingdom of God, the All-Possessing, the Almighty.  BH01053

"All our great Prophets from Noah to Moses, from Christ and Muhammad down to the Holy Ones of our days, the Bab and the Perfect Beauty of Baha'u'llah - to name but the most great - have recognized God in history, They have placed all temporal things in an eternal context, They have measured Their era and its occurrences with a divine, eternal standard. All true and great Prophets demanded pure worship of God and equitable judgment; They, as the embodied Voice of God, have clearly testified to the Will and the Plans of God, the Creator, to Their contemporaries and beyond, to all people of Their age and for the future, They have expounded the Word of God and have demanded and commanded obedience."   ABU0374

For on that Day He is above every possessor of knowledge, All-Knowing, All-Informed, All-Wise; above every possessor of power, All-Powerful, Most Potent, All-Mighty; above every possessor of greatness, Most Great, All-Glorious, Most Sublime; above every possessor of loftiness, Most Lofty, Most Exalted, Most High; above every possessor of might, All-Mighty, Most Strong, Most Powerful; above every possessor of sovereignty, All-Ruling, Most Sovereign, All-Wise; above every possessor of bounty, All-Bountiful, Most Generous, Most Munificent; above every possessor of authority, All-Commanding, Most Authoritative, Most Supreme; above every possessor of grace, All-Gracious, Most Excellent, Most Beneficent.  BH00004

By My life! The Bayan was revealed for His wondrous remembrance and every lofty thing was realized through His exalted station. Were it not for Him, the Primal Point would not have spoken, the Dove would not have warbled, the Sperm-drop of Names would not have attained maturity, the gate of heaven would not have opened, the Book of Creation would not have been adorned, the Tablet of Eternity would not have been embellished, the Most Exalted Pen would not have moved, the hearts of the chosen ones would not have soared, the horizon of faithfulness would not have been illumined, the ocean of reunion would not have surged, the carpet of separation would not have been rolled up, and the star of meeting would not have shone forth.   BH03440

I beseech Thee by Him Whom Thou hast manifested and made His Revelation the very Revelation of Thyself, and His concealment the very concealment of Thyself; and through His primacy Thou hast confirmed Thine own primacy, and through His finality Thou hast established Thine own finality; and through His power and dominion every possessor of power hath testified to Thy power, and through His grandeur every possessor of grandeur hath testified to Thy grandeur and Thy majesty; and through His self-subsistence Thy self-subsistence and all-encompassing nature have become known; and through His Will Thy Will hath been manifested; and through His countenance Thy Face hath shone forth; and through His command Thy Command hath become manifest  BH11730

Blessings and peace be upon the first ear that was blessed to hearken unto the call of the Lord of Names, and the first eye that witnessed and beheld the greatest signs of its Lord, and the first hand that was raised to the heaven of bounty, and the first foot that hastened to the seat of the throne of the Creator of heaven, and the first countenance that turned toward the lights of the Face, and the first light that shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the Cause whereby surged the ocean of knowledge in creation and the mysteries of the Books were revealed through clear proof and evidence, and through whom the stations of revelation and inspiration were completed and the messages of God, the Lord of all beings, were sealed.  BH00776

But the individual reality of the Manifestations of the All-Merciful is a sanctified reality, and it is so because it surpasses in essence and in attributes all created things. It is like the sun, which, by virtue of its inherent disposition, must inevitably produce light, and cannot be compared to any satellite. For instance, the constituent parts of the sun can in no wise be compared to those of the moon. The composition and arrangement of the former necessarily produce rays, whereas the constituent parts of the latter require the acquisition, rather than the production, of light. So the other human realities are souls, which, like the moon, acquire their light from the sun, but that sanctified Reality is luminous in and of itself.  AB00477

None can establish the special prophethood of Muhammad, peace be upon Him and His family, in its reality through the signs in the souls and horizons, for all that is beneath the essence of the bearer of special prophethood is but a trace in relation to that station. The reality of the recognition of a thing is not established through the traces of its manifestations. Rather, whoso desireth to establish His special prophethood must not make anything less than His Self as proof thereof, nor any path unto Him save His Own Essence, for all things are cut off from Him due to the transcendence of the glory of His majesty in God's dominion, and all traces are prevented from recognizing His presence due to the sublimity of His effulgent radiance in God's religion.  BB00014

the knowledge of God is manifested only through the knowledge of the Manifestation of His Self, for all created things have known their Lord only through what the Messengers of God have taught them. Thus knowledge beginneth with Them and endeth with Them, for They are the veils of God whom none can know save God. Their likeness is as mirrors wherein naught can be seen except God. Therefore They desire naught but what God hath desired, They will naught but what God hath willed, They have no power save what God hath empowered, They decree naught save what God hath decreed, They permit naught save what God hath permitted, They defer naught save what God hath deferred, and They inscribe naught save what God hath inscribed.  BB00005

Verily, through His Advent hath come to be fulfilled the Advent about which glad tidings have been given by the Messengers of God from all eternity and there hath come to pass about which God hath revealed in the Qur'an: 'On that Day they shall all rise before the Lord of mankind.' Truly the Cycle of Prophethood hath been rolled up and He Who hath sent down the Prophets hath come, arrayed with a manifest and perspicuous sovereignty. He, verily, is the One at Whose Advent all created things have given this utterance: 'The Kingdom is God's, the Sovereign, the Almighty, the All-Praised.' He is the One for Whom the necks of God's Chosen Saints have been outstretched in longing and ardent expectation and every Prophet hath awaited His Presence in this wondrous Day.   BH03572

Know that the human spirit is one, but it manifests itself in various members of the body in a certain (measure or) form. The human spirit is existent in the sight (eyes); it is also existent in the brain, which is the location of great functions and powers; it is also existent in the heart, which organ is largely connected with the brain or the center of the mind, and the heart, or that center which is connected with the brain, has a distinct and separate function, effect and appearance. In this connection, the hair and the nails have no command (or direct feeling). Figuratively speaking, the Father is the center of the brain and the Son is the center of the heart; the rest of the Prophets are members and parts. Fatherhood and Prophethood, in this case, are two expressions of the same thing, as man and creature are two names of the same reality.   AB02627

Through Him all created things were made to glorify Thee, and to celebrate Thy praise, and every soul was directed towards the kingdom of Thy revelation and Thy sovereignty. At one time, Thou didst raise Him up, O my God, and didst attire Him with the ornament of the name of Him Who conversed with Thee (Moses), and didst through Him uncover all that Thy will had decreed and Thine irrevocable purpose ordained. At another time, Thou didst adorn Him with the name of Him Who was Thy Spirit (Jesus), and didst send Him down out of the heaven of Thy will, for the edification of Thy people, infusing thereby the spirit of life into the hearts of the sincere among Thy servants and the faithful among Thy creatures. Again, Thou didst reveal Him, decked forth by the name of Him Who was Thy Friend (Muhammad), and caused Him to shine brightly above the horizon of Hijaz  BH01071

If all upon the earth today were to become delicate mirrors and bear witness to a matter, it would not suffice, for the testimony of all is dependent upon the Manifestation Himself, even as the Point of the Bayan - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - says concerning the later Revelation, exalted be His mention: If all upon the earth were to testify to a matter, and He were to testify without their testimony, His testimony would be like the sun while their testimony would be like the sun's reflection, which has not come into alignment, else it would conform to His testimony. I swear by God's Most Holy Essence that one line of His word is better than the words of all upon earth - nay, I seek forgiveness for this comparative expression. How can the effects of suns in mirrors equal the effects of the sun in the sky? The former is at the level of nothingness while the latter is at the level of bringing things into being through God, mighty and glorious is He.  BH00004

Know that verily I have been and remain a believer, confessor, submitter, proclaimer, rememberer, speaker, caller, crier, exclaimer, declarer, conveyor, and one who announces with the loudest voice that He is the Lord of the Most High, the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing, the Tree of the Uttermost Boundary, the Kingdom on High, the Dominion of the Cloud, the Divine Realm of Immortality, the Spirit of Glory, the Most Great Mystery, the Most Perfect Word, the Ancient Manifestation, the Most Noble Temple, the Secret Symbol, the Lord of Nations, the Surging Ocean, the Most Exalted Word, the First Pearl, the Hidden Scroll, the Treasured Book, the Beauty of Divine Unity, the Manifestation of Identity, and the Dawning-Place of Divine Unity. But for Him, existence would not have appeared, nor would the Intended One be known, nor would the Beauty of the Adored One have shone forth. By God! By His Name were created the heavens and all therein, and the earth and all thereon. Through Him the seas were set in motion, the rivers flowed, the trees bore fruit. Through Him were the religions established and the Beauty of the All-Merciful was made manifest.  BH00004

All that God hath revealed aforetime, or in this Book, or will reveal hereafter through the appearance of His Self - that is the appearance of the Primal Tree which reciteth the verses of God.  BB00004

