
The just king is as the head to the body of the world.   BH11300

The monarchs of the world are servants of the servants of the Truth  AB11344

Today the true duty of a powerful king is to establish a universal peace  ABU3109

if he deals unjustly and tyranically with his people he forfeits the right to govern them  ABU3550

Make this just sovereignty everlasting... May it endure forever and ever for the authorities.  AB11189

You will see the name of the Qajar obliterated, and no trace of them or their rule will remain.  BHU0066

The just king is the lamp of the world and the cause of the reformation and prosperity of nations.   BH11271

It is incumbent upon the kings and the spiritual leaders of the world to lay fast hold on religion, inasmuch as through it the fear of God is instilled in all else but Him.  BH00005

Kings are the manifestations of divine power, and what is intended is their justice - if they observe this, they are related to the Truth   BH01115

The kings and rulers of the world are not yet ready to acknowledge that universal peace is conducive to the life of the world of humanity.  ABU3041

I now see ships have anchored in this bay, and with utmost humility and modesty monarchs will come to visit the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab].  ABU3654

for the reins will be taken out of the hands of an able, absolute Monarch and placed into the hands of a number of self-interested, useless parasites.  ABU2156

O concourse of princes! Beware lest the veils of the world withhold you from the Lord of all men. That which ye possess shall perish in less than a moment  BH01922

even kings became subjects and emperors became extinct and ruined. Crowns and thrones were overturned and diadems and coronets fell into the dust of abasement.   AB07257

"Their glory is but temporal and mortal, for they are but rules of this ephemeral sphere, where all things change from day to day and finally pass away entirely"   ABU2769

Crowned monarchs with their diadems became bedfellows with dust, While he, like a radiant star from the East, Shines eternal in the firmament of universal dominion  AB10631

His Imperial Majesty shows utmost patience and resists oppression and tyranny with justice and fairness... for truly he is a kind king and a benevolent monarch full of favors.  AB00541

The monarchy continued in his family until Bonaparte's time when it became a republic. Constantine entered under the shadow of Christ and his reign extended until the time of Islam.   ABU0774

no censure is permissible towards any of the ruling sovereigns...how much less against the rulers and the kings of the earth, insofar as this is at variance with the explicit Text of the Book  AB03866

Kings are in truth enslaved servants, needy and destitute. The true sovereigns of the kingdom of real dominion are the servants of the loved ones of God and the bondsmen of the divine Threshold.  AB06729

"Although a republican government profits all the people of the world, yet the majesty of Kingship is one of the signs of God. We do not wish that the countries of the world should be deprived thereof."  ABU1815

The Kayanid kings wore crowns and diadems and raised golden canopies, but what benefit was it? It did not endure. Some among them, in the other world, raised the banner of eternal glory and became noble.  AB08723

Thou hadst written about the Crown Prince's accession to the throne of sovereignty. We hope that he may be assisted and confirmed, and that the means of comfort and tranquility for Iran and the Iranians may be secured.  AB10464

Observe how many calamities, afflictions, trials and tribulations surround kingship. No king is ever at peace for a moment, and all monarchs are slaves to pain and suffering.   AB11753

The kings of earth, bareheaded, and the queens, will walk up the boulevard of the Shrine of the Bab carrying bouquets of flowers. They will prostrate themselves, kiss that Sacred Threshold and place their crowns on that ennobled earth.  ABU2167

Know ye that God hath entrusted the earth to the hands of kings and made them the manifestations of His power amongst all created things, should they enter beneath the shadow of the Tree of His Cause. Apart from this, the matter resteth in His hands.   BH00610

In the blessed Tablets, mention of the justice and excellent governance of the august British government was repeatedly made, but now it has become evident. Indeed, the people of this land, after severe tribulations, have attained to comfort and tranquility.  AB01805

In reality, Shah Mozaffar is very gentle in his action and it is not indeed possible for him to show you more consideration than he does. Besides, God has now brought it about that the administration of affairs be in the hands of both the Government and the people.   ABU1564

"There will be constitutional monarchy, but they will have no independent power. Baha'o'llah says that in each country there should be one head (king) but there will not be a supreme king for the whole world. The universal Beit-ul-Adl will be the supreme authority."  ABU1350

His Majesty the Sultan of these realms--may God, the Blessed, the Most High, assist him and strengthen his government--has shown the utmost kindness toward the great claimant of Iran. Twice were matters sent to his presence, and both times he responded favorably and as desired.  BH00707

Thirty years ago I wrote to Sultan Abdul Hamid that if thou desirest to protect thy Empire thou must give complete freedom of rights to all thy subjects no matter to what religion they may belong and establish a constitution but he did not listen and you see today the results.  ABU2929

Now observe what was revealed by the Most Exalted Pen upon first arrival in the prison. He says that glory has been taken from two groups - from kings and from divines. This theme has been repeatedly revealed, and enlightened, steadfast and successful souls have seen and heard it.  BH00024

We desire to conclude the Book with mention of His Majesty the Sultan. We beseech God, exalted be He, to aid him, strengthen him, and protect him from the evil of the ignorant divines who act according to their own desires and judge among people by that which God hath not ordained.  BH01768

submit to the threshold of the All-Knowing Lord that the fortress of the kingdom is protected and the throne is safeguarded under the protection of the Omnipotent Lord. The crown of sovereignty shall illuminate the realm and the royal throne shall attain ultimate stability and permanence.  AB10937

In former centuries kings and rulers have absolutely dominated millions of men and have been thereby enabled to carry out whatsoever they desire. If they willed to bestow happiness and peace, they could do so; and if they determined to inflict suffering and discomfort, they were equally capable.  ABU0079

It would be preferable and more fitting that the highly honored kings themselves should attend such an assembly, and proclaim their edicts. Any king who will arise and carry out this task, he verily will, in the sight of God, become the cynosure of all kings. Happy is he, and great is his blessedness!  BH00005

Ships carrying the flag of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha! will anchor at the port [of Haifa] and kings will disembark. On foot and bareheaded, and with humility and modesty, and in a state of supplication and entreaty, chanting divine verses and prayers, they will attain to a visit of the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab].  ABU3684

We cherish the hope that through the endeavors of those in authority - the divinely chosen ones, that is, the kings and rulers who are the manifestations of God's power - this Cause may be assisted, that all may become free and unfettered and occupy themselves with their own affairs and that which profiteth them.  BH08524

The Queen of London goes daily to church in the name of God and, in her own imagination, is occupied with the remembrance of God, yet God hath testified and doth testify to her heedlessness, for she is deprived of His recognition and is clinging merely to His name. And likewise are the other empresses of the world.  BH05242

Although a republican form of government profiteth all the peoples of the world, yet the majesty of kingship is one of the signs of God. We do not wish that the countries of the world should remain deprived thereof. If the sagacious combine the two forms into one, great will be their reward in the presence of God.   BH00568

The King of Glory hath entrusted all the earth, both land and sea, to the hands of the kings - they are the manifestations of divine power, each according to his degree. Should they enter beneath the shadow of the Truth, they would be reckoned as of the Truth; otherwise, thy Lord is verily the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.  BH11046

Blessed be the king whose sovereignty hath withheld him not from his Sovereign, and who hath turned unto God with his heart. He, verily, is accounted of those that have attained unto that which God, the Mighty, the All-Wise, hath willed. Erelong will such a one find himself numbered with the monarchs of the realms of the Kingdom.  BH01042

refrain from contending with your neighbor, for your Lord hath committed the world and the cities thereof to the care of the kings of the earth, and made them the emblems of His own power, by virtue of the sovereignty He hath chosen to bestow upon them. He hath refused to reserve for Himself any share whatever of this world's dominion.   BH00846

I see the monarchs of earth, having removed their crowns, reverently, submissively and humbly, with tears flowing, carrying baskets of colorful flowers on their heads, approaching the Shrines of Baha'u'llah and the Bab. Much in the same way that Christ wore the crown of thorns on His head, the kings of earth will carry flowers to the Shrines.  ABU1913

O King! Be thou a guide to every seeker in the divine dominion, that thou mayest become a sovereign in the kingdom of mystic knowledge and a monarch in the realm of certitude. Through thy kingly qualities, become a ruler in the world of the spirit, and through thy royal attributes, become an intermediary for the diffusion of the revelation of the All-Merciful.  AB12653

In reality it is not just that vast countries should be governed from a single center, for no matter how great the ability and wisdom of the statesmen of that center, or how developed their sense of justice, they will still not be fully informed of the needs of every town and village and cannot exert themselves justly for the betterment of their surrounding dependencies.   ABU1171

O King, if thou seekest royal grandeur and kingly glory, serve at the threshold of God and seek servitude at the Most Great Court. The glory of kings is like the abasement of subjects - but for a moment, and the surging ocean of their grandeur is merely a dewdrop. Their brilliant lamp is a dark and extinct morning, and their exalted star sets in the depths of a small grave.  AB04073

Among constitutional laws in the Sacred Tablets, the English law is given precedence, but now greater consideration must be given to royal authority as current conditions require. Therefore, in some clauses where national power is strongly emphasized, some moderation is needed, and royal authority must be highly respected. Further adjustments will be possible in the future.  AB07452

The well-known Persian students of the past were unable to bring about any advancements in their native land, but God grant that you all, on the other hand, will be able to render some service to Persia - that you will study such disciplines as will redound to the rehabilitation of that country, such that you will, upon your return there, become the very means of its revival  ABU3712

Kings are the manifestations of the power, and the daysprings of the might and riches, of God. Pray ye on their behalf. He hath invested them with the rulership of the earth and hath singled out the hearts of men as His Own domain. It is incumbent upon everyone to aid those daysprings of authority and sources of command who are adorned with the ornament of equity and justice.  BH00003

And if thou shouldst meet with the Ambassador, say to him that this Cause, in Europe and America, hath revived the mention of the kings of Asia and spread their fame, and hath made clear that they are deserving of obedience, consideration, respect and honor, according to explicit texts from Baha'u'llah. We pray for their victory, confirmation, exaltation, success and endurance  AB07020

We beseech God to aid His Majesty the sovereign in protecting His flock and safeguarding them from the wolves of the earth. A just sovereign possesseth a great station in the sight of God and occupieth an exalted rank. By the life of God! The most excellent garment for the temple of sovereignty is the garment of justice. It is the supreme adornment and the most resplendent robe.   BH00575

Praise be to God, His Imperial Majesty the Shah is just, perfect and kind, and a monarch of such kindness, pure intention and benevolence is rare to find. Therefore the friends of God must show appreciation and not, like other groups, display ingratitude for this blessing. Night and day they must engage in prayers for good, and with heart and soul seek divine confirmation and assistance.  AB04515

The truth is as thou hast written. We hope that through the divine bounty and loving-kindness, this just King and generous Sovereign succeeds in all his endeavors which will result in tranquility and well-being for his nation, so that the tabernacle of the ancient glory of Persia is raised in the midmost heart of the world and the reign of his majesty the King achieves its former rank and dignity.  AB01640

Consider how powerful, triumphant, at peace and secure the constitutional government of England is. His Majesty the Emperor is in the utmost glory and confidence, and the people are in the utmost freedom and joy, with government and people in continuous progress. What could be better than this, that all serve the monarch while he lives in the utmost comfort, ease, joy, delight, and abundant glory.  AB01216

Therefore His Imperial Majesty the Shah of Iran, may his power endure, undertook to protect and support the oppressed ones, and to the extent possible, preserved and safeguarded them from the hands of the oppressors and accusers. May God strengthen his power, increase his success, and cause him to attain the highest degree of prosperity and triumph, through the intercession of the Concourse on High.   AB00084

In the future, on foot and holding bouquets of flowers above their heads and carrying wreaths, the monarchs of the earth will come on pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrines. "And will raise to the Supreme Concourse the voice of their fervent supplications and will lift to the Abha Kingdom the tone of their prayers that, 'They endured banishment, imprisonment and martyrdom for the comfort of the friends!'"   ABU1489

As the government gains strength, God willing, these parties shall face the severest upheaval. Therefore, we pray that God may grant strength and victory to the government. Soon you will observe that the government will gain strength, and when it acquires power to maintain order, these problems will be solved. Rest assured that if the government finds relief from the Bolsheviks, it will gain strength  AB09515

In truth, considering the opposition of the clergy and the hardness that has seized those souls, His Majesty the Sultan has conducted himself very well. In any case, the government shows consideration for the people of the nation, as undertaking anything that would cause general public disturbance has never been and is not acceptable to the government, for it must preserve its throne and sovereignty.   BH00678

In one of the Tablets it was revealed that among the signs of the world's maturity is that no one will accept to bear alone the weight of kingship. Sovereignty will remain, but none will be willing to bear alone its burden. Those will be the days when wisdom will be manifest among mankind, save for him who may take on this mighty weight for the sake of propagating God's Cause and spreading His Faith.   BH01403

Although praise be to God, even now His Imperial Majesty is like a radiant moon in the eastern horizon - nay rather, a brilliant sun - yet it is hoped that in this cycle of the All-Merciful and divine age, the Lord of the worlds will place such a crown of bounty upon the heads of Iran's monarchs that its brilliant jewel will shine and radiate forever in the east of prosperity and the zenith of eternal heaven.   AB12158

At such a time precisely I wrote to him not to be sorry or grieved, for GOD would help him. Therefore GOD assisted him and he overcame all. All the kings of the world were at first despotic, but later they have become either constitutional or republican. Even some of the kings, by their own will, granted a constitution; such as the Mikado of Japan, who willingly granted one, and two years ago the Ameen of Montenegro, in Turkish Europe, also granted one.   ABU0841

The sovereignty of Napoleon ceased as soon as he died but the Kingdom of Christ is eternal. The former established his mortal kingdom with bloodshed and the sword while Christ established the Kingdom of God with the life-giving breaths of the Holy Spirit. Napoleon established his kingdom through the power of oppression while Christ established His through the power of the love of God. A hundred thousand Napoleons may be effaced but the Kingdom of Christ will remain forever.   ABU1487

O Lord! Keep this fortunate monarch safe in the shelter of Thy protection, and keep this justice-spreading sovereign under the gaze of Thy favor. Aid him with Thy heavenly hosts and assist him with Thy celestial armies. Increase his might and make his sovereignty firm and established. Preserve this crown and throne from the evil of traitors to the state, and protect it from the corruption of rebels and insurgents. Add to his might day by day, and gladden the eyes of his well-wishers.  AB00111

The Shah of Persia came twice to Stuttgart. Although he was a royal King he did not find one real heartfelt friend. The utmost was the government received him officially according to its long-established custom just as it would have received any other royal Personage. The holy divine Manifestations of God through whom this mighty and potent power appears are the very quintessences of existence and the plain people who follow their Teachings are greater than the Kings and queens of the earth.   ABU1824

The Emperors and Kings of Europe are so situated today that either by inclination or rivalry; political considerations or patriotic motives, geographical locations or fear of foreign invasion - cannot take an initiative in the Cause of Universal Peace and the reduction of armaments. So long as this mad competition exists amongst them they think they must go on increasing their Military and Naval budgets and pile destructive armaments upon armaments until millions of souls are crushed under its sheer weight.  ABU0265

The Lord of all worlds hath entrusted the order of countries and the security of paths to the effort of government and the power of sovereignty, and hath made the comfort of the subjects and the prosperity of the people dependent upon the influence and might of the kings of the world. Should there occur any weakening in this mighty force which preserves the life, happiness, comfort and peace of creation, the felicity of human life would be disturbed, and the base, vile, rejected and riffraff would become dominant and prevailing.  AB00293

Praise be to God, His Imperial Majesty the Shah, preserved and protected, hath returned to the seat of sovereignty, and during this journey conducted himself in every land in such manner as caused the joy and delight of these wanderers, for he moved with utmost dignity, composure, kindness and nobility. The friends of God, in gratitude for this kingly virtue, must show the utmost effort in obedience, submission, well-wishing and service to the royal throne, and be occupied day and night with prayers for His Imperial Majesty the Shah.  AB07341

Thus Mikado, the Emperor of Japan, as well as the Governor of Montenegro, having realized the benefits of a constitutional government, consented, of their own accord, with none's insistence or force, to convert their absolute reign into a constitutional government. Consider how his royal highness, the King of England, spendeth his days, in the plenitude of happiness, of tranquility, of peace and prosperity, and is the most exalted Monarch among the kings of the world. Neither is he responsible for a matter, nor doth he take any blame.  AB11815

The majesty of kingship is the means of glory for the nation, and the influence of the government will ensure protection of the populace; however it should go hand in hand with Justice. His majesty the King is, praised be God, an accomplished person, he is the embodiment of justice and reason, and distinguished for his forbearance. Therefore all must rise with magnanimity and strive for that which is conducive to the establishment of a powerful government, a mighty monarchy, a potent order, a flourishing country and a progressive nation.  AB00412

If thou art confirmed as thou oughtest to be, thou wilt certainly establish an eternal Kingdom. This Kingdom is greater than that of Mikado, for the sovereignty of the Emperor of Japan is for numbered days, but this sovereignty is lasting and will stand unto the Eternity of Eternities. That sovereignty can be hidden under one handful of dust, that is when Mikado goes beneath the handful of dust, he is entirely effaced and erased, but this Kingdom withstands the greatest revolution of the worlds, and will stand with perfect stability unto eternity.  AB02417

Agreeably to this view a letter was issued addressed to the Bab in his Majesty's own writing, and, according to the traditional account of the tenor of this letter, the epitome thereof is this: (After the titles). Since the royal train is on the verge of departure from Tihran, to meet in a befitting manner is impossible. Do you go to Maku and there abide and rest for a while, engaged in praying for our victorious state; and we have arranged that under all circumstances they shall show you attention and respect. When we return from travel we will summon you specially.  AB00003

A great war and commotion shall inevitably take place in the world. Things will come to such a pass that the generality of mankind will rise against the statesmen of the world and say, 'You sit in your palaces in perfect comfort; you eat and drink sumptuously; you sleep blissfully; you eat delicious food and relax in gardens with beautiful views. But for the sake of your name and worldly fame, you throw us, your subjects, into war, shed our blood and tear our bodies to pieces. But no thorn ever pricks your hands and not for a moment do you leave your rest and comfort.'  ABU1830

We hope that he may be confirmed and assisted in service to the world of humanity and become the cause of unity and accord between the government and nation, so that these two mighty pillars may blend together like milk and honey. He should possess lofty ambition and noble purpose, not sullying himself with trivial aims and ordinary matters like others, but rather lay an eternal foundation and render service to the Divine Court, that he may find his way to the exalted pavilion of the All-Merciful, bestow life upon the world of humanity, and shine forth from the horizon of eternal glory.  AB02974

We beseech God to assist and confirm His Majesty the Shah and grant him the knowledge to perceive, for should he become aware, he would hold fast to that which would ensure the perpetuity of his sovereignty and the reformation and advancement of his realm.  BH01085

O kings of the earth! We see you increasing every year your expenditures, and laying the burden thereof on your subjects. This, verily, is wholly and grossly unjust. Fear the sighs and tears of this Wronged One, and lay not excessive burdens on your peoples. Do not rob them to rear palaces for yourselves; nay rather choose for them that which ye choose for yourselves. Thus We unfold to your eyes that which profiteth you, if ye but perceive. Your people are your treasures. Beware lest your rule violate the commandments of God, and ye deliver your wards to the hands of the robber. By them ye rule, by their means ye subsist, by their aid ye conquer. Yet, how disdainfully ye look upon them! How strange, how very strange!   BH00662

Today by the grace of God and the spiritual influence of His universal Manifestation, the fair-minded ruler of Iran has gathered his people into the shelter of justice, and the sincerity of the imperial purpose has shown itself in kingly acts. Hoping that his reign will rival the glorious past, he has sought to establish equity and righteousness and to foster education and the processes of civilization throughout this noble land, and to translate from potentiality into actuality whatever will insure its progress. Not until now had we seen a monarch, holding in his capable hands the reins of affairs, and on whose high resolve the welfare of all his subjects depends, exerting as it would befit him, like a benevolent father, his efforts toward the training and cultivation of his people, seeking to insure their well-being and peace of mind, and exhibiting due concern for their interests.  AB00004
