The people have been deluded by their wealth and it hath prevented them from My Straight Path.   BH07211

Even this earth's happiness does not depend upon wealth. You will find many of the wealthy exposed to dangers and troubled by difficulties, and in their last moments upon the bed of death there remains the regret that they must be separated from that to which their hearts are so attached.  ABU0882

Extreme wealth or utter poverty should be equal to them.  ABU1284

This is what Christ states in the Gospels. 'It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle that for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God.' This testimony of Christ of the exaltation of the poor ones in the sight of God is sufficient.   ABU0656

if a man educated the children of the poor, who could not themselves afford to do so, it was, in the sight of God, as if he had educated the Son of God.   ABU2205


a person is known by his courteous behavior, not by his wealth.  BH11393

"I created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself down to poverty?"   ABU1667

Do they imagine that what they possess will profit them? Nay, by the Lord of all worlds! Did what their fathers amassed benefit them?   BH03396

Beware lest wealth hold thee back from the final destination, or possessions occupy thee from God, the Self-Sufficient, the Most High.   BH01658

The objective point of a soul is the acquirement of wealth. He concentrates all his ambition around the actualization of this cherished hope.   ABU1102

The time will come in the near future when humanity will become so much more sensitive than at present that the man of great wealth will not enjoy his luxury, in comparison with the deplorable poverty about him.  ABU3245

Though you may be poor here, you are rich in the treasures of the Kingdom.   ABU3174

Were it not for poverty, the light of detachment would not shine forth in creation.   BH11567

Poverty is the lack of riches. GOD did not create man poor. Poverty is only the lack of riches.  ABU2521

Be not grieved on account of poverty for true wealth is surging and inundating like unto the ocean.   ABU3614

The Bedouin Arabs, who had often not enough to eat, were yet entirely happy and satisfied with what they had   ABU1287

"Fortune makes some people forget God, its absence turns their faces toward Him."  ABU1335

In this divine age some of the wealthy ones have, praise be to God, been successful, but some have been deprived.   BH01889

Rich is he who graspeth it, and poor is he who is deprived of it, though he possess all the treasures of the earth.   BH10456

Today neither loftiness nor lowliness, poverty nor wealth, lineage nor descent, weakness nor strength can be observed.   BH04140

Poverty is the absence of wealth. Just as when there is no wealth, there is poverty - not that poverty has any existence.   ABU2849

Likewise with the wealthy and noble who through weakness and old age or other cause have fallen into poverty and abasement.  BH01525

Think ye the people will not scoff because those with houses and lands and jewels associate with those hungry and in rags?   ABU1192

Verily, that poverty is the glory of the beginning and the ending. It is a light which hath illumined the heavens and the earth.  AB11307

a single coin earned thereby is, in the sight of God, more beloved than the treasure that is gathered unrightfully and made ready.  BH10890

Then why does one rob him of these two important fruits, by making work into drudgery, a load for those low on the economic ladder?  ABU3440

Unless the souls are believers in God and assured in the verses of God, wealth causes the hearts to be hardened and without light.   ABU0492

the rich of the earth are destitute in the presence of the friends, for the friends possess a spiritual treasure and limitless glory  AB11344

When one is contented he does not care either for riches or poverty. He lives above the influence of them and is indifferent to them.   ABU2408

The poor are nearer the kingdom of heaven than the rich. The hope of the rich is in their wealth, but the trust of the poor is in God.  ABU2083

How many a servant hath been prevented by wealth from his ultimate end, and how many a servant hath spent it in this straight and manifest Path!   BH07833

All the tyranny and injustice in the world comes from accumulation. The poor have ever been humble and lowly; their hearts are tender. The rich are not so.  ABU0933

Despite flowing treasures and endless wealth, kings pass their days in regret and sorrow, for contentment is the foundation of comfort, not power and riches  AB05073

The highest form of wealth is your faith in God - whoso hath not attained unto this is indeed the poorest of the poor in the sight of the Lord of all cycles.   BH09752

Spend some of what God hath bestowed upon you through His grace - thereby will that which ye possess increase. The Mother Book with Him doth testify to this.   BH04290

riches earned by personal effort with divine assistance, in various trades, agriculture and the arts, and rightly administered, are justly deserving of praise  ABU3427

Whatsoever is witnessed in the world of wealth, riches, treasures and the like belong to God. There is no shame in their absence, nor pride in their presence.   BH01584

For the source of all miseries and evils is the avoidable poverty. The rulers must be prompted with mercy and solicitate for the conditions of the unfortunates.   ABU2685

After he attained his goal and became wealthy, he forgot all... Before long he lost all his wealth and repented on His threshold... At the end, he died in poverty.  ABU1612

"Know thou with certain knowledge that wealth, riches, exaltation and sublimity have ever been and shall ever be in the grasp of God's power. He giveth and He withholdeth"  BH02237

Verily, We love every patient poor one, every generous rich one, every humble elder, and every modest ruler. By My life! I love the poor and am with them and hear their cry.  BH05511

although the blessed purse is empty, there should be a treasure in the sleeve - that you should distribute heavenly wealth so that hearts become enriched with divine riches   AB04295

Do not imagine that they will derive any benefit from these properties or gain any advantage. Rather, in the end these possessions will become a burden and this wealth a curse.  AB04426

They who are today turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon and have attained the recognition of the Lord of Names are accounted before God as the most wealthy among His servants.  BH09039

Verily those who disbelieve in God's Most Great Remembrance, neither their wealth nor their children shall avail them aught besides God, the Truth, and they have no power besides God.  BB00002

Every treasure hath been and is the cause of infinite grief and sorrow and regret. Never hath any perishable thing been the cause of independence, nor shall it ever be.   BH11249

Was it not evident to thee that this servant withholdeth not bread from anyone, nor hath He ever reproached any soul concerning bread, nor denied the riches of this world to any person?  BH01870

Yet all lived in utmost hardship and difficulty, and most in extreme poverty and need...whoever travels the divine path, the wealthy become poor, not the poor wealthy - it works in reverse  AB00896

If the friends of God receive no share or portion of the worthless things of this world, praise be to God, the treasure of the Kingdom floweth freely. This is true wealth and eternal riches.  AB09918

For instance, if all were rich, there would be no opportunity for the appearance of generosity; and on the other hand, if all were poor the blessing of riches would not be known or appreciated.   ABU1333

Thus it is clear and evident that human happiness lies not in riches and means of livelihood, wealth and affluence, but rather in freedom of spirit, nobility, and the perfections of human reality.  AB05772

What a pity that someone like you should become so distraught and distressed from want. We had hoped that someone like you, if afflicted with grinding poverty, would increase in joy and thanksgiving  AB02894

Glorified be He Who hath adorned poverty with the ornament of pride through His words: "Poverty is My glory." Thus did the Tongue of Revelation speak aforetime, as every discerning soul doth testify.   BH01584

Another merchant who displayed the opposite quality and prepared every means of comfort and enjoyment for the members of his family heard about the stinginess of his neighbor and upbraided him severly.  ABU1676

Praise be to God that you have found your way to the treasures of the Kingdom, and this treasure will never end as it is an everlasting wealth. There is no loss or damage in it; day by day it increases.  AB07463

Then inform the wealthy not to be heedless of Our poor servants, for they are God's trust among you. Say: Beware lest ye be unfaithful concerning them. Preserve them from the harm of poverty and desperation.  BH01645

Though we have hardship and difficulty in the material world, we have rest and comfort in the divine realm...All the wealth you see in people's hands on earth is but a drop of the wealth of the earthly realm.  AB00334

And [the animals'] greater comfort stems from the fact that a bird is content with a few grains it eats, never thinking about supper, while man is not content even if he possessed all the wealth in the world.   ABU0663

True sovereignty must be a treasury of the soul and an infinite storehouse. That sovereignty which is the love of God hath its source in the everlasting world, and its mine is in the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.  AB10364

Thoughts of wealth and riches, as well as hopes of rank and glory, are sheer illusion. God has cast these thoughts into our minds only so that this world might prosper; apart from this, they are of no importance.  ABU3750

"True wealth is the wealth of the Kingdom of God. The heart of man must be rich. Often it has happened that a person is poor but is wealthy; on the other hand a soul may possess one hundred million but he is poor."  ABU1700

This refers to material wealth, but as for true wealth, its gate is open and its treasure manifest and uncovered. Yet those of base nature, being blind, turn away from these heavenly riches and pursue earthly wealth.  AB12612

Though travelling in those parts in hunger and in thirst, unclothed and poor, thou art nevertheless the embodiment of wealth and the quintessence of everlasting life because thy intention is to teach the Cause of God.  AB03647

If the heart is not bound and attached to the world, if it is unaffected by the vicissitudes of life, unhampered by worldly wealth from serving humanity and not dejected because of poverty, then this is a human perfection.  ABU2450

Enricher of the poor, Provider for the weak...provide for us from whence we know not, and enrich us through Your riches...and open for us the treasures of mercy in hearts, of divine gifts in spirits, and of wealth in bodies  AB07162

The rich must aid the poor. There was a person in America who was worth about three hundred million liras. Nevertheless, he was unwilling to spend even one lira on the poor; and all his life, he had not experienced comfort.  ABU3646

His holiness Muhammad, the Messenger of God, called his blessed self a pauper and declared "poverty is my glory." This poverty is not the lack of worldly goods and is not need for the worthless treasures of this mortal world.   AB06840

Grieve not because of poverty, for verily thou art rich, by thy Lord, the Lord of all worlds. He who hath recognized this Cause is among the most wealthy of creation and the most honored of servants before God, the Mighty, the Great.  BH06441

The patient poor are better than the thankful rich. But the thankful poor are better than the patient poor. And the best of all is the rich-giver who is free from temptations or tests, who becomes the cause of the happiness of mankind.  ABU2240

"Every treasury, in this world, is subject to exhaustion, save the treasury of the Kingdom which is inexhaustible. I hope that thou mayst become rich through the treasury of the Kingdom. His Holiness Christ and all the prophets were poor."  ABU1700

Contentment and ease are better than wealth and trouble.  AB07748

Be not troubled in poverty nor confident in riches, for poverty is followed by riches, and riches are followed by poverty. Yet to be poor in all save God is a wondrous gift, belittle not the value thereof, for in the end it will make thee rich in God.  BH00113

Kings never derive as much pleasure from their tables and delicious foods as the poor derive from plain bread. Why? Because due to their abundance of blessings, the bodies of kings do not have much desire, while the body of the poor person has the utmost desire.  ABU1752

The riches of gold and silver become the cause of increasing need and engagement, as thou observest that the greatest of the world's wealthy ones are the crowned heads, yet despite this they are in the most extreme state of need, indebted, disadvantaged and afflicted.  AB09436

Neither poverty nor wealth are, in reality, praiseworthy or blameworthy until the results of each are seen in each person. Often poverty becomes the cause of true wealth and vice versa, and often wealth becomes the cause of attaining God's good-pleasure and vice versa   AB02698

In the Hidden Words We said: "O Son of Being! Busy not thyself with this world, for with fire We test the gold, and with gold We test Our servants." On the day of reckoning they were occupied with riches and remained heedless and veiled from the wealthy and self-subsisting Lord.   BH03806

I was walking through the poor quarter of the city. I saw an old poor Arab standing in front of store. He had neither hat nor shoes and wore only a long tattered coat over his naked body. He had no shirt on himself. Between his coat and his skin he had a loaf of coarse black bread.   ABU1518

"Material favors sometimes deprive us of spiritual favors and material rest of spiritual rest...Riches did not prove an obstacle for them and they are like unto stars in the heaven of both worlds - flames of reality...There are many rich people who are severed and many poor who are not."  ABU0725

as to accumulate is the manner of worldly people not permissible to 'Abdu'l-Baha, for the Christ has said O God! Give us our daily bread therefore, with utmost thankfulness and happiness, I am returning these $1000, so that you may spread it yourself in my name, in good works for humanity.  AB08641

Glory be to God! The wealthy among the friends show no initiative and render no service because of their attachment to worldly wealth. But by chance after their death their wealth falls into the hands of their enemies who consume it and, as common people say, recite the prayer for the dead.  AB00732

However, if someone is helpless or falls into severe poverty and can find no remedy, the wealthy or the deputies must designate a sum for him each month so that he can get by. When the House of Justice is established, homes for the incapacitated will be founded, thus no one will need to beg.   AB00632

if a person willingly shows mercy to the poor and joyfully gives of their wealth, such a person is near to the divine threshold - just as many of the loved ones of God have, with utmost joy and delight, spent their wealth on the poor and practiced complete sharing, but of their own free will.  AB00582

However, the wealthy must be mindful of the poor, for the station of the patient among the poor is great in the sight of God. By My life! No station equals it save what God willeth. Blessed is the poor one who is patient and discrete, and blessed is the rich one who spends and prefers others.   BH00718

However, the wealthy must be mindful of the poor, for the station of the patient among the poor is great in the sight of God. By My life! No station can equal it save what God willeth. Blessed is the poor one who is patient and concealing, and blessed is the rich one who giveth and preferreth others.   BH00445

It is indeed good to possess riches if they be expended in the path of GOD for the beloved of GOD; if they be expended to help the orphaned, the poor, the crippled, or spent in a general way for the welfare of the community (or mankind); for the cause of science or industry, or as a help to discoveries.  ABU0514

In this glorious Dispensation the treasures laid up by kings and queens are not worthy of mention, nor will they be acceptable in the Presence of God. However, a grain of mustard offered by His loved ones will be extolled in the exalted court of His holiness and invested with the ornament of His acceptance.   BH08235

although the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His dust, opened the doors of the treasuries of existence to the faces of His servants and immersed this helpless one in the sea of wealth, yet temporarily, outwardly, due to wisdom He ordained complete hardship - treasure in the sleeve but empty purse  AB00865

But those souls who have drunk from the brimming cup of "God will render everyone independent out of His abundance" - though outwardly poor and possessing not a penny - yet have a flowing treasure in their sleeve, the kingdom of the placeless beneath their signet ring, and the treasures of the Kingdom concealed within.  AB09436

Wealth and prosperity do not consist in worldly goods but rather in generosity and excellence of soul. In other words, he who finds the true layers of gold and discovers the Supreme Treasure of the Blessed Beauty in the divine mines is indeed the one who will be rich in both worlds and prosperous in the highest heaven.  AB09221

In spite of poverty he acquires a sense of affluence and in a state of riches and power he offers help and protection to the weak... How many are the people who have all means of comfort, luxury, security and wealth and every means of enjoyment and good living, yet they have no peace of mind and are ever anxious and uneasy!   ABU1453

Dirhams and dinars are not the measure of true wealth; its measure, rather, is the love of Him Who is the Beauteous, the Unconstrained. How many are they who, though rich in dinars, are yet the poorest of God's creatures; for, even as is witnessed, each day their greed for gain increaseth, and their avarice waxeth more intense.   BH04175

As to comfort and wealth, the Supreme Lord hath not, as a pure bounty, provided for us the means of comfort and riches, so that the sincerity of hearts and the detachment of souls might become evident and manifest. For if we had comfort and ease, they would suppose that we had hastened to the Divine shelter merely to attain these.  AB09309

Wealth becomes the cause of heedlessness to many souls with the exception of those who are believers in God and read the verses of God. But blessed is the rich man whose wealth and opulence do not prevent him from turning his face toward God and whose heart is not attached to his possessions. Such a rich man is the light of the world.  ABU0700

Although the Realm of Glory hath none of the vanities of the world, yet within the treasury of trust and resignation We have bequeathed to Our heirs an excellent and priceless heritage. Earthly treasures We have not bequeathed, nor have We added such cares as they entail. By God! In earthly riches fear is hidden and peril is concealed.  ABU3673

O servant of Baha! Wealth and prosperity do not consist in worldly goods but rather in generosity and excellence of soul. In other words, he who finds the true layers of gold and discovers the Supreme Treasure of the Blessed Beauty in the divine mines is indeed the one who will be rich in both worlds and prosperous in the highest heaven.  AB09221

In every world there is a treasure that is accepted, and in every market a merchandise that is desired. In the divine world, gold and silver are baser than dust, and precious jewels have fallen from the rank of worth. The gold and silver of that realm is the cash of the love of God, and its glittering gems are the pearls of inner meanings.  AB06924

But in comparison with service to the Cause, both attitudes are barren, producing no result. For example, if the effort these people put into gathering these objects, and the millions of dollars spent acquiring them, were employed for the Cause of God, their stars of happiness and prosperity would shine evermore from the horizon of both worlds.  ABU2216

Even in New York, the famous Carnegie, who is the wealthiest person there, repeatedly requested that I come to his home. I did not accept. The Consul General of Iran mediated several times. I said if he were a poor person, I would have gone to his home, but since he is the foremost among the wealthy and is famous, therefore it is not advisable.  ABU2214

Praise be to God, not one of the friends in this land has yet eaten barley bread; through divine bounty, blessing and favor they pass their days in utmost ease and contentment. The recession is throughout Iran. The One God is witness that what merchants and others have written in their letters would sadden every friend and grieve every loved one.   BH01121

Those who hoard gold and silver and spend it not in the path of God, God will surely punish them for what they have hoarded - and who is more truthful in speech than God? This is the inner meaning, but outwardly the property of others is forbidden unto you. Beware lest ye deal treacherously with any soul or dispose of their property without their leave.   BH02398

The rich show no mercy to the poor, and they themselves are tormented. If they showed mercy, both they and the poor would be at ease. Wealth is good for such times - otherwise what good is it? One should save and preserve it, and if successful in such an endeavor, one's heart is gladdened that, praise be to God, one has succeeded in rendering some service to the poor.  ABU0880

The near ones to the threshold of the Almighty have ever, in this earthly realm, been sanctified and detached from wealth and riches. Yet they discovered the treasures of the Kingdom, acquired the wealth of the Realm of Might, and attained the bounty of riches from the world of the Divine Realm, becoming manifestations of the day wherein God will render everyone independent through His abundance.  AB10843

Most of those present at that feast today are the poor. This is why Christ said "Blessed are the poor." For the rich, wealth is a barrier to entering the Kingdom, as Christ said it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the Kingdom of God. However, if wealth and earthly riches and material glory do not prevent a rich person from entering the Kingdom, that rich one is near to the divine threshold and accepted by the Lord of the Kingdom.  AB00409

Though you have newly beaten the drum of bankruptcy, we have long been sounding its trumpet and beating its drum. You have become harmonious with us and entered upon the path of the righteous ones. However, the condition is this: that you do not sully yourself again and do not immerse yourself once more in the sea of commerce whose end is disgrace and loss. Rather, seek detachment and pursue severance, and think of the greatest profit and most glorious gain and trade in the market of His Holiness the King of Oneness.  AB01913

I swear by the Sun of Truth that rises from the horizon of the prison, there was a time when the Ancient Beauty Himself had no spare garment to wear. He would wash the one He had, dry it, and put it on again. Keep this matter confidential. The purpose is that you should know how circumstances were in the past and not be saddened by the hardships that have befallen you. In the eyes of people, poverty and wealth are causes of elevation and abasement, but in the sight of God, rank and station depend on acceptance, steadfastness and certitude.  BH09559

The riches of gold and silver become the cause of increasing need and engagement, as thou observest that the greatest of the world's wealthy ones are the crowned heads, yet despite this they are in the most extreme state of need, and are indebted, at a loss, and afflicted. But those souls who have drunk from the brimming cup of "God will render each of them rich through His abundance," though outwardly poor and possessing not a penny, yet they have a flowing treasure in their sleeve, and the kingdom of the placeless beneath their signet ring, and the treasures of the Kingdom concealed within.  AB09436

Wealth is similar unto the sand-hills in the deserts. It is a mathematical impossibility to keep them firmly established in one locality. Today you see the sandy hills gathered here; at midnight there may rise a furious windstorm and lo! tomorrow all the hills are transplanted miles and miles away. The hills of wealth are likewise subject to such sudden and instantaneous transferences, leaving one in complete wreck and showering her gifts for the time being on a new favorite son. Wealth is capricious, wayward, fickle and whimsical and loves to disport with her long train of suitors cold-bloodedly.   ABU0330

And regarding the question of wealth and riches - what is meant is true wealth and heavenly riches, and this is an eternal bounty that will become complete and all-encompassing on the day when "God will enrich all through His abundance." This is specific to the loved ones of God. As for worldly wealth, all peoples share in it, meaning that in other communities too there exist those who are materially wealthy. Nevertheless, if someone wealthy is grateful and generous, they are certainly accepted and beloved, as mentioned in the divine Tablets: "When we find, we prefer others, and when we lose, we are grateful."   AB02261

As for your mention that the friends have no affliction save the destitution and poverty that encompass them all, this evanescent servant submitteth that at one time the Seal of the Prophets, may the spirit of all in the Kingdom be a sacrifice for His sake - that Holy Being Himself together with His companions were in utmost poverty, to such degree that some had no sustenance for the night. Later came a time when one of His companions had more than two hundred horses in his stable, and upon some of them bounties rained down from all directions like rain, and they spent all in the path of the Friend, paying no heed to its accumulation.   BH00231

There are two kinds of possessions: One comprises the pearls of divine love, praiseworthy character, and pleasing attributes, which have always been and will remain preserved, for the hand of the thief and traitor falls short in this station. In previous years, there was a sum in the keeping of a trustee, and a thief stole it. We wrote: We beseech God to assist you in acquiring that which thieves and traitors cannot lay hands upon. The other kind of possessions thieves may plunder if they gain access to them, but whatever belongs to the people of truth will surely be compensated and bestowed upon them ere long.  BH01476

Before my departure for America the poor of all nationalities came to me, Persians and Turks, Arabs and Syrians, Greeks and Europeans etc. belonging to all religions and faiths. I helped gladly every one without any distinction of race or color; but this year I cannot do to the same extent, because our American and European expenses totalled a great sum, beyond our endurance; even now I am under a heavy debt. However you see that although these difficulties exist I do not send away one man without satisfying in some way his immediate want. The worst condition of life is, when one is in urgent need of the means of livelihood. It is indeed very sad if a person begs assistance and one is unable to relieve him from the burden or contribute something toward his relief.   ABU1981

The poor are ever near to the Threshold of God. The humanitarianism of the poor has ever been more acceptable at the Threshold of God.  ABU0933

How many souls whose wealth, glory and riches did not prevent them from the Lord of Names - they were set ablaze with the fire of divine love and bore in His path that which the eye of the world had never seen.   BH02700

I am truly happy when among the gatherings of the poor. It brings full joy to my heart. I come in contact with those in high stations of life, and those rich in worldly possessions, but my joy is in being with those who are in material poverty, for their sufferings draw them nearer to God in spiritual gain.   ABU3040
