and strive utmost in acquiring sciences and arts   AB02124

They must always read the holy books, so that they may be familiar with their contents.  ABU0791

Study, listen to exhortations, think, try to understand the wisdom and greatness of God.  AB11557

all thy studies will be crowned with success; otherwise they will bring thee no eternal results   ABU2980

It is the religious duty of every Baha'i to read and comprehend the meanings of the old and new Testaments.  ABU3243

O Hermoz! We hope that in the divine school you will be engaged, like Hermes, in learning the meanings of realities.  AB11513

Immerse thyself in the ocean of the explanation of the Beauty of the Merciful, so that thou mayest gather the pearls.  AB11282

Read the Tablets of Baha'u'llah. Study the hidden words. Then thou wilt become spiritual, illumined, godlike, divine.   ABU1787

Finish thy studies in sciences and then turn thy face unto God, asking from Him help and protection under all conditions.  AB04940

You must become fully informed with these Teachings. It is good to be thoroughly informed with science or arts or literature.   ABU2741

You should remind all the loved ones of the divine counsels that have been revealed in the Sacred Books in this Most Great Revelation   BH09972

I counsel you that you study earnestly the teachings of Baha'u'llah, so that, God helping you, you may in deed and truth become Baha'is.   ABU1814

Take thou the Book with a strength from Us, then read it unto those multitudes whom the affairs of the world have not kept back from the Ancient of Days   BH06233

Blessed is he who readeth the verses of God and pondereth upon the pearls of his Lord's knowledge that lie concealed therein, the Mighty, the All-Knowing.  BH04482

This will cause the friends to gain proficiency in the teachings, glad-tidings and answering doubts, and to progress in degrees of knowledge and understanding   AB03380

We must endeavor to gain heavenly enlightenment, to understand the mysteries of the holy books, to become the cause of guidance to others and to illumine hearts.  ABU2465

They must either teach or open their tongue in propounding arguments, either commune or supplicate and pray to God, either read Tablets or give out advices and exhortations.  AB09121

You are to explain to them or read to them the Ishrakat, Tarazat, Tajalleyat, the Words of Paradise, and Tablet of the World. You have to make them learn by heart some of these verses.   ABU2419

You wrote that Mr. Dreyfus will translate the Kitab-i-Aqdas in the gathering of Amatu'l-Baha Barney, and Dr. Chevalier will give lessons on the Kitab-i-Iqan. This is most acceptable and beloved.  AB08811

Then read what hath been sent down from the heaven of grace and ponder upon it, that God may open unto thy heart a door of knowledge and make thee independent thereby of all that hath been and shall be.  BH11290

Sacred Books have been sent down from the heaven of God's Will - request them from the loved ones and study them, that ye may become aware of the greatness of this Cause and arise to exalt the Word of God   BH04036

Observe what is in the Sacred Tablets, and likewise what has flowed from the Pen of the Covenant, and also turn to the Abha Kingdom so that through the breathings of the Holy Spirit these questions may be solved.  AB11476

Therefore, O luminous newcomers, strive night and day to fathom the truths and meanings, comprehend the mysteries of the Day of Manifestation, and discover the proofs and evidences for the dawning of the Most Great Name.   AB01840

when someone reads Tablets they must be silent and attentive. Should anyone desire to speak, he must do it with the utmost courtesy and with perfect eloquence and fluency by the consent and permission of the people of the assembly.  AB07821

When you, who are the believers of God gather together in a meeting, let all your conversation be about the Cause, review the proofs that uphold it, bring forth the evidence that reinforces it and investigate the arguments that demonstrate it.  ABU0638

His honor Mirza Ali-Muhammad returned with a firm covenant and strong testament and faith and pledge that he would in no way deviate from your good pleasure, and would be occupied day and night with learning the lesson of teaching and studying the French language.  AB11630

Thou shouldst gather, as much as possible, the Persian Tablets that have been sent down from the heaven of the Divine Will and read them, for in all of them are revealed mighty utterances and sovereign declarations which shall be the cause of the steadfastness of souls.   BH00737

Therefore, in thanksgiving for them ye must act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. Ye must read the Tablets -- the Hidden Words, Ishraqat, Glad Tidings -- all the holy utterances, and act according to them. This is real thanksgiving, to live in accord with these utterances.   ABU0579

When a pupil enters the school first, he will not understand a thing at all, but when he persists in his studies, he will learn his first lessons. Even so it is with the Kingdom of God. When a person enters, when he concentrates his thought and is steadfast, he will learn good lessons, very good lessons indeed.   ABU2795

Up to that period I had not had time to read the Koran from first to last but then I had ample time and used to read this holy book with fervour and enthusiasm. Going over the incidents and events of the lives of former prophets and finding how parallel they were with that of Baha'o'llah, I was consoled and encouraged.  ABU1242

It is my hope that you may put forth your most earnest endeavor to accomplish this end, that you may investigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that you may attain knowledge of the mysteries hidden therein. Be not satisfied with words, but seek to understand the spiritual meanings hidden in the heart of the words.   ABU0523

There are many people in Persia who are illiterate, but who are able to guide wise and learned men. Knowledge and sciences are like water gathered from pools and cisterns for the irrigation of the soil; the confirmations of God are like rainfalls and showers. Why should one gather water from pools when the pure water is obtainable?   ABU2176

In these gatherings where we have met and spoken together you have all become acquainted with the principles of this dispensation, and with the reality of facts. Unto you it has been given to know these things, but there are many still unenlightened and submerged in superstition. They have heard but little of this great and glorious Cause, and the knowledge they have is for the most part based only on hearsay.   ABU1175

Every conversation, when it goes on too long, brings weariness to a person except conversation about the Divine Cause, conversation about the Exalted One [the Bab], about the Blessed Beauty [Baha'u'llah], about the beginning of this Cause, about the details of this Cause, about the proofs of this Cause, about the glad tidings of this Cause, about the events of the martyrs - how much joy these bring to a person.   ABU2443

Thou didst ask as to acquiring knowledge: read thou the Books and Tablets of God, and the articles written to demonstrate the truth of this Faith. Included among them are the Iqan, which hath been translated into English, the works of Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, and those of some others among the believers. In the days to come a great number of holy Tablets and other sacred writings will be translated, and thou shouldst read these as well.  AB00740

The book of Ighan revealed by Baha'u'llah in Bagdad and translated in America is one of the most fundamental Baha'i works. Then the hidden Words, likewise Tajalleyat, Eshragat, Tarazat etc, also the books of Mirza Abul Fazl. All these works will explain to you the full meaning and importance of this revelation. When you return to America you can easily get these books and study them very carefully. Then you will be fully informed with the principles of the Baha'i Cause.   ABU2171
