
For the inability of all is evident, having personally witnessed up to a hundred thousand verses, and despite all people being aware of their limitations, though they make claims, none has been seen to produce such verses. This is not a matter of being able but choosing not to do so, for if it were within their power, it would have already been demonstrated.   BB00662

The entire world cannot equal a single word of the divine utterances.   BH10083

verses are sent down in such wise that all in the realm are powerless to compose their like, yet most of the people know not   BH04383

That which is in the hands of men cannot be compared with the Word of God.   BH05521

We have indeed revealed in the Book that which no books of the past can equal   BH07517

Can any besides God reveal a single verse? Do you not see? If all who are on earth were to gather together to produce the like of this Book from God, they would never be able to do so, and God bears witness to this, as do those possessed of knowledge who are witnesses in God's religion.  BB00085

Should all who dwell in the kingdom of the heavens and of the earth and whatsoever is between them assemble together, they would fail to produce the like of these verses from God. Bring ye forth therefore a verse like unto it, if ye are able.  BB00004

The whole world cannot be compared to a single word from the divine utterances   BH07566

for verily one letter from the words of God cannot be equaled by all the worlds.   BB00584

By God's life! All that the world possesseth cannot equal one word from thy Lord's utterances. To this testifieth His Book Preserved and His Decree Irrevocable.  BH00040


a single letter from Him is more exalted and mightier than the creation of all things   BH09974

He soareth above your minds, for that which ye possess deserveth not the name of mind.   BH03534

We have sent down in every matter that which cannot be equaled by aught revealed in creation   BH05310

This is He, one word of Whose Book cannot be equaled by all that was revealed aforetime.   BH08395

Not one word that hath been sent down before or will be sent down hereafter can equal His Word   BH09420

We have sent down verses in such measure that every learned enumerator hath failed to reckon them.   BH09554

this Book hath been sent down unto thee, whereunto nothing in the heavens and the earth can compare   BH08061

wherefore hath been sent down unto thee this Tablet, with which nothing created on earth can compare  BH05762

The Word of God, even if limited to a single word, cannot be equaled by all the books of the worlds.   BH09995


By God! The treasures of the earth and whatsoever the kings possess of hoards and riches cannot equal it   BH05871

All books are but a letter of this Book, and all scriptures proclaim His Name, the Guardian over all worlds.   BH05049

This is a Tablet that cannot be equaled by the treasures of the world nor matched by the books of all creation.  BH03902

One word from the Divine Word in that Most Great Manifestation is better than all that was revealed in the Bayan   BH11125

this Most Holy, Most Exalted Tablet, with which the entire world cannot compare even with a single letter thereof   BH07542

That which hath been sent down in truth causeth all the books of the world to bow down before it, did ye but know.   BH07305

He hath come to you with verses whereof a single letter cannot be equaled by all who are in the heavens and earth.   BH01426

One Book or Tablet of the Blessed Perfection is more comprehensive than fifty volumes of the world's greatest wisdom.  ABU2877

Can that which was revealed aforetime be compared with His verses? Nay, by God's very Self, if ye would but perceive it.   BH05470

By the life of God! Neither the riches of the world nor whatsoever is with the kings and rulers can equal one word thereof.   BH09653

By the life of God! The pearls in the ocean's shells and all that lies hidden in the mines cannot compare with My utterance.   BH11148

And God has no Book except this wherein the laws of all things have been sent down, and it is indeed a mighty guardian Book.   BB00476

If thou observest with the eye of truth, thou wilt testify that nothing that is witnessed on earth can compare with this Tablet.   BH06121

I swear by the lights of His countenance that whatsoever is witnessed cannot be compared with a single word from the words of God.   BH10698

A single word thereof excelleth all the books of the people, as attested by the Scriptures of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH05925

The books of the world have submitted to My Most Great Book, and the tongues of nations throughout the ages and centuries have testified.  BH02268

Could any other than Him send down letters like these letters? Glory be to Him above what the wrongdoers fabricate concerning His verses.   BB00355

By the life of God! It hath no peer in all creation. To this beareth witness the Tongue of Grandeur from His exalted and glorious station.   BH08481

By the life of God! All the books of the world cannot compare with what hath been sent down - to this testifieth the Mother Book which is with Him.  BH03852

"This is a Revelation which the Books have not comprehended, and which none hath understood save His Self, the One Who dominateth the worlds."   BH03508

If we strive to upbuild this Cause with faith and love in our hearts, it will overpower all the science, philosophy, and metaphysics of this Day.  ABU2095

Know thou that a single letter thereof is more precious than the creation of the heavens and earth - this for him who is possessed of true insight.   BH01113

thou wouldst assuredly find it more precious than the rarest substance, nay more precious than whatsoever hath been created in the heavens and on earth   BH06091

Should all men gather to produce the like of a single verse from the verses of that Book, they would never be able, though they should aid one another.   BB00399

The divine verses are distinguished from all else - all that is mentioned and concealed between the heavens and earth cannot equal a single word thereof.   BH02328

Verily God hath sent it down through His power from His presence, and men are unable to produce its like, even as similitude unto similitude, let alone as a likeness.  BB00002

By God! All who are in the heavens and earth cannot equal a single letter that proceedeth from My Pen, and I am the Bestower, the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of Days.   BH01531

By the life of God! All the deeds of the world and all the morals of the nations cannot equal one word from Him. To this testifieth every fair-minded and clear-sighted one.  BH08388

By the Sun of the horizon of sanctification! If but one word proceedeth from the Supreme Pen concerning a soul, it is more precious than a hundred thousand righteous children.   BH05657

Should all mankind gather together hoping to produce the like of this Book, they shall never be able, nor shall they have the power, even if they were learned ones on earth.   BB00200

All the books of the world cannot compare with that which hath been sent down from His presence. To this beareth witness the Ancient King in His glorious and wondrous station.   BH04492

If mankind were to gather together to produce the like of this Book, they would not be able to do so, even if they were to assist one another, and God suffices as witness and helper.   BB00333

Should all people gather together to produce the like of these verses, they would never be able, even if they were helpers one to another. This is a perfect proof from God's Book for all on earth   BB00357

One word from the exalted utterances that appears from the Dayspring of the pronouncement of the Lord of Names is, in the sight of God - exalted be His glory - superior to all that is observed on earth.  BH03635

By the life of my Beloved and your Beloved and the Beloved of all who are in the heavens and earth - nothing can compare with a single word of the divine utterances that minds have not comprehended and eyes have not seen.   BH00172

O people! By God! Were all who are in the heavens and earth to be filled with books, psalms, scrolls and tablets, they would not equal a single letter of that which proceeds from the mouth of God, if ye be of the fair-minded.   BH00596

By God! A single letter thereof is better for thee than all that hath been created on earth, and none deny this save the wicked and the remote. Say: Verily the Word of God is the most exalted, and it is God's testimony unto all the worlds.  BH11832


one Tablet from the traces of God is better than the kingdom of the first and the last ones...And one letter thereof is sweeter than what hath appeared through the Pen and flowed from the tongue and been uttered behind the holy veils by the glorifying concourse  BH02170

Verily He has sent down that which the world is powerless to produce the like thereof. To this testifies every fair-minded and informed person. That which has shone forth from the horizon of My knowledge is more manifest than the sun and cannot be mistaken by anyone.   BH03290

It is a conclusive proof and clear evidence for all, leaving no escape for anyone except every stubborn denier, concerning whom He says: "They say, 'Confused dreams! Nay, he hath forged it! Nay, he is but a poet! Let him then bring us a sign like the ones that were sent to those of old!'"   AB04354

Those who deny God's Cause are obliged to produce a book like unto My Book. If they do so - and they shall never do so - they were in error; and if they do not - and they shall never do so - yet still deny God's Cause, such is their portion of unbelief, lower than Pharaoh's portion of ignorance   BB00183

All that is treasured in the coffers of kings and rulers cannot be compared with a single word from the divine utterances, for worldly ornaments, adornments and riches are transient and will return to nothingness, while that which floweth from the Most Exalted Pen endureth throughout the dominion of earth and heaven   BH08295

Read the Book We have sent down of nine hundred decisive verses, and traverse the east and west of the earth - if thou seest or hearest from anyone the like of one verse, then turn back from My Cause and seek what thou willest. Otherwise, God's conclusive proof is upon thee, just as the truth hath ever been conclusive through it.   BB00183

No lower thing can comprehend what is above it - just as the stone and tree, no matter how much they progress, cannot comprehend the reality of the animal, and the animal, no matter how much it progresses, cannot comprehend the reality of man. Thus man, no matter how much he progresses, cannot fathom the reality of the Word of God   AB04805

For whenever the Divine Voice is raised all the other voices are hushed. When the rich and highly-gifted spiritual Artist breaks forth into a concourse of soft lays and colorful tones of minstrelsy, them the melodies and scores of the earthly singers will sink lower and lower till at least they are lost in a sea of eternal silence.   ABU2280

The Mother Book calleth out with the most exalted voice and summoneth the people to the supreme horizon. Whosoever hath attained unto acceptance and taken hold of it with the hand of certitude, he verily hath acknowledged and confessed all the divine Books. Without this, even if one were to memorize all Books, it would yield no fruit  BH07299

If ye are able to produce the like of this Book - to you be your religion and to Me be God's religion, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy. And if ye are unable - and ye shall never be able, even if all were to assist you, ye shall never be able - then turn away from that which is false and enter the Gate, prostrating yourselves, that ye might prosper.   BB00269

As for the scholarly matters and sermon-verses that none, not even Ahmad and Kazim (God's blessings upon them both), could surpass - behold what We have revealed in the commentary on Surah al-Kawthar, for verily a single letter thereof equals not all the books of the ancients, nor what We revealed in the commentary on al-Baqarah for the weak among the believers.   BB00073

By the Essence of God Who hath been Peerless, and will forever remain Incomparable! The Writings of that Sun of the Truth is more radiant than the lights of sun in the daytime, while the works of those who are guided by His supreme guidance, should they attain the most exalted summit of knowledge and true recognition, resemble the light of stars in the night season.  BB00001

All the books of the world cannot be compared to one Tablet from Him. The Tongue of Grandeur hath testified to this, and behind it all things, if ye be of them that hear. Glory be to God! The wondrous, transcendent verses that have been sent down bear no resemblance to verses of the past, and yet they have said that which no oppressor hath said in the days of Manifestation.  BH00119

By the Lord Who is the Seal Bearer, if all the peoples of the earth were to gather together to produce a single verse, they would be powerless to do so. And if they did produce something, it would be plagiarized words, not expressions flowing naturally from their tongues, just as in early Islam when the eloquent Arabs made their claims but were ultimately disgraced and humiliated.   BB00119

Now also the Writings of the Blessed Beauty cannot be translated. No matter how it is translated it cannot be like the original. The original is quite different. It is in the utmost eloquence and beauty. It is so marvellous that no one is able to produce the like. It is so eloquent, so complete. In Persian and Arabic it is extraordinary. All is written in a new style. No one has ever written in such a style.   ABU0305

Had human beings been able to accomplish this deed surely someone would have brought forth at least one verse during the period of twelve hundred and seventy years which hath elapsed since the revelation of the Qur'an until that of the Bayan. However, all men have proved themselves impotent and have utterly failed to do so, although they endeavoured, with their vehement might, to quench the flame of the Word of God.  BB00001

The essence of the matter is that God, exalted be His glory, in His consummate wisdom, hath in the Dispensation of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, ordained the Furqan to be the Proof. This was a bounty not vouchsafed to any people before Muhammad, the Apostle of God - that a verse from the Book of God should serve as proof for all who dwell on earth, demonstrate the powerlessness of all, and establish the power of God.  BB00015

This is the wonderful reason why the verses of God are the supreme incontrovertible testimony unto all beings, and why they constitute the most mighty clear evidence and the most great conclusive token to vindicate His power and knowledge. Were all the people that dwell on earth to assemble together, they would be unable to produce a single verse like unto the ones which God hath caused to stream forth from the tongue of the Point of the Bayan.  BB00001

The waves of the ocean of the utterance of the All-Merciful have appeared in such wise that all the pens of the world are powerless to describe them. How much less can this evanescent one be capable of making mention thereof or describing them. A single drop from the ocean of His mercy would purify all the sinners on earth and adorn them with the raiment of forgiveness, and a single ray from the sun of His knowledge would dispel the name of ignorance from the world.  BH02206

And were We to will, We would surely send down in every letter the like of the Qur'an, and thy Lord God is indeed the Mighty, the Powerful. And verily one verse from the verses of this Book equalleth in decree the verses of the Prophets. And after all creation there shall be none to question the proofs of God. And were men to gather together concerning this Cause, and the jinn to aid them in their weakness, they would never be able to produce the like of this Book, even if they were helpers one of another.   BB00284

Verily a single letter of what is revealed by the hands of the Remembrance equal not the verses of the ancients. And if all were to gather to produce the like of a single verse that We have revealed unto thee in this Book, they would never be able, even were We to aid them with the like of themselves inexhaustibly.   BB00224

Indeed in the entire Qur'an, God hath not adduced any proof to vindicate the truth of the Apostle of God, blessings of God rest upon Him, and the religion of Islam, except through the divine verses, which are the most mighty evidence. What proveth this supreme superiority of the verses is that all the people speak with the same letters of alphabet, and yet the Lord of the universe, hath revealed the words of the Qur'an in such wise that should all the dwellers on earth combine together and desire to bring forth one comparable verse in refutation of the verses of the Qur'an, they would be powerless to do so, and they all would fail.  BB00001

Know thou that a single verse of what We have revealed unto thee sufficeth as proof for all who dwell on earth, and God is the All-Witnessing, the All-Knowing. Should men and jinn combine to produce the like of this Book, and should the jinn assist them in their weakness, they would never be able, nor would they have the power, even were they to be helpers one of another.   BB00241
