Sixth, the establishment of the Supreme Tribunal, and its details.  AB01419

This would be the highest court of appeal, and the parliament of man so long dreamed of by poets and idealists would be realized. Its accomplishment would be more far-reaching than the Hague tribunal.  ABU0788

The international tribunal of justice will soon be organized in accordance with the principles of BAHA'O'LLAH, and then all differences will be adjusted before the members of that impartial tribunal.   ABU0644

A universal tribunal under the power of God, under the protection of all men, shall be established. Each one must obey the decisions of this tribunal, in order to arrange the difficulties of every nation.   ABU0225

And in case there should arise some disputes between them, they could arbitrate before the Parliament of Man, the representatives of which should be chosen from among the wiser and most judicious men of all the nations of the world.   ABU0776

The text advocates for establishing an international supreme court: "if they would refer resolution of these difficulties to a general tribunal, that supreme court could investigate...likewise a supreme court should be established to settle international and interstate difficulties."   ABU0348

A Supreme Tribunal will be established, and difficulties arising between nations and peoples will be resolved in that Supreme Tribunal. This is conditional and dependent upon peace-lovers becoming numerous in the world, love for humanity increasing, public thought becoming oriented toward peace.  ABU0113

International tribunals will be established and certain representatives from amongst all the governments of the earth will be sent to that inter-parliamentary gathering. The era of "the parliament of man" will be ushered in. This international tribunal will be the court of appeals between the nations.   ABU0036

The founding of an international tribunal, to which all the nations of the world shall send authorized representatives to compose this body, and to arbitrate all the international disputes which may arise on the earth. This interparliamentary body will be protected by humanity at large, an ultimate arbiter.   ABU0382

I hope that the members of the League, and especially its benevolent President who seeks the welfare of humanity, will succeed in establishing, in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah, a Supreme Tribunal whose members shall be chosen from among all the nations and governments of the world. This Supreme Tribunal will be the protector and guarantor of universal peace.  AB02230

To remedy this condition there must be universal peace. To bring this about, a Supreme Tribunal must be established, representative of all governments and peoples; questions both national and international must be referred thereto, and all must carry out the decrees of this Tribunal. Should any government or people disobey, let the whole world arise against that government or people.   AB00197

A universal court of justice has to be established. Every country must elect 2 or 3 members depending on the size of the population, who are the best, both in competence as well as character. These persons will have to be elected by the country's parliaments and this choice must be ratified by the people, the ministers and the heads of state, so that these members will be the true representatives of the whole nation. Together they will constitute an international court of arbitration that will deal with all international discord.  ABU0477

Baha'u'llah had said that the functions of the International Court would be to settle disputes that arose from time to time between the nations; to define the exact boundaries of the different countries, and to decide what number of soldiers and guns should be maintained by each nation, according to its population, in order to preserve internal order. For instance, one country might have ten thousand soldiers, another twenty thousand, another fifteen thousand, and so on, in accordance with the size and population of the nation; also if any people rebelled against the decision of the Court and rejected it, the Court would empower the others to join their forces and to endorse their decision, if need be, by united action.   ABU0769

Therefore He commanded the formation of a Supreme Tribunal, so that all nations and governments would elect representatives-that is, each national assembly would elect a representative, confirmed by the senate, signed by the cabinet ministers, and ratified by the sovereigns or presidents, so that representative would embody the entire nation, nobility, ministers, sovereign and president. From these representatives would be formed an assembly in the utmost joy and fragrance, establishing the Supreme Tribunal. All important matters and great problems between nations and governments would be resolved in this Supreme Tribunal, so that the foundation of war would be destroyed and humanity would be delivered from this shame and disgrace.   AB00178

A Supreme Tribunal shall be elected by the peoples and governments of every nation, where members from each country and government shall assemble in unity. All disputes shall be brought before this Court, its mission being to prevent war.  ABU0091
