
Do not worship the Lantern--worship the light.   ABU3423

like the reflection of the sun in pure mirrors  ABU1606

the Dove warbled in the midmost heart of eternity  BH11053

O nightingales...the flower...the wine of nearness  BH11031

The fragrance of the rose leads man to the Garden.   ABU3452

true wealth is surging and inundating like unto the ocean   ABU3614

It has the same connection as the sun has with the mirror.  ABU3571

The soaring celestial eagle represents three luminous stars  AB11949

Behold the Tree and its fruits. They are before your faces.   BH06842

The miracles of Christ were spiritual teachings, not literal.   ABU3618

The story about the dove is simply a metaphor. No dove came down.   ABU3339

emergence of luminous maiden from Paradise who calls out to humanity  BH05463

the bird of your soul would not be contained in the cage of the body   AB06276

Heat from the fire of their condition is manifest from the tree today   BH10562

The wolves of the world have torn apart and beheaded the true Josephs.   BH09679

Use of spring, rose garden, nightingale, wine cup as spiritual metaphors   AB05428

Until the sun rises in the West, the door of repentance will remain open.   ABU3591

as a lamp unto the darkened world and as a sun unto the realm of knowledge   BH10791

And verily the number of Lord corresponds to the seven letters - ponder this!  BB00023

In the Torah and Gospel, the divine Kingdom is likened to a garden and vineyard   AB11757

that thou mayest drink of the Kawthar of the spirit and taste of the fruit of light   BH07029

O God! These children are like unto pearls. Rear them in the shells of Thy Providence.  ABU3070

The extended metaphor of light, candles, and lanterns is used to convey spiritual truths  AB12085

"When I ride on it, it is the Ark of Noah. This aeroplane will become the Ark of Noah."   ABU2035

His days were but as the days of roses - thus was it ordained by the hidden pen of might   BH07610

The bird symbolizes an earthly man, who received spiritual education through the Christ.   ABU2869

Lord! Make their hearts pure mirrors reflecting and displaying the lights of Your oneness   AB01103

Then did the Beauty mount the saddle of light, even as the Spirit mounted the mighty throne.  BH02100

This is the Lote-Tree wherein burneth the Fire of God; hasten ye unto it, O people of glory!  BH11865

O Mystery of Ta-Ha and Temple of Kaf-Ha-Ya-'Ayn-Sad, and the mercy of God and His blessings   BB00120

The Tree needs rain, and when the rain falls whether it is warm or cold it does not matter.   ABU2481

there is a Garden of God. Human beings are trees growing therein. The Gardener is Our Father.  ABU2374

whereby the Bell hath pealed and the Peacock hath cried out and the mountains have passed away   BH11418

who have drunk the choice sealed wine through His Name, the Self-Subsisting, on a wondrous day   BH11524

You are two birds of one nest, and two fledglings of one dwelling, and two moths of one flame.   AB11962

Verily the bird of heaven proclaimeth... Verily the mystic dove calleth out... The pen sayeth...  BH08038

Consider man as a sword: while it remains in its sheath, its quality remains hidden and concealed.  BH10950

The spider busies itself catching flies, while the divine Phoenix of Qaf hunts for inner meanings.  BH07455

Adam is the symbol of the childhood of the race of man... the apple symbolizes [great knowledge].   ABU3083

The hand is veiled, yet the pen writes as bidden; The horse leaps forward, yet the rider's hidden.  AB00004

Bride means Christ; Bridegroom, the cause of God. The first is faith; the second, action and deeds.  ABU2477

"the birds of holiness, chanted in those gardens and the lions of knowledge roared in these jungles"  AB04150

I liken you to the pupil of the eye. You are black and it is black, yet it becomes the focus of light.   ABU3487

The poem about wine and glass uses metaphorical language about their similarity and interchangeability.   ABU1603

For instance, take this teapot. It, in its beauty, is of itself in appearance. It is the last of its kind.  ABU3455

When one enters a rose garden, one inhales sweet fragrances, but in a dunghill one encounters foul smells.  ABU1427

This seed may be likened to the perfect soul; the souls of men in general are as the leaves and the flowers.  ABU2645

The spiritual significance shows that Abel represents the Divine Law or Religion, and Cain the human nature.  ABU2089

It is like urging a horse to full speed by whipping him. The whip represents the effect of wine on man's body.  ABU2766

The dawn hath broken and the moon hath appeared, and the Sun crieth out: "To Me, to Me, O peoples of the earth!"  BH07752

In short, one finds on this divine table all kinds of spiritual food which constitutes the real Supper of the Lord   ABU2527

"These are symbols. Always, half is the symbol of the Glory of GOD, and the Face is the symbol of the Beauty of GOD"  ABU2774

Through one blessed word He caused the new creation to blaze like a sphere of fire and sent it forth with a mission.   BH03640

The spittle coming from was the meaning. The dust was the expression that He used in accordance with their understanding.   ABU0898

when that drop passed beyond the realm of contingent being it hastened to the infinite expanse and became a boundless sea   AB05346

The name is like a chalice and the attribute like the wine. I hope that these two cups may overflow with that divine wine.  AB08768

You are on the seashore and on the shore of a tumultuous sea. When you gaze upon that sea, remember the Sea of the Covenant.  AB07070

Be a light that shineth forth in the darkness of the night, and set the world aflame. Be thou radiant with divine excellence.  AB02550

The Tree of Anisa is the blessed tree which hath flourished in the Most Great Paradise and casteth its shadow upon all regions   AB07443

Hearken thou unto the call of thy Lord from the right side of the Throne, from behind a thousand veils of luminous silk damask.   BH11564

Thus hath crowed the Cock of the Divine Throne, and sung the Dove, and warbled the Nightingale of Paradise, did ye but hear it.   BH06053

It is all the time for music and song, for melody and shahnavaz, so that the nightingale's song may reach the Kingdom of Mystery.  AB04205

Christ's metaphor of the candle and lantern, and the references to the Sun of Identity and dark clouds, employ extensive symbolism  AB12085

If a tree was fruit-bearing in the past but is now dead, then it is no longer a tree. Today, it must manifest harvests and fruits.   ABU2589

This goodly Tree, though hidden at first, will erelong envelop the whole world, and its leaves and branches will reach the heavens.  ABU2827

We have ordained for each one a temple from Our presence, the like of which all the worlds cannot equal even a single letter thereof.   BB00566

The green leaf which bore luminous signs arrived upon the crimson earth... which appeared in the form of a bird speaking in a language   BH01510

"Serpent is the symbol of religion, because a serpent swallows everything; so the religion of God swallows up, or removes every doubt."  ABU1464

and the Bird of Light warbles upon the branches of the Tree of Sinai, and the Cock of Glorification sings in the gardens of Divine Unity  BH07539

Lead these two fish to the sweet waters of guidance, and bring these two gazelles of the wilderness of unity to the meadow of Thy bounty.  AB08707

The intent of "heaven" is not this boundless space, but rather the intent of heaven is the world of reality which is higher than all worlds  AB05527

These tents may be likened to the trappings of this world, which no sooner are they spread out than the time cometh for them to be rolled up.  BHU0059

He leads forth the army of love in the field of endeavor and eliminates the forces of enmity, hostility and rancor from the face of the earth.  AB06061

I beseech Thee by Thy Fig which was raised up in the Most Exalted Paradise, and by the Olive Tree which stood tall before the crimson chambers   BH08297

The nightingale singeth only in spring and crieth not until it seeth the rose - symbolic representation of the soul's longing for divine beauty  BH03210

I praise Thee for having ordained the Fountain of Life in the Garden of Good-Pleasure, wherein Thou didst join together fire and water and unite them through Thy power, such that they shall never be parted throughout the eternity of Thy might and the perpetuity of Thy sovereignty. Thou didst appoint as keeper of this Fountain the serpent of Thy power and the snake of Thy protection, and didst breathe into this keeper from the essence of Thy spirit, such that all things die save it, and all things sleep save it, as if it were made a sign of movement, for within it is passion and rapture and agitation.  BH01730

"Once again the dove of eternity hath descended from the rizwan of nearness to sing the long-forgotten melody in this gloomy and disastrous age.  ABU1804

My hair is My Phoenix. Therefore hath it set itself upon the blazing fire of My Face and receiveth sustenance from the garden of My Countenance.   BH11265

The Tongue of Grandeur has in all times summoned the servants to the living waters...summoning them to the Hidden Name and the Treasured Secret.   BH04825

the belly of the whale represents the darkness of the world of nature, and deliverance and salvation from this darkness is a boundless wilderness  AB11375

When the letters of There is no God but God bore witness unto Ali on the Day of Beginning, they were seen around the Fire in the land of the heart.  BB00002

The mountains being shaken before the coming of the messenger means that great peoples -- great as mountains -- are shaken and become transplanted.  ABU1349

Him Who was named the Quarter of Eternity, then the Sinai of the Cloud, then the Horeb of Origination, then the Crimson Paran, then the Sacred Precinct  BH10399

which is like the blessed Tree whose "root is firmly fixed in the earth and whose branch reacheth unto heaven" and "yielding its fruit in all seasons."  AB04202

And know that God has said: "We shall show them Our signs in the horizons and within themselves until it becomes clear to them that this is the Truth."   BB00289

The cause of God is like unto a house. In the house there are many precious jewels, many rare objects the like of which can be found nowhere in the world.  ABU2912

The Kingdom of God is like unto this garden. It contains many kind of trees. In due season the trees must not only produce leaves and blossoms, but fruits.  ABU3053

We have sent unto thee this garment that thou mayest find from it the fragrance of musk, but he who is afflicted with a cold cannot perceive aught therefrom   BH01355

"Then, further, there are certain signs and allegories recorded in the Scriptures relative to the coming of the Messiah. These signs are written in symbols."  ABU0401

Do you not see the bird soaring in the atmosphere of heaven, how We grasp it at the Gate to teach you the stages of the leaves from the Camphor Tree in truth?  BB00002

The nightingales sang the melody of unity and expressed mysteries and meanings. It became a garden of supreme paradise, and the rose garden sought adornment.   AB02420

The Dove of Holiness has warbled in these gardens, and the Lions of Truth have roared in these thickets, and the Whales of Knowledge have swum in these pools.   AB05953

As long as you are on the shore - or as long as the sands of your sins are on the shore - the waves of the sea will wash them for the sea will wash everything.   ABU3226

The sun gives light to the entire world, but its penetrating power is strongest at the equator. The divine teachings should have their strongest effect in Iran.  ABU2249

Look at these white lilies--How fragrant and pure they are! an emblem of the spotless heart, a token of graceful life, typifying virginity and harmonious existence.   ABU1573

the buildings of the city are like beehives, with people constantly engaged in building and stacking and preparing means of physical comfort, exactly like honeybees   ABU3295

Hell designated the heedlessness of people from God. The meaning of skin is doubts, and whenever one doubt of their doubts is taken away, a new doubt will take place.  ABU3510

True spirituality is like unto a lake of clear water which reflects the divine. There is another kind which is like a mirage, seeming to be spiritual when it is not.   ABU2285

The banquet of divine bounty is spread to overflowing and festive celebrations are in full splendour in the meadow for the chalice of Jamshid is being carried round!   AB05157

Verily the ocean surgeth, the ark is the way and entering it is to be lifted up towards Him. The clouds raineth, the meadows rejoiceth, and the sweet savours wafteth.   AB05969

God beareth witness that the ocean surgeth, and the breeze bloweth, and the Light shineth forth, and the Fire calleth aloud, and the Sun speaketh, and the Moon uttereth.   BH11266

The polytheists have sunk Thy crimson Ark and slaughtered Thy white She-Camel, and desired to extinguish Thy light through the fire of hatred that blazed in their hearts.   BH09107

Some individuals are like rootless plants, they are pulled out by the slightest breeze. But those who are steadfast are like trees that have strong roots and foundations.   ABU3136

A lock of My hair is My Cord. He who layeth fast hold on it shall never to all eternity go astray, for therein is his guidance to the splendours of the Light of His Beauty.  BH11483

that he may dwell at the point of snow on the mountain of cold around the point of union, and at a point of fire from the mountain of justice around the water of separation  BB00002

There is a saying in the East by which the color white symbolizes divine will; red, divine decree and martyrdom; green, predestination; and yellow, execution of the decree   ABU3148

O Lord! Make him a nightingale whose song rises in this sublime garden, a lofty tree with low-hanging fruits in this exalted paradise, and a warbling bird in these thickets  AB11681

Though musk and ambergris are sweet-scented and fragrant, their diffusion is confined to a limited distance. But the musk-pods of divine mysteries perfume both East and West  AB07494

By the locks of Thy musk-scented hair, which hath cut off the destitute dwellers of the valley of search from all hope and expectation through the majesty of a new affliction  BH11235

Christ is a king. His shepherd's staff, that is, his tongue, was a sword dividing the true from the false. The throne of David is not a material throne but an eternal kingdom.  ABU0875

So in order to give any shadow of meaning to us of this Infinite, everlasting Kingdom, He compared it to this world as it would seem to a baby still in its mother's womb, etc.   ABU1645

This is a remembrance from the Tree of Love which has descended upon the shore of the heart, and a fire from the treasury of nearness which is ignited in the Mount of the Tablet   BH11394

the candle of the assembly of light was extinguished, and the bat of blindness became the player in the field, the King of the sanctuary of glory sat upon the point of abasement   BH02605

The letter Fa is given symbolic significance in creation and illumination: "Upon it be the glory of its Lord, and may the Fa grant it illumination in its beginning and its end."   BB00314

This meeting is like the meeting of magnet and iron, like the spring rain and pure, pristine soil, like the meeting of light and mirror, like the meeting of the breeze and trees.  ABU2317

In animal types it is known that the stomach must be sound and healthy, and when it is so what is taken with the tongue will be safe and good for the body. The same thing with man.  ABU2476

when they weep like winter clouds and laugh like spring lightning, when like trees they don the robe of the greatest gift and like flower gardens burst forth with blossoms and roses  AB11684

"Paris is like unto a green meadow, the people are like unto the sheep, they graze in this meadow, they drink of the flowing streams. The philosophers cow-like, graze with the rest."   ABU3192

And from this verse that says in the Torah that the Spirit of God was like a bird above the water - what is meant is the water of divine knowledge which is the cause of heavenly life.  ABU2591

The form of the cross is made by two lines crossing each other at right angles. It is to be found in everything--even in this piece of cloth. It is the symbol of spiritual sacrifice.   ABU3032

This water hath been called by all names - at times thou seest it as fire, in such wise that its roaring flame is heard; at other times thou beholdest it as light, kindled and shining.  BH08629

Praise be to Him Who made darkness the ornament of light and thereby adorned the beauty of manifestation...as though it were the Pen of Creation moving upon the Holy Tablet in Paradise   BH11127

just as God says "the Kaaba is the House of God," and there is no doubt that God is none other than His creation which He has related to Himself so that all His servants might honor it   BB00569

the pure water in the two gulfs, the fire in the two trees, the camphor water in the two rivers, the mystery of manifestation in the two rings, and the forgiving cause in the two stations  BB00244

In another sense, by the terms sun, moon, and stars are meant such laws and teachings as have been established and proclaimed in every Dispensation, such as the laws of prayer and fasting.  BH00002

This is the Lote-Tree of the Utmost Boundary, and the Furthermost Mosque, and "the distance of two bow-lengths or even closer" in relation to those souls who dwell in the realm of creation.  AB09696

Reflect upon the books of old and what was revealed therein concerning the signs of the Manifestation. By God! Thou shalt find naught save symbols and allusions, if ye would but understand.   BH01153

Hearken ye to the rapturous melody from the Countenance of Him Who sitteth upon the Throne of Nearness, the Point of Manifestation, the Mystery of Concealment, the Hidden Secret of the Book   BH00952

This is the Light manifest in the two Suns rising from the two Corners after the folding up of the two Stations, that thereby might be revealed the melodies of the Spirit upon the two Branches  BH02437

Its Sun never sets; its Moon is ever a full moon, it never is on the wane; its stars are all suns; its season is ever Spring; its blossoms and flowers never wither; its trees are ever fruitful.   ABU1646


Their throne is the supreme empyrean and their crown is the effulgence of confirmation from the Kingdom of the Glorious Lord. Their lamp is brilliant and their diadem radiant like the shining moon.  AB06041

Cast a flower into water and it sinks; place a flower upon water and it rests like a crown upon the water's brow. That is, manifestation and permanence are preferable to concealment and evanescence.  BH06754

"soar to the heights of heaven", "shine like the eastern sun", "the closed door will open", "the intimate dove will return", "Show the male lion in that forest - there the female hyena will submit"   AB07370

The text uses extensive garden imagery, comparing spiritual development to plants, flowers, and fragrances, concluding with the exhortation to become "roses and sweet basil and violets and narcissus"  AB02559

The sun is always shining upon mines, but all of them do not become gold and silver mines. In every mine neither are diamonds to be found. It depends upon the capacity of the mine to become diamond.   ABU2913

Blindness is physical, not spiritual. They say our Lord cured blindness; it was blindness of the soul. ("They have eyes and see not, ears they have and hear not.") He brought on spiritual awakening.   ABU2530

O Solace of the Eyes! Say: God hath placed the decree of those who came before in a ring of red carnelian, and of the believers in a ring of yellow pearl, and of the idolaters in a ring of green iron.  BB00002

O perfumer of the fragrant musk of mysteries, open the casket and make the horizons redolent with musk, that minds may become perfumed and sweetly scented from the fragrances of the Most Glorious Paradise  AB06832

The Tree of the Cloud is in motion and the Lote-Tree of Faithfulness is in joy, that the Tree of Eternity might be planted in the land of oneness and the leaf of light might be joined with the mystic dove   BH09880

I saw a number of birds in the shape of grenades fly up from the ship and over the city. They soared from one part of town to another, yet the grenades did not detonate, and the birds returned to the ship.  ABU3141

The eternal candle hath shone forth from within the glass of the eternal, and the lamp of the lights of His Holiness the Everlasting One hath gleamed from within the niche of Ahmad and the lamp of Muhammad   BH09881

Look at the Word of Unity - it has twelve letters, and its foundations are three letters: the Alif representing the station of the Tree, the Lam representing the connection, and the Ha representing the fire   BB00344

God hath created Joseph and his brethren from the Blessed Tree of Unity, and people know not from their expressions the mystery of what was inscribed with God, the Truth, in the Mother Book, around the Fire.  BB00002

The world is like the human body and the Cause of God is like the spirit. Until the body has capacity, the spirit will not be made manifest. The very appearance of the spirit is proof of the body's capacity.  ABU1267

the melody of the eternal dove from the Orient of the everlasting heaven's splendor, with holy breaths from the divine cloud, from the essence of the city of faithfulness and the core of the garden of meeting  BH09268

By God! The earth hath related its tidings to the Gate. Say: From God have I inspired it. Whosoever performeth an atom's weight of good upon the earth, We shall recompense him with good, and justice for evil.  BB00002

But these words were symbolic, and the Jewish divines did not understand them. They supposed these conditions would be fulfilled according to their literal and apparent meaning, whereas they were all symbolic.  ABU0103

So long as a pearl lieth within the bosom of its shell, its luster and loveliness will remain unknown...The splendor of the pearl is revealed when it is brought to market and freed from the prison of its shell.  AB06376

The tree whose root is firm will yield luscious fruits. The building whose foundation is solid will stand the rush of torrent and hurricane. The steamer, which is built strongly, will resist the battling waves.   AB05114

Similarly when the clouds pour forth vernal showers and the sun shineth resplendent, no one can then realize the meaning of this favour. However, when the blossoms spring forth, everything will become apparent.   ABU2049

At the hour when the Sun of the heaven of existence cast aside the veil of manifestation from Its countenance, and the Moon of the cloud of purpose raised high the covering of limitations above the hills of power   BH10252

And He passed by thee like lightning flashing from the clouds - nay, faster than that - while thou wert standing in the land of symbols, at Horeb of the Command, Mount Paran, Sinai of the limits, Seir of existence  BH02137

The discussion centers on wearing physical symbols like crosses and rings with the Greatest Name as reminders and focuses for thought, explaining "You wear the cross for remembrance, it concentrates your thoughts"   ABU3168

Enter into the marketplace of the Kingdom and obtain cloth from the fine silk of paradise and holy brocade. Cut and sew a garment befitting the form of the people of Baha and place it upon the temple of faithfulness   AB07290

In these days when the heavens of attraction have been raised up, and the sun of rapture has risen from the horizon of appearance, and the stars of joy have become manifest, and the moons of might have become radiant   BH04041

The bird of immortality has flown to the city of the unknowable divine Cloud, and the dove of the spirit has taken flight from its branch and sought another perch. Then weep, lovers and people of the concourse on high.  BH01644

This, verily, is the Frequented Temple. Say: This, verily, is the Leaf of Camphor. Say: This, verily, is the Tree of Manifestation. Say: This, verily, is the Ocean that surgeth. Say: This, verily, is a hidden Remembrance.  BB00004

Indeed, the wings of the peacock spread out in the midmost heart of paradise and the crow croaked in the ruinous waste. The Dove sang in the thickly planted grove of faithfulness and the owl screeched in the ominous land.  AB09077

And what you drank from the cup - it was connected to the Most Great Ocean which has no end. This is evidence of your Lord's grace toward you, and He has ordained for you from this ocean that which will never be exhausted.  BH01932

This world is like unto ant-houses. Have you ever observed how the ants are ever busy to gather provisions, sometimes carrying heavier loads than themselves? But once in a while some of these ants grow wings and soar away.  ABU2621

Rather, the cloud referred to in the Gospel is the human body, so called because the body is as a veil to man, which, even as a cloud, preventeth him from beholding the Sun of Truth that shineth from the horizon of Christ.  AB01866

Through their mutual reflection, the mystery of unity becomes manifest, and His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp within a glass, the glass as it were a glittering star, lit from a blessed tree becomes evident.  AB07490

Joseph and the pit symbolize spiritual stations and transformation, with We preserved him in the depths of the well around the Fire, concealed and cast him into the depths of the pit of Oneness representing spiritual meanings  BB00002

until this brilliant star of bounty may rise from the horizon of heart and soul, and this bird of aspiration may fall into the snare of attainment, this flower may bloom in the gathering, and this dove may sing in that garden  AB05265

Though chicory appears outwardly bitter, inwardly it is most sweet. This describes the outer chicory that appears in earthly gardens. But you are the chicory of the paradise of sanctification and the leaf of the Divine Lote-Tree  BH09523

whereby the trees of the garden of Thy Revelation have been clad with verdure, and been made to yield the fruits of holiness during this Springtime when the sweet savors of Thy favors and blessings have been wafted over all things  BH08824

Cast it behind the Red Sea, O He Whom God shall make manifest, in the realm of the divine cloud - that is, His own Self - and conceal it in the Pole of Glory - that is, in the essential reality of Him Whom God shall make manifest.  BH04151

That drop has found its way to the Most Great Ocean, and that nightingale has winged its flight to the rose-garden of the Beloved, becoming the intimate companion and harmonious voice with the holy birds in the Paradise of Heaven.  AB09574

Observe the trees: before grafting, their fruit is not worthy of mention, but afterwards that which is worthy of praise appears. A tree, which is counted among plants, through a small measure of cultivation attains to this station.  BH07562

He is the heaven in ancient loftiness which We have established, raised around the water. He is the mountains in their firm establishment which We have set up, extended around the fire. He is the earth made subject between Our hands  BB00002

When Joseph's brothers took him to the land of Unity, as was inscribed in the hidden mystery around the Line, they placed the letters of Unity, the letter Ha, in the depths of the well of the heart's mystery, veiled around the Fire.  BB00002

"I desire that you may see the divine ships. These ships are the blessed sails who are traversing the sea of divine mercy; their propellers are the powers of spiritual love and their captains are the inspiration of the Holy Spirit."  ABU2729

For instance this flower has identity, qualities, name, and deeds - which is its fragrance, - for instance the sun, it has identity, qualities, name and function - it gives light. Those four "Bahas" are symbols of these four things.  ABU2478

Its suns are ever-shining, its moons ever-rising, its stars ever-gleaming, its lands ever-verdant, its rivers ever-flowing, its trees ever-fruitful, its flowers ever-blooming, its bounties ever-lasting, and its blessings ever-enduring.  BHU0006

We have verily sent forth the caravan of love by God's leave unto this well. When he let down his bucket with the gaze of the heart, he said: O glad tidings! This verily is the Truth - this is a youth the like of whom no eye hath seen!  BB00002

The Moon gets its light from the Sun by reflection. The seven days mean seven Appearances. The trumpet is the Declaration. Verse 5: the fire means calamities preceding the coming of Baha'o'llah. Clouds mean the Body of the Manifestation.   ABU1641

His Holiness Christ on account of the avocation of His disciples called them the fisher of men but the Blessed Perfection designated the Baha'is as the vivifiers of the world. Today this world is like unto a waving, moving, tumultuous sea.  ABU0995

He asked what kind of place it was and where it was. We answered that 'Ama' has weather so pleasant as to be considered divine, trees laden with fruit, is green and verdant, has flowing rivers, and is a gathering-place for spiritual people.  BHU0033

Kindle these two lamps in the glass of the Kingdom and cause these two shining stars to rise from the eternal horizon. Grant these two free birds flight to the highest heaven that they may build their nests and abodes upon the Tree of Life   AB11885

And He has made the creation of light in His names like unto the creation of souls, wherein no trace of self is observed, and which in their mutual reflection and mirroring reflect the manifestations of His sun of oneness exactly as they are.  BB00005

The water in this sense bears the meaning of words, for it is the cause of life, in its literal and spiritual interpretation. Therefore Mary desired He would speak to them something that would exhilarate their spirits, like wine for the body.  ABU2503

"Again the personality is like the chimney and the Truth is as the light. We can put the light of the lamp in another chimney and it is still the same light. We should not become attached to the chimney and put the light out of our thoughts."   ABU1577

In these days the letter Alif stands upright, and from its standing the world has arisen in lamentation. The letter Ha weeps from both eyes, and the condition of Ba is beyond mention. None has understood the mysteries of God save His own Self.   BH00300

Faith is like a glowing candle, the human heart like a glass chimney, and the human body like a lamp-niche. That lamp and this glass and this niche - the light of that lamp shines upon the glass and from the glass it is diffused upon the niche.   ABU1662

A holy city, and a Lord Ever-Forgiving is the glorious utterance and the explicit text of the Qur'an. The holy city is the City of Love, and the Lord Ever-Forgiving is manifest and evident to the friends of that city with His attribute of mercy.  AB10934

these brilliant stars are also attracted in their ascension to that apex of radiant stations, and these stars are drawn to the Kingdom's horizon. Parts are attracted to the center of the whole, and nightingales yearning for the beauty of the rose   AB04157

In the time of Christ the commands of Moses were as dry bones, and in this time all previous laws are as dry bones, but which are to be refreshed by the Great River of this time, and are to be clothed with the new sinews of Life by his Revelation.  ABU2767

The teaching of the Cause is like the wafting of the vernal breeze through the trees, it vivifies them but the discussion of material things is as the autumnal gale the blowing of which causes the trees to dry and the leaves to fall on the ground.  ABU1329

And in its manifestation in the form of the serpent are signs for those of insight. Say: Verily it is the serpent of divine decree by which God protecteth His treasuries and preserveth them from the hands of thieves and the gaze of the treacherous   BH06431

Then We beheld her black tresses upon her white neck, as though night and day had embraced in this Most Glorious Spot and Ultimate Goal. How sweet was her nectar! Whoso tasted it testified that the stream of life flowed from the point of her mouth.  BH01325

All praise be to God Who made the embellishment of the tablets of the Morn of Eternity the embellishment of the Alif standing between two Bas. It shone forth and radiated after it was originated, before it was invented, when it was brought into being.  BB00089

The day of the Manifestation of God is the divine and spiritual springtime when the trees of human souls become green and flourishing, new beauty and freshness are brought to the gardens of the hearts and new inspiration and fresh bounties are bestowed.  ABU0425

Then look at the phrase which is "Grace unto you, and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come." He who was is the King of Peace, He who is is Christ, and He who is to come is the Promised One mentioned in God's books and scriptures.  AB03527

And the blessed explanation in establishing the reality of the letter "Ha" between the two - this "Ha" is the "Ha" of Identity which falls between "Ba" and "Alif"...And the "Vav" is the throne of "Ha", and that mighty throne occurs between two appointments  AB00906

As long as the tree does not send its root to the bowel of the earth it will not become secure and established, neither will it grow and develop into the full stature. But if it is not firmly-rooted, it will be broken before the blowing of one strong wind.  ABU2695

The call has been raised, the Dove has warbled, the verdant garden has been adorned, the streams of the lush garden have gushed forth, the peacock has cried out in the expanse of paradise, and the croaking of the croaker and cawing of the crow have risen.   AB11879

"Letter" means a person. As the world came forth from the Mouth, that person is the reflection of the Light of GOD. It is the Letter in which are all the mysteries of the Holy Books. It is the Letter that came forth from the Mouth of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1942

Our theatre is built in a county where there is eternal springtime, the streets of that city are as clean as the surface of the Mirror, the light of that play house are the rays of the Sun of Reality, the actors of our drama are the Holy Manifestation of God  ABU2037

In these days when the birds of the realm of existence have gathered and formed ranks in the heaven of manifestation, the hoopoe of divine attraction hath taken flight from the atmosphere of mighty power and turned from the eternal East to the everlasting West  BH03204

The dream symbolically depicts being pursued by an uncontrollable force, with the dreamer ultimately observing from a safe vantage point while the aggressor attacks only an empty garment, suggesting the futility of material/physical attacks against the spirit.   ABU3140

Jesus spoke everything in parables because the ideal sense is, in this way, revealed and understood. This contingent world is like the mirror of the spiritual kingdom; consequently it is better to explain each subject so that the real meaning can be understood.  ABU0895

And the pristine being has put on the veil of limitations that it may become a messenger from the cloud of love and find its way to the Sheba of divine love, that it may partake and receive its portion of the overwhelming ecstasy and the attractions of longing.   BH03108

For instance, if your beloved sends you a rose, you appreciate it, kiss it and it is valuable to you. This love is not regarding the personality of the thing itself, but for the sake of the one who has sent it to you. We must love the house for its owner's sake.  ABU2687

"Verily I am the Fruit, I was singing the secret of the Blessed Tree to its leaves. Verily I am the Leaf in the Tree, I was chanting with the secret of Tha upon Mount Sinai. Verily I am the Eternal Fruit with the Primal Leaf in the Final Tree, I was the attractor."  BB00204

The rose-cheeked Cup-bearer circleth and the fairy-faced Beloved hath appeared from His concealment. The morning draught is passed around and the eternal wine of the All-Glorious is... The musician hath begun his melody and the Beloved is privily in feigned disdain.  AB07225

This bird with broken wing and lowered primary and secondary feathers is for Your loved ones at all times. Make for it a nest in the branches of Your thicket which You have concealed from the eyes of those heedless of Your favors that are manifest to the righteous.   AB06556

For example, the wick in a lamp may burn out or become low, but the oil is still there and the light in that sense is not discontinued; or the chimney may become blackened with smoke, but the light shines within as brightly, though it be not as plainly discernible.   ABU3189

"This material food was very simple, just enough for life, but that the spiritual food was varied and abundant. This material food would last for about five hours, and tomorrow we should again be hungry, but the spiritual food was eternal and would forever satisfy."  ABU2954

You must investigate the sun, not the qualities of the sun. If you investigate the sun you will find that the sun will always be perfect, but attention to the qualities of the sun may cause differences and argument. The sun must be investigated. That is the REALITY.  ABU2534

We have preserved him in the depths of the well around the Fire, concealed. God hath ordained that some wayfarers from among you should find him - those who were, in the Mother Book, with truth upon truth, foremost in responding to the Gate around the water, praised.  BB00002

This world is like unto an egg. As long as man lives within the shell of the egg he cannot soar heavenward. All the nostrils are afflicted with cold and they cannot inhale the sweet fragrances. All the eyes are blind and they cannot see the rays of the sun of Reality.   ABU1777

This is why sometimes it is expressed as the Supreme Paradise, sometimes as the Garden of Refuge, and sometimes as meadows, pools and groves. Otherwise the stations of nearness and reunion in the Most Glorious Kingdom are sanctified from all these aspects and illusions.  AB04098

And when they said: O our father! Send him with us tomorrow in truth, that he may dwell at the point of snow on the mountain of cold around the point of union, and at a point of fire from the mountain of justice around the water of separation, in truth and through truth.  BB00002

Surely, a man in a rose garden is to be happy, and now I am in a rose garden. On one side, trees most fruitful and delightful to see, and, on the other hand, I see my children who are flowers and most delightful to look at, and, assuredly, that give joy in such a place.   ABU1008

As an illustration of the Trinity, take light and illumination, there is the light-giver, the Sun (God) the light-receiver, and the ray of light connecting the two. Again there is the giver of the bounty, the receiver of the bounty and the bounty which is the Holy Spirit.  ABU2649

This is what I have called upon God, my Lord, in the language of symbols and mysteries, which shall be read by those who desire to drink the water of life from the hands of the All-Bountiful, whereby the beauty of reality is unveiled and the veils of metaphor are consumed.  BH01141

"Remove from thy bosom and show forth thy snow-white hand. Cast down the rod of certitude and destroy the snakes of doubts. Tear apart the sea of imaginings and march through with the army of knowledge. Transform the blood-river of suspicion into the wellspring of guidance."  AB01169

Make them signs of guidance and words of God-consciousness and goodly trees whose roots are firmly fixed and whose branches reach to heaven, adorned with the leaves of mysteries, beautified with the flowers of humility and lowliness, decorated with the fruits of divine verses  AB03609

you know the parable that Christ spoke of the sower and the seed; and so as in nature the good ground is made ready by rain and storm and ploughing and sunshine for the good seed to be sown, so is it in life, and the heart is made ready by all experience for the seed of life.   ABU1529

O thou who speaketh the meanings of the verses of revelation! In this mighty century when the Ancient Beauty hath appeared with manifest sovereignty, praise God that thou hast become detached from Pharaoh and the Copts and art numbered among the tribe of the All-Merciful Beauty.  AB10972

We have feeling through the five senses and intellectual qualities. We often express these qualities by a material symbol. For instance, my heart is on fire; my heart is broken; I am thirsting for knowledge, or hungry for love; and this explains the verses in Acts 2:2, 3 and 4.   ABU0601

See ye the fire of Moses' Tree,/See ye His hand that shineth white,/Behold Mount Sinai's crowning crest-- From that bright hand it drifteth down...See ye the burgeoning of "Ha",/The bright adornings of the "Ba",/Hear ye the flutist's piping strain-- From Baha's pen it drifteth down.  BH03230

Were We to say it is the sun, this would be true by virtue of My being, for it hath dawned from this praiseworthy horizon. And were We to say it is the heaven, this too would be true, for it hath been adorned with brilliant stars and luminous planets formed of the words of thy Lord   BH04484

The word Angel referred to in any of the Holy books does not refer to physical bodies descending from Heaven. Angel has two meanings. One is Divine Confirmation, which has been metaphorically called Angel; hence, when the word Angel is used, Divine Forces and Confirmations are meant.  ABU1401

And verily God intended by the sun Fatimah, and by the moon Muhammad, and by the stars the Imams of Truth, known in the Mother Book. God showed him above the Throne in the consciousness of the heart that the sun and moon and stars were bowing before him to God, the Truth, as witnessed.  BB00002

For mankind this world is like the womb. It is full of hardships, tribulations, calamities. An ignorant man may think it beautiful; but when he leaves it for spiritual realms he will understand it as it is-will learn that this is a world of darkness, while the world of God is illumined.  ABU0892

When the other side was unveiled it developed that the Greeks had devoted their time to polishing their side, and it was so perfectly done that the pictures from the opposite side were mirrored therein and depicted even more exquisitely. So we are to polish our mirrors in this great Day.  ABU2125

that which was as the gentle rain of mercy unto blessed [good] soil, as the breeze of providence unto the gardens of knowledge, as the sun of certitude unto the heaven of utterance, as the river of life unto the thirsty one, and as the fragrance of the All-Merciful unto the people of Baha  BH10853

However, the second meaning of sacrifice is this: Christ was like a seed, and this seed sacrificed its form so that the tree might grow and develop. Although the form of the seed was destroyed, its reality manifested itself, in perfect majesty and beauty, in the outward form of the tree.   AB00096

This nightingale of mystic meaning, she came from the sacred rose bush, invitation in hand. This luminous page, she came with light and splendor from the Midian of Spirit. That essence of the beauty of the True One, that jewel of the Glory of the True One-she came with the Most Great Sign.  BH02000

When in the embryonic world or condition, we do not realize the necessity of eyes and ears, but when we reach our present state, we then see the great need of them. Are not deaf or blind persons subject to our sympathy? And yet their conditions are but symbols of conditions in the next world.  ABU0217

The splitting of the moon has multiple meanings and is not limited to its outward meaning. Among these meanings is the dissolution of those souls who, before the rising of the Sun of Oneness from the Muhammadan horizon, had illumined people with the lights of their sciences, wisdom and knowledge  AB04243

Know then that what is meant in this verse by the fish are worldly affairs and material nature which exist in the world of appearance. That is, when they reached that sea they forgot all that pertained to them in the worlds of the kingdom and returned to their source and origin and fountainhead.  AB00012

As for the letter, it is the meaning which tells only of connection. When God desired to create the letters, He originated a word of four letters, and God named each letter: for the first, verb; for the second, noun; for the third, letter; and for the fourth, the hidden secret that sustains them.  BB00239

For all the evidences of Thy Lordship and the manifestations of Thy power have created the Tree of Unity, making its root the Point, its trunk the Letter Sin, its branches and fruits from its own letters, then its leaves from the manifestations of Thy names and the dawning-places of Thy examples.   BB00051

Thou hast invited me to America saying that "in that region and in that country there are many fragrant and multicolored flowers, likewise there are thorns and thistles but Abdul-Baha should not look upon the thistles of the desert. But He should hasten to that county for the sake of the flowers."  AB03149

I seemed to be standing within a great mosque, in the inmost shrine, facing the Qiblih, in the place of the Imam himself. I became aware that a large number of people were flocking into the mosque. More and yet more crowded in, taking their places in rows behind Me, until there was a vast multitude.  ABU3363

The sky of this terrestrial globe is always obscure and misty and covered with black, inky clouds. Now the thunder rolls and anon the lightening flashes. Now the hails fall and again the snow descends. Now there is a wild hurricane and then a tempestuous torrent rushing down from the Mountain-side.   ABU2196

Thus the water of baptism and the fire are one! It cannot mean that the 'water' spoken of is physical water, for it is the direct opposite of 'fire', and one destroys the other...Water is the cause of life, and when Christ speaks of water, He is symbolizing that which is the cause of Everlasting Life  ABU0984

Know thou that the Tree which was planted opposite the martyrdom-place of Husayn is the name of Ali which hath been combined with this resplendent, transcendent, mighty and inaccessible Name. And the Maiden that was suspended thereon is indeed the very Remembrance itself, its essence and its reality.   BH00367

Her movements tossed her hair, causing a few black droplets to be distilled on the embroidered silk upon the ground, bespeaking that resplendent darkness. These wondrous words were embellished by those few droplets, and the river of love was concealed beneath the dark depths of the spring of these words.  BH01911

For example, the Bab states that in the world of dreams He saw Moses son of Ja'far who gave Him a handful of sugarplums, which in Persian is called "nuql-i hil". When He ate it, these revelations came to Him. This refers back to the Center. Any decree you make about the circle refers back to the Center.   ABU1119

The clouds have gathered over the face of the heaven, and though they may come between the sun and its radiance upon all things, yet they pour forth that which causes the earth to bring forth its burden; soon shall it lay down its load and bring forth its treasures and whatever secrets are stored therein.   BH08920

Now, our condition is much the same as that dark Arab's. Outwardly we seem naked and alone, with no support or champion, stand single and alone. But in reality, invisible hosts of the Supreme Concourse are our aid, and whenever they see us attacked or threatened, They immediately rush forth to our assistance.   ABU1851

For what river is mightier than the river of divine forgiveness, and what tea is more fragrant, more ruby-colored, and sweeter than the cup of love for the Most Glorious Beauty? And which stream has a stronger current, flows more swiftly, and brings more grace and blessing than the river of the knowledge of God?  AB05679

The Tree is the Tree of Life, the Supreme Horizon, the Divine Lote-Tree, the Tree of Blessedness, and the Furthermost Sanctuary -- the station of Universal Reality, the Divine Essence, the Single Identity, and the Perfect Manifestation, which is distinguished by the mystery of existence and the Praiseworthy Light.  AB08363

O people of the East and of the West! Be ye fearful of God in the matter of Joseph, the Truth, that ye sell him not for a paltry price from your own selves, nor for a few pieces of silver from your wealth, lest ye be recorded as being among those who turned away from His remembrance, in truth, round about the Gate.  BB00002

And when five are added unto it, then it becometh light. Whosoever entered therein aforetime, he shall testify on that Day that he hath entered into the shadow of Muhammad, Whose Day all await. And God shall add unto it that five, the number of the Gate, and behold, it shall be light upon light upon light unto light.  BB00004

His Light is like a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp, the lamp, the lamp within a crystal above a crystal, the crystal, the crystal, well-nigh shining forth of itself even as doth shine the Morning Star. That is a blessed tree and an exalted word, whose light would well-nigh shine forth even though no fire touched it.  BB00598

And if thou hast an enemy, prostrate thyself at the end of night upon clay from Husayn's grave and say in thy prostration one hundred times: "O Subduer of the oppressors! O Subduer of the tyrants! Verily, such and such a person hath wronged me, so take from him my right," and God will exact vengeance from him forthwith.   BB00075

The street means the knowledge of God. The Tree of life means the Branches or teachers who give the Message to the people. Twelve manner of fruits means twelve different nations who will hereafter accept the Truth, yielding fruit every month means to be a great increase and never change their religion from cycle to cycle.  ABU0252

True religion can be compared to a flower: If you find it in a valley, in a garden, in a vase, it is always a flower. The spirit of religion may be likened to a man, and the laws and forms to the clothes he wears. These he may change, but it is of little import, for he is always living, though the outer garment be altered.  ABU2376

And all that thou findest mentioned of the Blast thou seest in the words There is no god but God - be thou of them that are endued with insight. Then He saith the Day when the quaking one shall quake, followed by the succeeding one. Then He saith the Day of Spreading, and verily the Spreading is from the kindling of hearts.  BB00506

Consider the trees yonder; as soon as they peep out of the earth they receive the bounty of the sun, the shower of mercy and the gift of breeze. Although the same bounties are being bestowed upon them when they bring forth leaves, blossoms and fruit, still, there is a great difference between this state and that of the former one.  ABU0476

The sea here symbolizes the Ulema - the great and learned people, like, for instance, Caiaphas. The rivers and fountains of water signify less influential men than the Ulema. The sun here means an Eastern potentate or king, because we call the sun the Eastern planet. The river Euphrates signifies the Turkish and Persian kingdoms.   ABU0360

By the Lord of the House! We shall in truth surely question you concerning the Striking One in the vicinity of the Striking One. Is he who is mentioned around the Fire other than the Gate? Nay! On the Day when the mountains become like carded wool, We shall make known to you the Cause of the Gate around the Fire, praised in truth upon truth.  BB00002

From her person there wafted a sweet savour laden with perfume. In her right hand she held a goblet of crimson wine and in her left a fragment of her broken heart. Her hand was tinged crimson with her lovers' blood. And she bore round cups of the wine of immortality. With the sword of her captivating charm she dealt blows at the necks of men.   BH01966

When a man is about to take poison, it is right to dash the cup from his hand even with extreme violence. It will inflict injury but at the same time save his life. There must be a law to prevent the wolves from destroying the lambs at such a period of religious history. That is why the Shepherd sanctioned such vigorous protection for the sheep.  ABU2396

Man must be like unto the light so that he may illumine the house in which he enters. Man must be like unto a fruit-bearing tree giving luscious fruits to every passer-by. Man must be like a fountain causing every thirsty one to drink from its salubrious water. Man must be like unto the purifying breeze imparting freshness and vigor to every soul.   ABU2312

Consider the candle and its light. If you protect it from outward elements through means such as a lantern or otherwise, then as long as the wax and wick remain, it is possible to preserve it from temporal vicissitudes. However, if it reaches its end - that is, if the wax and wick are exhausted - in this case the continuation of light is impossible.  BH01799

As for the crescent: It hath reference to the beginning of the religion of God which shall grow to be a full moon. As for the stars: They are types of the guides; for, verily, the star is a guide to people, even in the most gloomy darkness, on both land and sea. In former centuries, people were guided by the pole-star in whatever direction they went.  AB00418

The Tree of Life is full of blossoms, leaves and fruits!--shade thereof is a peace to the soul and a rest to the consciousness. Whosoever is under this Tree will certainly partake of fruit. But shade trees are many in the forest, which, though fresh and verdant, are, nevertheless, fruitless. This truth shall finally become clear and manifest unto thee.   AB03920

In the Gospel it is explicitly stated that in His first coming, although Christ was born to Mary, He Himself said that He came from heaven. Thus, the meaning of 'heaven' is the greatness of the Cause and eminence and might of the Manifestation of God Who spreads this divine Cause by His heavenly power and divine strength and not through material means.   ABU2982

This is why guidance appears blameworthy to such souls, just as the light of the world-illumining sun appears ominous to the bat, or as the fragrance of rose gardens appears to one with a blocked nose. The breath of Christ cannot bring such dead ones back to life, and the divine spring rain cannot make the salt marsh of their hearts bear fruit or effect.  ABU1816

"Hodhod," a very beautiful bird came one day to all the other birds and said, let us all gather together and make a pilgrimage to the Mountain of "Gaff" - where the King of birds "Seymorg" dwells on a lofty peak. (Now "Seymorg" is a fabulous, mythical bird in the ancient literature of Persia but it means literally 30 birds; "Sey" means 30, "Morg," bird.)  ABU0549

When He declared that He had come from Heaven, it is clear that He did not mean the blue firmament but that He spoke of the Heaven of the Kingdom of God, and that from this Heaven He descended upon the clouds. As clouds are obstacles to the shining of the sun, so the clouds of the world of humanity hid from the eyes of men the radiance of the Divinity of Christ.  ABU0735

The Primal Point, after traversing the realms of the Kingdom, appeared adorned with the seal of finality, and from its composition diverse forms became manifest, culminating in the Most Great Form. And from the different forms that were brought into being through the marriage of the Single Point, that which pertained to the Treasury remained in its own dwellings.   BH10654

Now this is a symbol, and this word extended after the time of Christ. What is the symbol? Just as the sheep sacrificed its life, likewise this natural state of man, which is the animalistic state, must be sacrificed. How should it be sacrificed? The vices of the animalistic state of man must be entirely annihilated, and he must be characterized with divine virtues.   ABU1014

The Altar of Sacrifice is the living heart of man and not a few pieces of dead stones. The fire that came down from heaven was no other than the Fire of the Love of God descending from the heaven of the Divine Will; the bullocks are human and carnal desires and appetites which are entirely burned away by this Ideal Fire, leaving the spiritual Altar, cleansed and pure.  ABU2680

The spiritual rose hath appeared in the divine Ridvan at the advent of the spring of inner meanings, yet the outward nightingales remain deprived. The rose proclaimeth: "O nightingales! I am your Beloved, and I have appeared in the fullness of My hue and fragrant breath, and in My transcendent grace and freshness. Consort ye with the Friend and flee not from the Beloved."  BH01361

Sarvistan, praise be to God, has become a rose garden, and through the flowers and fragrant herbs of the knowledge of God has become gardens of divine realities and meanings. It is hoped that those cypress trees will grow and develop day by day, and in the utmost grace and freshness will be stirred and moved by the bounty of the cloud of divine favor in the stream of truth.   AB06221

As to the rainbow, this is the Bow of the Divine Covenant and the Testament of the All-Merciful. From this Bow stream forth the lights of the Kingdom and the celestial rays. This Bow of the Covenant is the sign of the lifting of divine wrath from all creation, and the cause of happiness, comfort, universal peace, the unity of humankind, and the oneness of the world of humanity.  AB09888

The sun of truth rises on the horizon of divine mercy and sends forth its rays on all. This is the beginning of the spring. When the sun appears at the equinox it causes a movement in all living things. The mineral world is set in motion, plants begin to sprout, the desert is changed into a prairie, trees bud and every living thing responds, including the bodies of animals and men.  ABU0881

There are two kinds of sticks which we can imagine to be put aside for the fire. One is a damp stick, the other is of aloe (a very dry kind of wood). When contact with the fire the damp stick will not ignite but the other is dry and ready to be ignited at once. So some people have the capacity to receive the light of God, others are full of earthliness (dampness) and cannot receive it.  ABU1768

Christ's rod and His sword were His word. Concerning the promulgation of the law of Moses-He did spread the essence of that law. As to the wolf and the lamb - these were the people of the Fast and the West who, being antagonistic to one another, were like wolves and lambs. Through Christ all of them were gathered under the protection of the Gospel and received light from the same book.  ABU0459

Through their ignorance of these meanings people have always remained veiled from the manifestations of the bounties of Him Who is the Causer of Causes. Although in the divine scriptures mention is made of a heaven and an earth other than the physical heaven and earth, yet they have interpreted these signs literally and have deprived themselves of spiritual worlds and divine knowledge.   ABU2981

And the spots on this moon of heaven corresponded to the moon of authority. Those possessed of understanding know that what is there cannot be known except by what is here, and these described spots are indeed a station of the answer. It is what God has written by His hands of power on the face of the two moons: "There is no God but God, Muhammad is God's Messenger, Ali is God's Friend."  BB00072

By the Fig alludeth to Mount Tina and by the Olive to Mount Zayta, which are situated on either side of Jerusalem. Both of these blessed mounts are in the Holy Land, for they are places the exalted Prophets of God have used and received inspiration therein, and have been illumined with the effulgent lights of the Spirit. Thus have these mounts become the dayspring of God's boundless grace.  AB00447

That leaf is an explanation of the Word from the Most Exalted Word - may my spirit be His sacrifice. The people of the Gate know through that Exposition all its expressions - may my spirit be a sacrifice for the mystery of the Exposition in their realities. Whoso desires explanation of their words has taken but a drop from that Most Great Water and has colored all with the color of that leaf.  BB00237

when we listen to a most beautiful song, we must forget inferior music - when a lover of music has listened to the entrancing notes of a great master, his love of music will no longer be satisfied with the playing of the pupil... Is it fitting that we turn our backs on the Sun and hold to the flickering dim light of a candle? Is it right to forget the boundless sea to run after a little brook?  ABU0206

Though the stars of heaven are brilliant and shining, yet at times they are at their zenith, at times at their nadir, at times in auspicious positions, and at times caught in inauspicious stations. However, the stars in the ascendant of the love of God and the luminous orbs rising from the horizon of the knowledge of God are stars that rise and shine in heavens other than the visible firmament  AB10054

This is a symbol, just as the circumambulation of the Ka'bah must be performed at a specified time and in a specified place where they must remove their garments from their body at once. This is a metaphor meaning that when a person intends to visit the Ka'bah, they must completely cast off their old garment, which represents their former characteristics, and don the garment of sanctification.  ABU3121

Every one of you is aware that the tree has a special time for its leaves to come out, another for its flowers, and another for its fruits; but it may happen that icy weather and intense cold may prevail for a while and prevent the Tree from blossoming in due time. Do you think that if all the people in the world should unite that they can stop the coming of the Spring! No, it must perforce come!   ABU0696

This is the Point from which the knowledge of the former and the latter generations hath been unfolded. And the denizens of the Kingdom intoned: "Rejoice! This is the immortal Youth, come with a mighty knowledge." Upon His face was a veil woven by the fingers of might and power. Upon His brow there shone a beauteous crown, which cast its splendour upon all who are in heaven and all who are on earth.   BH00729

And now, with fixed gaze and steady wings enter thou the way of certitude and truth. Say: It is God; then leave them to entertain themselves with their cavilings. Thus, wilt thou be accounted of those companions of whom He saith: They that say 'Our Lord is God,' and continue steadfast in His way, upon them, verily, shall the angels descend. Then shalt thou witness all these mysteries with thine own eyes.  BH00002

Wherefore, be thou like unto that bird of the bowers of faithfulness and, even as Shaykh Muhammad Hasan, become a point that hath turned unto Him. Perchance like unto the messenger of the Sheba of certitude thou mayest be crowned with the diadem of bounty and invested with honour, become honey-tongued even as the parrots of heavenly India, and discern among souls even as thou dost separate wheat from tares.  AB07665

All religions are written symbolically. This is the only way in which Truth can be written to withstand time and its changes. Languages change, the meaning of words is lost; for these are but the expressions of periods. Symbols never change, since they are the expressions of man's spirit. The realities encased in them are handed down as long as the symbols are preserved. These realities the spirit reawakens.  ABU1462

Rather, by this "ram ram" We mean that which increases love for God and love for His chosen ones and love for His friends, and which kindles in hearts the fire of God and His love, then His glory and His grandeur. For it is of that wine which, should anyone drink a drop thereof, would draw him to the precincts of holiness and nearness and bring him to the presence of God, the King, the Mighty, the Beautiful.   BH04606

By 'that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God' is meant the holy Law of God, and this is set forth in many Tablets and still to be read in the Scriptures of the Prophets of the past: for instance, that Jerusalem was seen going out into the wilderness. The meaning of the passage is that this heavenly Jerusalem hath twelve gates, through which the blessed enter into the City of God.   AB00342

The sword he carried was the sword of his tongue, with which he divided the good from the evil, the true from the false, the faithful from the unfaithful and the light from the darkness. His word was indeed a sharp sword! The throne upon which he sat is the Eternal Throne from which Christ reigns forever, a heavenly throne, not an earthly one, for the things of earth pass away but heavenly things pass not away.  ABU0473

The Holy Books have their special terminologies which must be known and understood. Physicians have their own peculiar terms; architects, philosophers have their characteristic expressions; poets have their phrases; and scientists, their nomenclature. In the scripture we read that Zion is dancing. It is evident that this has other than literal interpretation. The meaning is that the people of Zion shall rejoice.  ABU0316

The fragrant breath of a physical rose-garden imparteth untold joy unto the dwellers of the material world, imbuing the downhearted with a fresh spirit. It dispelleth the darkness of the hearts, and granteth deliverance from the lethargy of existence. It is clear therefore what effect must be exerted by the spiritual breezes blowing from the garden of compassionate hearts, and from the rose-bower of Divine love.  AB04415

The heavenly Farmer came and cleared the ground from thorns and thistles. He harrowed the field and prepared it for plantation. With the utmost trials, sufferings, hardships and vicissitudes he toiled on till the land was cleared of all spines and underbushes. The ground was furrowed deep; pure seeds were sown and young trees planted;- so that in time there may appear a waving field of wheat and a fruitful garden.  ABU0286

The 'Heaven' of Christ is that invisible world which is beyond the sight and comprehension of mere man. It is the spiritual condition. Therefore, the 'Heaven' of Christ is the Will of God. The Sun of that Heaven will never set. In it the Moon and Stars are always shining. It is the limitless Kingdom of God. It is sanctified from all place. Christ is always there. There Elijah and the Holy Prophets live eternally.   ABU1278

Thou hast created naught in existence save two trees: the Tree of Negation and the Tree of Affirmation. Thou hast made Negation the manifestation of "no god" and Affirmation the manifestation of "but God." Thou hast made Negation Thy fire for those who enter therein, and Affirmation Thy paradise for those who enter therein. The former ever descendeth to the depths below, while the latter ascendeth to the heights above.   BB00180

Now the things of the kingdom cannot be perceived by the senses and for this reason Christ taught the people always by means of parables and illustrations, because it is only through these outward signs and by comparison that the soul here receives understanding. For this reason Moses and all the prophets gave their teachings by material objects, that through the outward forms the soul might receive the inward knowledge.  ABU1576

By this bread is meant the heavenly sustenance of divine perfections. In other words, whoso partakes of this sustenance--that is, whoso acquires the outpouring grace of God, draws illumination from His light, and obtains his portion of the perfections of Christ--will attain everlasting life. What is meant by blood, likewise, is the spirit of life, which consists in divine perfections, heavenly splendours, and eternal grace.  AB00329

As for the symbol of the cross, appointed in former times: Know verily, that the cross form is a wonderful figure and consists of two right lines placed crosswise-one perpendicular to the other--and this figure exists in all things. Meditate upon these words and pay attention to the tissue in all existing substances, either plant, animal or man, and thou wilt see that they all are formed of the cross figure or two crosswise lines.  AB00418

"I will take thee through its broad avenues shaded by verdant, never-fading trees. I will unfold before thy vision, the most heavenly panorama, the like of which thou hast never seen. I will, little by little teach thee the secrets of the ever-changing hues of its flowers, the murmuring of its breezes and the divine notes of its music. I will take thee through its imperial palaces and will show to thee the most wonderful scenes."  ABU0976

Water symbolizes the knowledge of God which gives eternal life, because all forms of life had their beginning in the water. Fire is the symbol of love, and the baptism by fire means the love of God which descends in the hearts that are turned unto him! Now as fire is used to symbolize love, be sure that water is used also as a symbol, for would it be possible for one to be put into the fire as one is put into the water for baptism?  ABU1107

The Burning Bush exclaimeth with the tongue of "I, verily, am God." Happy art thou who hast hearkened unto its melodies. The Lamp of God shineth resplendent and hath set ablaze the candles of the hearts of men with its light. The Phoenix of Holiness casteth its shadow upon the creation. The Tree of detachment hath been planted on this sacred soil through the Hand of the Best-Beloved and hath cast its shadow upon the paradise of holiness.  BH01585

Know thou that the outward station of this Word among the stars and heavenly bodies is that of the sun; among letters and words it representeth the right pillar; among the ranks of divine action it representeth the Will; among the elements it representeth heat; among the seasons, summer; among measurements, length; in man's outer form it representeth sight, for the station of sight is that of fire; in man's inner being it representeth the heart.  BH00073

Is there any child who, after being born into the world, desires to return to the womb? Is there any man who, having been freed from prison, desires to be again imprisoned? Is there any bird which, after it has escaped from the cage, will desire to return to it? Not unless it is lame- has broken a wing and cannot fly-will it prefer the cage to the heavens; neither will a man, unless he be imperfect or undeveloped, be attached to material things.  ABU0892

For instance, we might say that the leopard and the kid, the lion and the calf, the sucking child and the asp, represent the various nations, the hostile peoples and contending kindreds of the earth who in their opposition and enmity were even as the wolf and the lamb, and who through the breezes of the messianic Spirit came to be endowed with the spirit of unity and fellowship, were quickened to life, and associated intimately one with another.   AB00091

This is why in every age and century when the Invisible Essence and the Eternal Being hath willed to make manifest and cause to flow that true River and real Ocean through a new temple and fresh garment, all those edifices of existence and palaces of deluded souls were drowned and destroyed. In the depths of thirst and the extremity of their parching, they were submerged and annihilated, never realizing enough to take even a single draught thereof.   BH00394

The olive tree is a symbol of peace and reconciliation, and the olive its fruit and result. God willing, thou shalt succeed in bearing the sweet fruit of peace and tranquility, and upon the heavenly table that is prepared and present before Abdul-Baha, thou shalt place a bouquet from the garden of the Abha Paradise - that is to say, God willing, thou shalt achieve such perfections which, like a bouquet of flowers, thou shalt present to this heavenly feast.  AB10922

Then when they melted and moved, persisted and accumulated, soared and became upright, the letter Kaf revolved and connected to the letter Nun. Thereupon they were struck down by the majesty of their Lord, prostrated themselves before the grandeur of their Creator, spoke in praise of their Originator, submitted to the countenance of their Lord, turned in repentance for what their hands had wrought before the face of their Designer, regretted, sought forgiveness   BB00045

They call the region of Caucasia Mount Qaf, and it is said that Mount Qaf is the nest and abode of the well-known Simurgh. By Simurgh is not meant a bird with thick plumage, but in the estimation of those who have been awakened and possess divine knowledge it is evident and manifest that the divine Simurgh is the Word of God and the true Phoenix that adorneth the horizon of divine favour like unto the peacock of the most sublime heaven with its blessed feathers.  AB05365

Consider, for example, the sun: its transit from one zodiacal sign to the next occurreth within a short period of time, yet only after a long period doth it attain the plenitude of its resplendency, its heat and glory, in the sign of Leo. It must first complete one full revolution through the other constellations before it will enter the sign of Leo again, to blaze out in its full splendor. In its other stations, it revealeth not the fullness of its heat and light.  AB01673

The cave is the Cause of God, that cave is the Divine Cause, it is a refuge. The Cause of God is likewise the refuge of all beings, the cave of security for the people of the world. The cave mentioned is the Cave of God's Cause - it is the divine shelter. The Cause of God is the refuge of all peoples, the sanctuary of safety for all the inhabitants of the world. The sun referred to is the Sun of Reality, under whose shade the Cause of God was established and founded.  ABU0175

By this is meant that the bounty of God consists of the water of Life which, like a river, flows from the right side of the Almighty, and the promised Lamb of God. Know thou of a certainty that in the world of existence there are two kinds of trees: First, the Tree of Affirmation, which is the blessed tree, or the Tree of Life. This was the Tree upon which the Fire became manifest to Moses on Mount Sinai, and that was the reality of the manifestations of Divine Appearance.  AB03556

Like the trees of the paradise of oneness, make firm your roots in the earth of sanctification and assurance, and like the trees of the divine paradise, raise your branches to the canopy of heaven. Be in a state of movement and rustling from the winds of divine favor, and from the outpourings of the cloud of oneness be full of leaves, blossoms and delicate fruits. Let each one of you be like a brilliant star in the Cause of God, and a radiant lamp and a rain-shedding cloud   AB01718

Siyyid Kazim also spoke of triliterals and quadriliterals. A triliteral is a word comprising three letters, such as "'Ali", and a quadriliteral is a word comprising four, such as "Muhammad". When these two are combined it makes "'Ali-Muhammad", which is the blessed name of the Bab. In numerous passages of the same book he explicitly refers to the Bab and extols Him with boundless laudations and attributes, saying that the mysteries of all that has been and all that shall be are found in Him.  AB00046

Regarding Paradise, which Muhammad described - these are spiritual realities expressed in physical forms and images, for at that time souls were not capable of comprehending spiritual meanings. It is like Christ saying "I will not drink of this fruit of the vine until I drink it new in my Father's Kingdom." Now it is clear that Christ did not mean this grape, but rather a spiritual state and divine perfection which He expressed as grape. All that was revealed in the Quran is of this nature.   AB00075

In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful! All praise be to God Who hath established the Throne upon the water and air above the water, and separated between them through the letter Alif. Then He cleft the atmosphere from the realm of the primordial cloud between them, preserving them through the letter Ha, and brought forth from this air the Tree of Sinai, and caused it to hover above the Sea of Glory for the Dawning-Place of the Light of Baha in the innermost crimson chambers  BB00084

Consider how unmistakably "the first heaven" and "the first earth" refer to the outward aspects of the former religion. For it is said that "the first heaven and earth were passed away; and there was no more sea." That is, the earth is the arena of the last judgment, and in this arena there will be no more sea, meaning that the law and teachings of God will have spread throughout the earth, all mankind will have embraced His Cause, and the earth will have been entirely peopled by the faithful.   AB00061

In this story of our Lord Jesus the Sea of Tiberias represents the Ocean of Creation--the two shores represent earthly truth and spiritual truth. The boat (or ark) stands for the arguments and reasons by which man acquires knowledge and in this boat the disciples of Jesus were tossed in the waves of the Ocean of Creation. The shoes which Jesus left in order to come to them walking on the water, represents earthly knowledge. The haven and shore to which He guided them represented spiritual knowledge.   ABU0484

As Adam is the Father of humanity and it means the real man, therefore the product of the number of the Bab and Baha is equal to the number of Adam. There is no great difference between the Greatest Name and the name of Adam. In their nature they are one. Also, 1 plus 2= 3; 3 plus 3 = 6; 6 plus 4= 10; 10 plus 5 = 15; 15 is the number of Eve. By the physical marriage of Adam and Eve the whole race originated, and by the appearance of the Manifestation and the Bab, the Spiritual Generation originated.   ABU0872

They say that Jamshid possessed a world-reflecting cup, and some maintain it was a goblet adorned with precious jewels. When one drank from that cup, like a whale in the ocean would one surge and cry out from the joy of its wine. Although that cup brought joy and gladness and was the cause of delight and bliss, yet its exhilaration lasted but a moment and its ocean was but a dewdrop. This divine cup, however, is filled to overflowing with the wine of inner meanings, and its exhilaration endureth forever.  AB09228

For in the Gospel it is said that every soul must be baptized with water and spirit, and elsewhere it states one must be baptized with fire and spirit. And now it must be understood that by water is meant the water of life, and by spirit is meant the Holy Spirit, and by fire is meant the fire of the love of God. The meaning is that one must be baptized by the water of life, the Holy Spirit, and the fire of the love of God, so that through the attainment of these three stations divine nearness may be achieved.  ABU0095

The river of Egypt being changed into blood, signifies that for the Egyptians it was very difficult for them to take in and to live by the Religion of God, just as it would have been impossible for them to drink blood. But for the Jews this religion was as the Water of Life. The thick darkness signifies the darkness of error which surrounded Pharaoh's people. The mosquitoes, frogs, and all signify spiritual hardships and trials. The Plague signifies a spiritual disease; the thunder and hail show the anger of God.  ABU1461

It is said that Jam possessed a cup in his hand that revealed the world and was set with jewels. Every morning he would gaze into that goblet like a mirror and unveil the mysteries of the realm. This is a tale and tradition, a story and discourse of historians. But if thou desirest the world-revealing cup, it is the pure heart wherein the mystery of the Self-Sufficing Lord appears manifest and evident in that brilliant mirror. That cup is adorned with the gems of the love of God, therefore it is resplendent and luminous.  AB08678

It is said that Jam possessed a cup in his hand which showed the world and was adorned with jewels. Every morning he would gaze into that chalice as into a mirror and uncover the mysteries of the realm. This is a tale and tradition, a story and discourse of historians. But if you desire a world-revealing cup, it is the pure heart wherein the mystery of the Self-Sufficient Lord appears and becomes manifest in that luminous mirror. That cup is adorned with the gems of the love of God, therefore it is brilliant and radiant.  AB08678

The mirror's glory lies in the sun's rays being reflected in it, and this reflection exists within it and appears from it so long as no veils of self and desire intervene between it and its illuminator. Thus is the matter, if you be of those who perceive. After becoming veiled, it can never tell of the sun's sovereignty, and God's lights, grace, providence and bounty are cut off from it. This comes from itself, for it has placed between itself and the sun that which has deprived it of the lights of God, the Mighty, the Merciful.  BH01756

By this reed is meant the Perfect Man, and the reason for His being likened to a reed is that when the latter is entirely freed and emptied of its pith, it becomes capable of producing wondrous melodies. Moreover, these songs and airs proceed not from the reed itself but from the player who blows into it. In the same way, the sanctified heart of that blessed Being is free and empty of all save God, is averse to and exempt from attachment to every selfish inclination, and is intimately acquainted with the breath of the Divine Spirit.  AB00019

Inevitably every surging sea must have foam and every pure gold must be tested in fire. Have you ever seen a surging ocean without foam, or pure gold untested by the flame? This is clearly stated in the Book: We send down water from the sky, and the valleys flow according to their measure, and the flood beareth along a swelling foam... And from that which they heat in the fire (like pure gold)... there ariseth a foam like unto it... As for the foam, it passeth away as scum, while that which is of benefit to mankind remaineth on the earth.  AB00838

After Jesus was baptized He said, John has baptized you with water but I shall baptize you with the spirit. Water symbolizes the knowledge of God which give eternal life--because all forms of life and their beginning in water. Fire is the symbol of love and the baptism by fire means the love of God which descends into the hearts that are turned unto Him. Now, as the Fire if the symbol of love, be sure that the water is used also as a symbol, for, would it be possible for one to be put into the fire as on is put into the water (for baptism)?   ABU2605

When the sun rises, no matter from what dawning point on the horizon it appears -- northeast, east, southeast -- the haze and mists disperse, and we have clear vision of its glory mounting to the zenith. Similarly, the nations have been directed to the dawning points of the Sun of Reality, each to a particular rising place from which the light of religion has become manifest; but after a time the dawning point has become the object of worship instead of the Sun itself, which is ever one Sun and stationary in the heavens of the divine Will.   ABU0733

O ye dwellers in the realms of the mystic letters in the clouds of heaven! Hearken unto the warbling of the Bird of Servitude [seated upon the crimson throne], even as the Dove of Eternity doth trill upon the Throne of the Divine Realm with verses of splendor, and the Bird of Eternity singeth upon the Seat of Majesty at the White Point, and the Maid of Beauty standeth revealed in chambers of ruby to the right of the Tree of Divine Decree, and the Light of the Mystic Dove gleameth in the chambers of the Divine Essence with ornaments of glory.  BH00181

But in the Qur'an it is said: We have sent down water from heaven, and the channels flow, each according to its measure, and the flood beareth along a swelling foam. Then it continues: As for the foam, it passeth away as scum, while that which is useful to mankind remaineth in the earth. This means that when the flood rises, foam appears, but the foam vanishes while that which is beneficial, namely the water, remains. In other words, the Cause of God is like the sea, and other souls are like the foam. The sea endures while the foam perishes.  AB04087

The messenger of Joseph was the bearer of his garment, and this garment was an inarticulate body. Nevertheless, from the garment, Jacob inhaled the sweet fragrance of Joseph from a long distance, and by its touch was endowed with sight. I beseech God that thou mayest become an eloquently-speaking garment, in order to spread the fragrance of the Love of God; that from thee the yearning Jacobs may inhale the vitalizing fragrance of the Garment of the Divine Joseph; and that thou mayest endow, open, and give sight to the eyes of the longing ones.  AB03136

Then came forth the Maiden who, from time immemorial, had been concealed in the pavilion of sanctity and protection and glory, and in the tabernacle of purity and might and majesty. And there was inscribed upon her luminous brow, with crimson ink by the Most Exalted Pen: "By God! This is a Maiden whom none but God, the Most Exalted, the Most High, hath ever known, and God hath purified the hem of her sanctity from the knowledge of the Concourse of Names in the empire of eternity, and her beauty from the eyes of all who dwell in the kingdom of creation."   BH00454

He speaks of elevated heavens in the Qur'an with their suns, moons and stars, which are the divines, mystics, laws and ordinances - all established by the Alif between two Waws. And concerning His words "the secret of inversion for the symbol of the chief," this refers to the tradition "He maketh their highest to be their lowest, and their lowest to be their highest." Observe how the chiefs who occupied the highest station descended to the lowest station - this is the secret of inversion, and this inversion appeared from the symbols and intimations of the Chief.  BH01252

O believers! Fear God, lest ye sell him for a counted price apart from the pure ocean of Divine Unity - and God is aware of what ye do. Know ye, O servants of God, in truth and by truth, that if ye look upon him with other than the eyes of your hearts, ye have purchased him for a paltry price - a few counted dirhams - and God will not judge in your favor in the Book through the knowledge of the Remembrance, for ye have not entered upon the mystery of the heart. Now ye come to Us with his shirt stained with false blood, but We say: Nay, your souls have beguiled you into something.  BB00002

When thou dost carefully consider its manifestations, at times thou shalt find it to be the blessed earth that causeth to grow the sweet herbs of sanctification, the trees of divine transcendence, the flowers of unity, and the roses of divine uniqueness. At every moment it bringeth forth new effects that confound minds and bewilder souls. At times thou shalt find it to be the holy, pure water that descendeth from heaven, causing to flow the valleys of abstract realities freed from limited determinations and essences that unveil the glorious sanctities and rend asunder the veils of self.  AB00028

Upon the shore of this Ocean hath been created a wilderness whose beginning and end none hath encompassed, wherein the call of God hath been raised from every direction. No Prophet or Messenger hath passed by it except that the divine fragrances seized him in this Valley. And when they reached the Most Glorious Dome, which was created from the Light of the Divine Essence in the midst of this Valley, they fell prostrate upon their faces in the dust in humility before this Beauty Who hath appeared in truth in this Garment, from which the sincere ones inhale the fragrance of the All-Merciful.  BH00155

These verses of the Torah have therefore numerous meanings. We will explain one of them and will say that by Adam is meant the spirit of Adam and by Eve is meant His self. For in certain passages of the sacred scriptures where women are mentioned, the intended meaning is the human self. By the tree of good and evil is meant the material world, for the heavenly realm of the spirit is pure goodness and absolute radiance, but in the material world light and darkness, good and evil, and all manner of opposing realities are to be found. The meaning of the serpent is attachment to the material world.   AB00100

O Maid of Baha! Step forth from the court of eternity, but let not thy most pure gaze linger upon the faces of mortal men. I swear by the one true God! None save them that are possessed of true insight can ever hope to behold thee in this most sublime vision. Leave the kingdom of names on thy right and the dominion of attributes on thy left, and shine forth by My leave above the horizon of Mine inviolable protection, divested of all that hath been created in the realm of Revelation and shorn of all that hath appeared in the kingdom of creation, that thou mayest manifest the beauteous image of God in all regions.   BH00334

The Caucasus is Mount Qaf in the Persian tongue. In olden times, according to the belief of the people of the world, Mount Qaf was the nest and abode of the Simurgh of grace. Whatever the case may be, it is a good omen, and they used to say that the dwelling place of that mighty bird was the Orient of glory. The truth of this saying might be that the Simurgh was an illustrious personage whose nest and dwelling place was the Caucasian clime, and through divine favors was most dignified and steadfast--that is to say, was a mighty fortress preserved and protected from the deficiencies and base qualities of human souls.  AB12275

In reality all of these prophetic signs did come to pass, that is to say, the inner significances appeared, but not in an outward and literal sense. For instance, it was prophesied that the promised one should come from a place unknown. So the Jews said of Christ: "We know this person. He is from Nazareth. We know his house; whereas the promised one is to come from a place unknown." In truth Christ did come from a place unknown -- for his reality -- the Christ reality -- came in the body of Jesus. Though the body of Jesus came from Nazareth, yet the Christianity -- the spirit of Christ, -- being divine, was placeless.  ABU0327

The physical, for the letter Dal is among the darkened letters and is the letter of finitude and the sign of limitation in the Muhammadan station - may God's peace be upon him and his family - which indicates his primary station and speaks of the self-subsistence of his essence and the manifestation of his being. And there exists not in contingent reality any name whose final manifestation testifies to itself as does the name Muhammad - may God's peace be upon him and his family - for that darkened letter which appears at the end of his noble name represents the earthly element, that it might be exalted above the luminous letters in others.  BB00014

Thus was the Most Great Book completed, and by it were adorned all who are in earth and heaven, that the Daysprings of negation might witness at the station of annihilation what the Tree of Divine decree hath witnessed in the luminous spot, and might turn towards the Dawning-Place of the Call at the station of evanescence - that place wherein the Most Exalted Word donned the crimson robe in the kingdom of creation, and that the people of the Kingdom might hear the melodies of the leaves suspended upon the Tree beyond which there is no passing, in remembrance of this Remembrance Who hath appeared with the standards of verses to all who are in the heavens and the earth.  BH11761

Say: Those who possess white diamonds and engrave thereon God is Most Glorious are like unto them who glorify God, their Lord, the Merciful, and who tire not. Say: Those who possess yellow topaz and engrave thereon God is Most Exalted are like unto them who give thanks unto God, their Lord, the Merciful, at all times and glorify Him with praise. And those who possess green emeralds and engrave thereon God is Most Powerful shall be rewarded on the Day of Resurrection like unto them who unite with God at all times and weary not. Say: Those who possess red rubies and engrave thereon God is Most Enduring shall be rewarded on the Day of Resurrection like unto them who magnify God at all times and tire not.  BB00004

Say: There existeth naught smaller than the Point in all that ye write, yet God hath created it upon four pillars. Thus doth God create all things, would ye but reflect. Say: The first pillar remembereth its Lord, declaring: God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him, the Lord of all worlds. Say: The other pillar testifieth unto God, its Lord, then declareth: Muhammad is the Messenger of God, sent from His presence unto all the worlds. And the third pillar remembereth its Lord, saying: They who are witnesses from God's presence, these are the pure Imams. And the fourth pillar remembereth its Lord, saying: They who are the gates of guidance after their Imams, these are they who are hidden.  BB00004

And as for the woman who will flee into the wilderness, mentioned in the twelfth chapter of the Book of Revelation - "And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet" - this woman signifieth the Law of God, for in the terminology of the Holy Books, it is a metaphor for the Law of God, which is here expressed as a woman. And the two luminaries, the sun and moon - that is, the Turkish and Persian kingdoms - are under the shadow of the Law of God. The sun is the emblem of the Persian state, and the moon, being a crescent, is the emblem of the Turkish state. And the twelve crowns are the twelve Imams who, like the apostles, supported the Religion of God.   AB00092

Accordingly, when God, glorified and exalted be He, desired to explain the magnificent bounties and abundant favors ordained in His wondrous paradise and beauteous gardens in the kingdom of His holiness and the seat of His intimate companionship, He cast those spiritual realities and divine intellectual essences into molds of forms such as houris, palaces, flowers, rivers, pools, gardens, and groves, that listeners might become aware of those abundant bounties and multiplying favors, of eternal happiness and holy blessed life in the next world, and of divine knowledge and spiritual delights in this first life. This is the wisdom of what God hath sent down in the Qur'an through the breath of the All-Merciful.  AB00258

That which was revealed in the first year is the fruits of the Paradise of the Divine Identity, pertaining to Muhammad (peace be upon Him), and His star pertaineth to the land of Persia, wherein it must be recorded in a book containing the four rivers of divine manifestation. That which was revealed in the second year is the fruits of the Tree of Divinity, pertaining to Ali (peace be upon Him), and His star pertaineth to the land of Iraq, to be written in a book containing the four stations of creation, sustenance, death and life. That which was revealed in the third year is the fruits of the Paradise of Oneness, pertaining to Fatima (peace be upon Her), and Her star pertaineth to the land of Azerbaijan, wherein it must be recorded in a book containing the four stations.  BB00268

Just think of the lives of these soldiers whose mothers have reared them with love and solicitude. They are worse than penal prisons and have to work very hard all day. The other day the Secretary of the Consul called on me and spoke in a plaintive tone:- "I have paid the government one hundred pounds to free my son from all military burdens, still they have taken him and enrolled him amongst the recruits. My son has been brought up in the school and has never had any drillings. Now he is afflicted with all the rigid and exacting disciplines of the soldiers life and it seems to me there is no way to his freedom. My son with his companions were made to run from Nazareth to Acca with only one stop of one hour; They had to run many hours in the heat of the sun. As a result of this extraordinary exertion he is fallen sick and I have now come to you to intercede for him before the commander, perhaps they will give him a lighter work which may be more in accord with his previous training."  ABU1640

But when you undertake to express these intelligible realities, you have no recourse but to cast them in the mould of the sensible, for outwardly there is nothing beyond the sensible. Thus, when you wish to express the reality of the spirit and its conditions and degrees, you are obliged to describe them in terms of sensible things, since outwardly there exists nothing but the sensible. For example, grief and happiness are intelligible things, but when you wish to express these spiritual conditions you say, My heart became heavy, or My heart was uplifted, although one's heart is not literally made heavy or lifted up. Rather, it is a spiritual or intelligible condition, the expression of which requires the use of sensible terms. Another example is when you say, So-and-so has greatly advanced, although he has remained in the same place, or So-and-so has a high position, whereas, like everyone else, he continues to walk upon the earth. This elevation and advancement are spiritual conditions and intelligible realities, but to express them you must use sensible terms, since outwardly there is nothing beyond the sensible.  AB00259
