
When the light of the lamp shines through glass, its surroundings become illumined.   AB03704

Send down upon him, O my God, a mercy from Thy presence and a light from Thy nearness.  BH10703

Grant me white diamonds concealed, then yellow topaz hidden, then green emeralds arranged, then red rubies engraved  BB00004

In addition, there is a saying in the East by which the color white symbolizes divine will; red, divine decree and martyrdom; green, predestination; and yellow, execution of the decree. ABU3148

Glorified be He in Whose grasp is the dominion of the lights of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them!  BB00004

Light is the manifestor of all things, for were it not for light, all things would remain hidden behind the veil of darkness  AB10837

All the youths of Paradise, without exception, are arrayed in silk of emerald hue before the crimson, and yellow after white.  BB00004

O Misbah! In the blessed verse He says that when the luminosity of the lamp, the delicacy of the glass, and the purity of the niche combine, light upon light results: "The likeness of His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp in a glass, the glass as it were a glittering star, lit from a blessed tree, neither of the east nor of the west, whose oil would almost glow forth though no fire touched it - light upon light." I hope that you may become thus.  AB09498

Be thou as a candle among the friends and burn away the veils of the people of possibility with the flame of love for the Beauty of the All-Merciful.   AB07589

Thus have We lit the lamp of utterance in the niche of creation. Blessed is he who hath been illumined by its light, and woe unto them that remain far distant.   BH08356

The life-giving spring from that best religion will clothe the world in a garment of rose and hyacinth and jasmine and violet and wild rose and leaf and blossom.  AB05845

And when five are added unto it, then it becometh light... and behold, it shall be light upon light upon light unto light. God guideth unto His light whom He willeth  BB00004

...in every wing appeareth a color from the colors of divine decree and in every fold a row manifesting a light from the lights of the glory of the Lord of creation...   BB00155

the luminous rays of that divine Orb have fallen upon the crowns of those divine friends, and its heat has influenced the world of heart and soul, making them divine, merciful and illumined  AB12058

Although white is conspicuous, yet seven colours are hidden and concealed therein. Therefore whiteness and blackness have no importance; nay, rather, true judgement is based upon the soul and heart.  AB03739

the lights of mysteries cast such radiance upon all regions...Light upon light became visible - the niche in utmost delicacy, the glass in perfect purity and refinement, the lamp in supreme luminosity  AB06997

Should a black stone be placed facing the light of the sun, the signs of brilliancy would not appear, but, in the pure mirror, the sun, with all of its attributes and perfections, becomes reflected instantly.  ABU3436

Truth is like the Light which is always the same. The souls of Believers are as mirrors which reflect the Light. Truth is like the light of a candle which does not vary, yet the candlestick which holds it may change.  ABU2267

This light is the radiance of love for the Abha Beauty, this oil is the knowledge of the Supreme Lord, this wick is the heart drawn to the Beauty of God, and this lamp is the face adorned with the radiance of the All-Merciful  AB06075

This is a white leaf from God, the Lord of all worlds. Say: This is a yellow leaf from God, the Lord of all worlds. Say: This is a green leaf from God, the Lord of all worlds. Say: This is a red leaf from God, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

The light of this universal sun makes things visible - it manifests things but does not discover them. The light of sight discovers things but does not perceive them. The light of truth manifests things, discovers them, and perceives them.  AB08722

It is evident that certain colors refresh the heart and promote the elevation of feelings. For instance, the color green brings tranquility and joy to the heart. One no longer likes intense colors, but develops an inclination toward subtle hues.   ABU1310

The white garments signify holy dignity and a station sanctified from color, i.e., free from the universal conditions and material qualities. That luminous countenance, manifested in beauty, signifieth that the divine lights shone forth from the human form.   AB00438


The likeness of them who hear the melodies of God and then follow them is as the likeness of a light that shineth from the light of God, the Mighty, the Powerful. Thus observe thou from crystal which catcheth fire when it faceth the sun - this is a reminder from Us to them that remember.   BH00295

Know that in the creation of the Qur'an, the station of light was the station of the Word, whereby in the transmitted prayers, after mention of His grandeur, God was called upon by the mention of light. This is the light that, when it became manifest for Muhammad, the Apostle of God, became divine.  BB00005


By the crimson land (ard-i hamra) and the crimson hill (kathib-i ahmar) the station of Fate/Decree is intended, for in the terminology of the people of God, white indicates the station of the Will, while green signifies the station of Predestination. Crimson (ahmar) indicates the station of Fate/Decree and yellow the station of Completion (imda').  AB00923

Just as the rays of the sun concentrate themselves in a mirror and are reflected, so are the Prophetic Rays of Light of His Holiness Baha'u'llah reflected in the lines of this Book, and their luminous refulgence is shed on the fortunate reader and enlightens his understanding. Let us look at the nine rays of light emanating from the book of Ishraqat   ABU0770


There are three kinds of light. The light of the sun has only one function and that is to make things manifest. This light is not important. It is only the result of ethereal vibrations. The second light is the light of the eye which has two functions. It is the manifestor of phenomena and the seer of phenomena. The third light is the light of the intellect.   ABU2757

This is the terminology of the late Shaykh. White represents the station of Will, which can assume any color one desires. Red represents the station of Fate, yellow represents Purpose, and blue represents Destiny. The white point refers to the station of Will. The red spot refers to the station of Fate. The yellow leaf refers to Purpose. The blue heaven refers to Destiny.   ABU2713

Create from the third hair a maiden who will glorify Thy unity at all times, like unto hidden yellow ruby. Create from the fourth hair a maiden who will proclaim Thy greatness in every condition, like unto veiled green emerald. And she was like unto glowing red ruby. Create from every hair...maidens of Paradise and offspring that will bring delight to their inhabitants through what Thou hast created of hidden white pearls and treasured red rubies  BB00004

This is a light above every light. Say: This is a light before every light. Say: This is a light after every light. Say: This is a light above all light. Say: This is a light beneath all light. Say: This is a light to the right of every light, then to its left, then from every direction that leadeth unto it. God createth every light by His command. He, verily, is the Light in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them.  BB00004



It is the embellishment of Glory in the pillar of praise, it is the embellishment of yellow in the pillar of decree, it is the embellishment of beginning in the pillar of green, and it is the embellishment of origination in the pillar of red. If thou sayest red, then it hath adorned the yellow with white, and if thou sayest green, then it hath adorned the white with red. Blessed is it! It is eternally red, imperishably white, perpetually green, and regally yellow.  BB00240

God hath created for us therein white chambers wherein we were among those who glorify Him, then yellow chambers wherein we were among the thankful ones, then green chambers wherein we were among those who declare His unity, then red chambers wherein we were among those who magnify Him. And God hath created for me therein youths as though they were created from the essence of hidden white diamond, or from the essence of treasured red ruby, and between them are yellow and green lights, all standing before God.  BB00004

O Munir! Luminous bodies are divided into several types. One has a dark and gloomy body but borrows light from another, like the orb of the moon which is dark in itself but acquires light from the sun. Another type is luminous and radiant in itself, like the orb of the sun which is inherently bright and world-illuminating, yet its body is other than its light and its light other than its body, though the body necessitates the light and the light is inseparable from the body in such a way that separation is only possible in conception - like essence which is other than existence but necessitates it. The third type of luminous bodies is pure light itself, where its body is identical with its light and its light identical with its body - essence is identical with existence and existence identical with essence.  AB03488
