Consider how many men in this wondrous Cause ascended to the highest levels of knowledge and possessed clear exposition, conclusive proof, eloquent tongue and wonderful speech. Yet because she was among women, the blessed leaf, the honorable Tahirih, shone forth infinitely more and became the cause of everyone's amazement. AB00619

"That one who first awoke them, who gave her life for this noble cause, was Qurratu'l-'Ain. Blessed is she among women!"   ABU2697

For many have made claims of divinity and lordship - His Holiness Quddus, may my spirit be sacrificed for him, revealed a book on the interpretation of Samad where from beginning to end it is "I am God", and the honorable Tahirih raised "I am God" to the highest heavens in Badasht  AB04355

"Kurat-el-Ayn had attained to this supreme state...Although she never cared for dress, that day she wore her best white silk dress and jewelry and perfumed herself with the most fragrant attar of roses. She hailed the chamber of death as a happy bride entering the nuptial bower of the bridegroom."  AB02479

Ponder the manner in which Jinab-i-Tahirih used to teach. She was free from every concern, and for this reason she was resplendent.   AB00677

You have surely heard how Tahirih, when imprisoned in the house of the chief of police, what a flame she ignited...Tahirih opened her tongue in speech and so moved them all that everyone abandoned that affair and gathered around her to hear her glad tidings.   AB03725

Did Kurratu'l Ayn habitually discard the veil after that meeting? No. In the presence of some of the more intimate friends who used to visit her, she would unveil but not in public.  ABU3488

As for what you asked about people's differences regarding Tahirih, the essence of what should be accepted about her is that it is incumbent upon all to remain silent concerning her station, and that she was a leaf who believed in her Lord. The proof for all is the one whom God has made a proof over me and over all, and it is not incumbent upon anyone to derive rulings except from the one in whose hands God has placed His proof. When she advanced in the knowledge of the family of God, it is not befitting for a believer to deny her or harm her. She did not rule except by what was detailed in the Book. Regarding that about which people differ, the lawful is clear and the unlawful is clear, and the doubtful matters are known.  BB00518

Consider how Victoria, with all her imperial glory, became as though she had never been mentioned, while Qurratu'l-'Ayn, who was but the daughter of a mulla, groweth brighter in her radiance day by day, and will forever shine like unto a brilliant star from the horizon of everlasting glory  AB10903

O questioner, deliver thou this epistle unto Tahirih when she departeth from the house of Jalil, and when thou arrivest in the Holy Land, unto those who dwell in the house of justice, that all may be informed of the decisive word regarding origin and return. I have indeed permitted the pilgrimage which she desired by her Lord's command. O Ahmad, in that House follow thou My decree and forbid her not. Gather her companions and protect her affairs that she may suffer no hurt from anyone, for she is a faithful believer. God's mercy be upon him who showeth mercy unto her and watcheth over her affairs.  BB00220

Qurratu'l-'Ayn, a Baha'i, was a poetess. She discomfited the learned men of Persia by her brilliancy and fervor. When she entered a meeting, even the learned were silent. She was so well versed in philosophy and science that those in her presence always considered and consulted her first. Her courage was unparalleled; she faced her enemies fearlessly until she was killed. She withstood a despotic king, the Shah of Persia, who had the power to decree the death of any of his subjects.   ABU0146

We immediately summoned Muhammad-Hadiy-i-Farhadi, and gave him the necessary directions to release her from her captivity, and escort her to the capital. As the enemy had seized Our house, We were unable to accommodate her indefinitely in Our home. Accordingly, We arranged for her transference from Our house to that of the Minister of War, who, in those days, had been disgraced by his sovereign and had been deported to Kashan. We requested his sister, who still was numbered among Our friends, to act as hostess to Tahirih.  BHU0003

As for what you have asked about the pure leaf [Tahirih], concerning the fact that she has claimed for herself the station of being a proof for others -- there is nothing dreadful or serious about this, since laudable meanings can be attributed to being a proof.... She has recognized the aspects of my decree and has pondered on the lights shining from my verses. Let none of my followers repudiate her, for she only speaks with evidences that have shone forth from the people of sinlessness [i.e., the Imams] and tokens that have radiated from the people of truth. This is enough for her as an honour among this sect.  BB00487

Amongst the women of our own time is Qurratu'l-'Ayn, the daughter of a Muhammadan priest. At the time of the appearance of the Bab she showed such tremendous courage and power that all who heard her were astonished. She threw aside her veil despite the immemorial custom of the women of Persia, and although it was considered impolite to speak with men, this heroic woman carried on controversies with the most learned men, and in every meeting she vanquished them. The Persian Government took her prisoner; she was stoned in the streets, anathematized, exiled from town to town, threatened with death, but she never failed in her determination to work for the freedom of her sisters. She bore persecution and suffering with the greatest heroism; even in prison she gained converts.   ABU0726

Qurratu'l-'Ayn was a Persian woman without fame and importance -- unknown, like all other Persian women. When she saw Baha'u'llah, she changed completely, visibly, and looked within another world. The reins of volition were taken out of her hands by heavenly attraction. She was so overcome that physical susceptibilities ceased. Her husband, her sons and her family arose in the greatest hostility against Baha'u'llah. She became so attracted to the divine threshold that she forsook everything and went forth to the plain of Badasht, no fear in her heart, dauntless, intrepid, openly proclaiming the message of light which had come to her. The Persian government stood against her. They made every effort to quiet her, they imprisoned her in the governor's house, but she continued to speak. Then she was taken and killed.   ABU0086

In this Baha'i Cause there was Qurratu'l-'Ayn, who possessed supreme eloquence and articulateness. Her verses and writings still exist. All the learned men of the East praised her. Such was her influence that in debates with the divines she always prevailed; they dared not engage her in discourse. Because she promoted this Cause, the government imprisoned and persecuted her, but she was never silenced. In prison she raised her voice and guided souls. Finally, they ordered her execution. She showed the utmost courage and never faltered. She was imprisoned in the governor's house where, by chance, a wedding was being celebrated with all manner of festivity, music, song, food and drink. But Qurratu'l-'Ayn spoke with such power that all abandoned the wedding festivities and gathered around her. No one paid attention to the wedding while she alone spoke. Though the Shah had ordered her execution, and although she had never adorned herself in her lifetime, on that day she adorned herself, which astonished everyone. When asked why, she replied, This is my wedding day. With perfect dignity and composure she went to that garden. While all were saying she would be killed, she continued to proclaim, I am that trumpet-call mentioned in the Gospel! In this state, they martyred her in the garden and cast her into a well.  ABU0028

We were all gathered in the village of Niyala and were resting at the foot of a mountain, when, at the hour of dawn, we were suddenly awakened by the stones which the people of the neighbourhood were hurling upon us from the top of the mountain. The fierceness of their attack induced our companions to flee in terror and consternation. I clothed Quddus in my own garments and despatched him to a place of safety, where I intended to join him. When I arrived, I found that he had gone. None of our companions had remained in Niyala except Tahirih and a young man from Shiraz, Mirza 'Abdullah. The violence with which we were assailed had brought desolation into our camp. I found no one into whose custody I could deliver Tahirih except that young man, who displayed on that occasion a courage and determination that were truly surprising. Sword in hand, undaunted by the savage assault of the inhabitants of the village, who had rushed to plunder our property, he sprang forward to stay the hand of the assailants. Though himself wounded in several parts of his body, he risked his life to protect our property. I bade him desist from his act. When the tumult had subsided, I approached a number of the inhabitants of the village and was able to convince them of the cruelty and shamefulness of their behaviour. I subsequently succeeded in restoring a part of our plundered property.  BHU0017

Qurratu'l-'Ayn (literally, 'consolation of the eye') was one of the greatest and most heroic women of this Truth. She came from a learned family and deeply loved knowledge. If Fatima, daughter of Muhammad, had been a boy and enjoyed greater opportunities, she would have elevated her family and become a mighty pillar in the temple of Religion. While Qurratu'l-'Ayn was visiting her cousin's home, she happened to read a pamphlet explaining the Mission of the Bab. She instantly became a believer. Afterward she was taught by the Bab Himself and received her name 'Qurratu'l-'Ayn from Him. Some say she was taught in Baghdad by the command of the Bab. She was independent and absolutely fearless. Upon her return home, her husband refused to recognize her, so she left his house. Her uncle was killed in a Mosque for his Babi faith, and for a time she was kept prisoner in his house. After being released, she went with a number of believers to a celebration outside the city, in a grove near a deserted village. The Blessed Perfection was present. It was a meeting filled with faith, love, and rejoicing. In speaking to the meeting, she became so inspired she removed the cover from her face. Her mother and some of her relatives were present, and her action produced a great commotion among them. When the news came to the ears of the Muhammadans, their charges and persecutions against her became violent and bitter. Finally, she was taken away from her friends and put to death. She died a martyr and a heroine. In her impassioned speech she had said, ' What God has created pure shall I call impure?' removing her veil as she said it. She spent the night before her execution in prayer. Her last wish was that she might be strangled instead of decapitated. Once at a wedding all present left the bride and gathered around Qurratu'l-'Ayn; she was so eloquent and sincere. She knew the Blessed Perfection before He declared Himself to be the Manifestation of God. In herself she was a revelation to the women of the world. If this Revelation had produced only one martyr like Qurratu'l-'Ayn, this would be sufficient proof in the Cause of God.  ABU0537

And among others, that Point of Attraction, His Holiness Ta - upon her be the glory of God, the Most Glorious - remained for a time with this servant, and she would not have exchanged the meeting with this Youth for the sovereignty of this world and the next, nor did she desire to be separated from Me for even less than that. But what was decreed came to pass. And how numerous are the verses and poems that she composed concerning this wondrous Cause! Among them, she composed a ghazal in description of the Divine Countenance, of which one couplet is the following: Should Baha cast aside the veil from His face / A hundred thousand like the Primal Point would come into being.  In like manner hath she amply described others besides this servant, and above all these utterances is the Hidden Book of the Primal Point -- may the souls of all else be His sacrifice -- all of which hath been revealed concerning this wondrous Cause but remaineth veiled from sight.  BH00006
