In every city there must be organized assemblies of teaching-classes to teach the young how to teach the Cause and prepare them for this most important service.  ABU1257

Even so must you be, for I have trained you.   AB06617

Before teaching others, one must first teach oneself.   ABU3493

A person should first test their knowledge within themselves to see whether it is practically applicable or merely theoretical.   ABU3493

Surely all the friends should think about increasing teaching study classes  AB02664

Therefore I hope that the students of that teacher will progress in all ranks and become occupied with teaching.  AB04286

When we give the Message, we develop ourselves. Our own heart is opened when we teach the heart of the listener.   ABU3215

All your conversations must be confined to spreading the Divine Teachings and not religious beliefs, because people are still weak.   AB03652
he who wishes to teach must first find himself in the right state, to-wit,-he must discover in his own being the sense of attraction and the prayerful attitude, and by his attention to the Focal Point, will he be able to teach.  ABU1137

Previously, detailed letters have been written about the conduct and behavior of the divine friends and what is necessary and fitting.   AB01985

Man must strive first to educate and train his own self - thus he may obtain unlimited capacity; then starts in the education of others.   ABU0772

"He brought about the Lord's Supper, and served the diciples in order to teach them that they must also serve others. This was His example to them."  ABU1065

And you yourself must make the utmost effort to advance in the English language, both speaking and writing, for it will be much needed in the future.  AB02510

The friends of God must teach by deeds and conduct so that all will testify that verily their behavior and manner is a reflection of the heaven above.   ABU0855

Now compensation must be made for what was lost. We supplicate and implore at the Threshold of Oneness on their behalf and seek confirmation and success.  AB12238

Today the friends must be illumined with the light of steadfastness and summon the people of the world to the supreme horizon through wisdom and utterance.   BH00417

"whenever you open your lips it must be to guide the capable souls, so that they may enter the Divine Religion and receive a share from the inexhaustible bounties"   AB06599

Through the instruction of the Holy Spirit they are ripened. While I travelled in America I met many illumined Jews who are aware of the Mysteries of the Kingdom...   ABU0673

Through my training you must become so fitted to spread the Glad-Tidings of the Abha Kingdom that you will follow in the footsteps of these blessed ones in gladness.   ABU1058

Receive proofs and evidence from Mirza Abul Fazl so that thou wilt be armed with convincing proofs and sufficient argument to break down the ranks of denial, pride and ignorance.  AB06310

Divine verses have encompassed all regions, are found with every soul, and are visible in every house. Now we beseech Him to enable and confirm His servants in what is befitting.   BH00202

Seek not thy ease or comfort for a moment nor take a single breath without reason or goodly results. This goodly fruit is none other than to be attracted to the divine fragrances   AB05639

I have done my part. I have sung my songs and have played almost every tune. Now it is your turn. For awhile I must sit silent ever straining my ears to hear your anthems of praise.  ABU0397

O followers of this Wronged One! Ye are the shepherds of mankind; liberate ye your flocks from the wolves of evil passions and desires, and adorn them with the ornament of the fear of God.  BH00005

Among its fruits is that souls are being taught and instructed, and being educated under the blessed tree, they become familiar with the holy fragrances and strive to diffuse the divine breaths.   AB02072

Thou wert thirsty and he suffered thee to drink the water of life. Thou wert a seeker; he became the cause of thy guidance to the Kingdom. He became the cause of thy illumination and spirituality.   AB05249

If the friends of God in America were each engaged in teaching the Cause of God like the friends in Iran, by now they would have guided several million souls and joy and gladness would have been attained by all.   AB01472

Praise be to God that thou hast a heart enkindled with the Fire of the Love of God. Unquestionably its heat will have effect in the hearts of others and thou wilt become the means of the guidance of innumerable souls.  AB07575

If they be birds of the meadow of divine knowledge, they must needs spread their wings and take flight unto the branches of the gardens of oneness. And if they be fish of the ocean of love, they must needs move and swim therein.  AB08863

Among the most excellent services is the education and training of children and the promotion of various branches of knowledge and sciences. Now, praise be to God, you are making a mighty effort and great endeavor in this service.  AB02794

You must engage in the diffusion of the Fragrances of God, so that ye may impart life to the worlds, illumine the dark regions, confer new existence upon these mouldering, dead bodies, make intelligent and mindful these negligent hearts.  ABU2872

Supplicate God that thou mayest make the young women of that tribe handmaidens of the threshold of the Mighty Lord, so that, being nurtured in the embrace of that handmaiden of God's training, they may become near to the threshold of the All-Glorious  AB08175

I did not bring thee with me without a good reason nor have I kept thee so long without a cause. Be thou not grieved. I am thy instructor. I have educated thee in my own college. Thou art my student. Adorn thyself with my words, deeds, morals, manners.   ABU0624

We must associate with all humanity in gentleness and kindliness. We must love all with love of the heart. Some are ignorant; they must be trained and educated. One is sick; he must be healed. Another is as a child; we must assist him to attain maturity.   ABU0233

All the people of the world look at us to see how we act; what our characteristics are; what our attributes are; what our mode of procedure is. They all look toward us, and we must act in such wise that we may not be the cause of the degradation of the Cause of God.   ABU0025

A teacher must never ask for money for any of his personal needs but the believers must by themselves in a voluntary spirit provide him with his travelling expenses etc, especially when he cannot pay for them. This must be done very quietly without any public announcement.   ABU0889

"In movements there is life, in immobility there is death. The traveling of the teachers from place to place, from Orient to Occident, and from country to country, is one of the greatest means for spreading the Fragrances, and for sowing spiritual seeds in the souls of the people."  ABU3365

Now the affairs occurring in that land have become and continue to be the subject of discussion everywhere. Reflect on the conditions of the Wronged One - the bearing of countless afflictions was for the preservation of stations, yet now it has yielded the opposite result and caused waste.   BH00294

"Strive that perchance ye may not remain deprived of the outpourings of these days. The peoples of all religions waited day and night, beseeching God for His appearance and His presence, yet when the Ocean of Light became manifest and the Temple of Revelation appeared upon the Ark of Might, all turned away."   BH03033

"To what should I devote my time in Abu-Sinan?" I asked. "I wish for you to go to Iran," the Master replied. "Presently, however, remain in Abu-Sinan and for the good-pleasure of God cure the ailing. Also read from the proof treatise as well as Ishraqat, Kalimat [Firdawsiyyih] and Tarazat, and memorize them."  ABU2343

There is no doubt that the purpose of a divine law is the education of the human race, the training of humanity. All mankind may be considered as pupils or children who are in need of a divine Educator, a real Teacher. The essential requirement and qualification of Prophethood is the training and guidance of the people.   ABU0094

Indeed, what thou hast written to that known person is truly an eloquent book. Even if it does not have an effect, it will still lessen his delusions. Without doubt, continue corresponding with him as before - it can do no harm. Perhaps the lights of fairness will shine forth and the darkness of oppression will disappear.  AB03198

When I look at the flag in the distance, it reminds me of the King (Louis) of France. He killed many of the Christians. Wherever they could be found he killed them. Then at last a thought came to him. 'We have killed the Christians, what result did we get out of it - day by day this lamp grows brighter and this sun shines brighter. It is sure that the end of it is greater than this.'  ABU0609

We must partake of the bounty and grace of the Lord, for the Bab has admonished us to arise in service to the Cause of God, to be absolutely severed from all else save God during the day of the Blessed Perfection, Baha'u'llah, to be completely attracted by the love of Baha'u'llah, to love all humanity for His sake, to be lenient and merciful to all for Him and to upbuild the oneness of the world of humanity.  ABU0346

Similarly, when anyone teaches another soul, keep it concealed and absolutely never disclose it, especially regarding prominent persons--the distinguished and eminent ones must be kept completely confidential. Now many important persons desire to enter under the shadow of Truth, but they fear exposure and fame. If they know they will remain concealed and protected, they will successively turn to the Faith. Consider this matter very important.   AB00295

At the start, put a pen in the hand of each child. Divide the children in groups and classes, according to their ability: place them in class one, class two, three and four. The first class must be confined to beginners. Seat them in order and give to each a pen and paper. Then let the teacher, using a blackboard hung on the wall, write each letter of the alphabet separately on the board with white chalk. The children are to copy on their paper what he hath written, even though their script be weak.  AB02191

Say: O servants, count not the Cause of God as a child's play and be not heedless of the divine all-encompassing knowledge. Let all be witnessed among creation with radiant countenance, truthful tongue, pure heart, complete steadfastness, unadulterated trustworthiness, absolute sanctity and utter detachment. Gird up the loins of service while uttering the praise and glorification of the Truth, that perchance in these cherished days of God ye may succeed in rendering some service and commit not that which would bring harm upon you and the servants of God.   BH00312
