the heavenly Teachings which are the Spirit of this Age!  AB10317


These teachings are what the world needs in this luminous age, for this is not an age of blind imitation; it is the age of light, and the century in which mysteries will be made manifest.  ABU3749

For the teachings of His Highness Baha'u'llah are the keys to all the doors. Every hidden secret will become discovered and every hidden mystery will become manifest and apparent.  AB10953

Today, whosoever becomes informed of the exhortations and counsels of Baha'u'llah and reads Tablets such as Kalimat, Tajalliyat, 'Ishraqat, Tarazat and Bisharat, will have no doubt whatsoever that these teachings are today's sustenance for the world of humanity and the cause of eternal life.  AB02275

When His Holiness Baha'o'llah appeared he gave forth the declaration concerning the oneness of the world of humanity. He expounded the principles of international peace. He sent epistles to the kings and rulers.   ABU0035

Meanwhile, the supreme antidote and the instantaneous cure for the ills of the people of the world are the sacred teachings of the Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) and true love for that heart-ravishing countenance.   AB07250

Consider His Holiness Baha Ollah and His teachings. They are the spirit of this cycle, the light of this century, and they illuminate the dark corners of humanity. Whosoever has heard them has confessed that these teachings are in accord with the spirit of this period.  ABU0046

My hope is that your musk-scented pen will promote the teachings of the Manifest Light, so that the people of that land may know how that shining Moon bestowed illumination upon the world of being and established teachings that are the spirit of this age and the light of this century.  AB04306

At a time when the Orient was in the dark night of cataclysmic ignorance, His Holiness BAHA'O'LLAH, like unto a glorious sun, shone forth from the eastern horizon. In the midst of contention and the clashing rivalries of the Oriental peoples he boldly proclaimed the doctrine of the oneness of the world of humanity.   ABU0058

Now it behooves Persians to engage in one more experiment, that is, to act according to the Teachings of the Blessed Beauty. They need not become Baha'is if they do not wish to; they simply need to act according to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah. Were they to do so, they would see what results are obtained in a very short time.  ABU3762


Consider His Holiness Baha'o'llah and his teaching. They are the spirit of this cycle - the light of this age. They illumine the dark places of humanity, for they address themselves to the heart of the race. For instance, the greatest evil of this century is war. In the new age Baha'o'llah has prohibited war. The need of this century is universal peace - Baha'o'llah has instituted it.  ABU0207

Thou shalt see with the eyes of joy that the bird of the love of God has spread its wings on all horizons as a result of the teachings of Baha'u'llah, because they are the spirit of the world of being in the body of mankind, and the light that is shining upon the horizons of creation.  AB00745

For all the teachings of the Blessed Beauty are peace and amity, justice and equity, the progress of humankind, advancement in the degrees of illumination, the proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity, the promotion of useful sciences, the spread of universal knowledge, the expansion of innovations and crafts, and the abandonment of religious, racial, national and political prejudices.  AB10664

He proclaimed the oneness of mankind. He announced that all humanity are the sheep of One Shepherd, and God is the only true Shepherd. Baha'o'llah proclaimed the ideal of universal peace among religions. The fundamental principle of religion is one and the same—all the prophets guided mankind to divine love. They have called them to the knowledge of God. They have taught them the unity of the human race.   ABU0212

After Our arrival, We revealed, as a copious rain, by the aid of God and His Divine Grace and mercy, Our verses, and sent them to various parts of the world. We exhorted all men, and particularly this people, through Our wise counsels and loving admonitions, and forbade them to engage in sedition, quarrels, disputes and conflict. As a result of this, and by the grace of God, waywardness and folly were changed into piety and understanding, and weapons converted into instruments of peace.  BH00005

At such a time as this Baha'u'llah proclaimed the first principle of His mission and teaching -- the oneness of the world of humanity. His second announcement was the investigation of reality; the third was the oneness of the foundations of the divine religions. Through spiritual education He led the people out of darkness and ignorance into the clear light of truth, illuminated their hearts with the splendor of knowledge, laid a true and universal basis for religious teachings, cultivated the virtues of humanity, conferred spiritual susceptibilities, awakened inner perceptions.   ABU0057


The sacred Manifestations were not known in the first cycles and the fruit of their mission had not been discovered. But in this spiritual age, in this divine time the exaltation and the luminosity, the truth and the greatness of the Cause of God have become manifest and evident as the sun in all regions. All wise men witness that these divine teachings are the very spirit of this age, and the light of this cycle; humanity will never find peace and tranquillity without the spreading of these teachings, nor will it attain perfect civilization.  AB00245
