My gardens are the hearts and souls. The hearts are everlasting rose gardens.  ABU2653

Today good soil is rare - blessed is he who findeth it and planteth therein the seed of trustworthiness.   BH04254

so that through the downpour of the rain of mercy, the seed of divine gifts will flourish in the soil of the heart.   AB11769

They are like unto a pure soil in which the seeds of loyalty are planted and which will grow and bring forth much fruits.   ABU1644

that which will cause to spring forth from the soil of hearts the plants of Thy knowledge and the fruits of Thy love and praise  BH05073

I am, O my God, but a tiny seed which Thou hast sown in the soil of Thy love, and caused to spring forth by the hand of Thy bounty.   BH05543

See in the winter how bare and lifeless the trees and plants seem, without leaves and without fruit. Suppose one should pass by at this time who knew nothing of the condition of the earth and saw a man ploughing it up and casting grain in the furrow. Would he not say, "How foolish this man is. He is troubling himself for no result, working for no purpose and wasting that which would give him food"? But in due time the showers descend upon the earth, the sun shines, the breezes blow and we see the result in great beauty and production.   ABU0893


Although the earth is the black soil, yet through the downpour of rain and the heat of the sun, flowers and anemones shall grow therefrom.   ABU2053

This soil's purity or impurity comes from itself. A child is created according to divine nature, the soil is pure, but later becomes defiled.  ABU1547

If these Tablets do not move and stir the hearts out of their sleep and do not spur them into insatiable activity they are harder than stones   ABU3278

Consider man as a tree: its fruit hath been and ever shall be the knowledge of God, and its leaves and branches are goodly deeds and spiritual qualities.  BH10099

The seeds that fall on the path and among weeds and on rocks have no fruit or result, but what is scattered on good soil grows and bears fruit and becomes a source of blessing.  ABU1433

Thou knowest, O my God, that this is a plant which hath grown in the soil of Thy acceptance - withhold not from it the rain from the clouds of Thy grace and the heaven of Thy generosity  BH10968

These gardens are your hearts. Whosoever hath planted the tree of divine love in the garden of his heart must needs preserve it, water it with the rain of remembrance, and keep it pure from the weeds of self and passion.   BH06458

"Look at the people of the world. Look in a very careful way and then you will observe that all the people are like gardeners. They are all planting the seed in a fertile ground or a very weak ground. The seed sown in sterile ground will not bear fruit--no result."  ABU1475

He hath ploughed the land, and sown it with pure seed; and little by little it hath become green and verdant. His object, however, is that it should yield an abundant harvest, sheaf upon sheaf, and that the grace and blessings of heaven should be made apparent. He hath planted the choicest seedlings.   ABU0658

If we consider the ground it also has two perfections--its innate faculty of growth and that which the gardener brings out. If he leaves a piece of ground to itself he will find it bringing forth all sorts of plants--some good and some bad--and he will never get any blessings from that ground unless it is cultivated.   ABU0272

Yet, since he is as a seed from Thy holy land, he desireth that Thou plant him by the hands of Thy bounty in the soil of Thy Divine Unity, that he may yield the fruits of Thine eternity in the cloud of Thy Lordship and put forth the leaves of Thy oneness in the atmosphere of the intimate fellowship of the heaven of glory of the King of Thy bounty.   BH01310

In a flower garden it produces flowers and fragrant herbs, while in a waste place it brings forth thorns and poisonous weeds. "As for the good land, its vegetation comes forth by permission of its Lord, while that which is bad yields only hardship." Now praise be to God that Anarak was good land, for its vegetation became roses, sweet basil, hyacinth and thyme   AB11846


The soil must be fertilized before the seed can be sown.  AB11557

plant in this low earth a tree the branches of which shall reach up to the very heaven  AB06374

"The garden of the soul's delight Is filled with flowers blooming bright"   AB04828

for they are black earth and barren salt-marsh - no matter how much rain falls, no flowers or fragrant herbs will grow   AB07371

Make my heart to be a pure mirror and my soul faithful. Torment Thou my insistent self, kindle my heart and revive my spirit.  AB05409

That pure seed is the love of God which must be sown in the field of hearts so that a harvest may be reaped at the end of spring.  AB06092

spirits are stirred by the breezes of their gardens, delighting in the bounties of their realities, rejoicing in the freshness of their meadows   AB01288

Man is, in the sight of God, even as a tree. His leaves are forbearance and submission, and his fruits are the knowledge of the All-Bountiful Lord.  BH09151

like trees planted in the Abha Paradise... such freshness and delicacy that they adorn the realm of existence and become the envy of gardens and meadows   AB05493

This effort which he has made is like unto the seed which a farmer sows. That seed will surely receive the benefit of a blessing and thus will form harvests.   AB03652

If its characteristics and conditions become fully realised in a soul then the utterance "Blessed be God, the Best of Creators" will be manifest and evident.   AB06182

O thou tree planted in the Vineyard of God!...Therefore, O thou tree, be verdant, blossom, put forth leaves and bear beautiful fruits in this most Supreme Paradise!  AB10671

The people who come here are divided into two classes. One comes here as dead and returns alive; ignorant and returns wise; withered and returns fresh and fragrant.  ABU1764

This faith and certitude, like a seed sown in the field of the heart, will soon sprout forth and yield ears of corn, becoming a bountiful harvest for the free ones.  AB09186

Human reality is like pure soil - the more thou dost dig and till and turn it over, the greater becomes its bounty and blessing, and the better its vegetation grows.  AB06078

O thou tender plant in the Garden of God! Happy art thou, Happy art thou! That thou art nurtured and developed by the outpouring of the Cloud of the Most Great Guidance.  AB07308

And from the flowers, which were enclosed in your note, he has smelled the scent of the gardens of your hearts, which are ornamented by the flowers of faith and assurance  AB07720

This faith and certitude, like a seed sown in the field of the heart, will soon sprout forth, yielding ears of corn that shall become the blessed harvest of the free ones.  AB09186

and raising certain persons for the service of the Kingdom and gardening in the divine orchard...thou wilt become a rose-garden of the hyacinths of realities and significances   AB06589

O sapling of the garden of divine knowledge! How fortunate and auspicious is thy destiny, that thou hast grown up beside this stream and flourished in this orchard of certitude.  AB10128

In truth, you are the gardeners in the divine garden, training the trees of human souls and bringing forth many flowers of delightful hue and fragrance in the garden of the Kingdom  AB12346

The cultivators have, through divine confirmation and grace, sown the seed which hath grown through the water of the mercy of the All-Merciful, and the harvest is nigh.  BH11133

Water the field of that divine Farmer and tend the garden of that spiritual Friend, so that the harvest may yield abundance and the garden may become the envy of flower beds and meadows  AB11787

I swear by His peerless Beauty that mention and praise of Him, like the spring rain, makes verdant and joyous the gardens of hearts and bestows abundant blessing upon the field of realities.  AB04772

Supplicate to God that the seed of knowledge in the soil of thy heart may soon develop and grow into hyacinths and roses and that the flower-garden of the love of God may be thereby perfumed.   AB05521

However bountiful the heavenly showers nothing will grow unless the soil is pure and goodly; however radiant the reflections of the Sun of Truth, nothing will shine unless the human heart is pure.   AB06843

mayest turn into a fruitful and flourishing tree in the Vineyard of God and that, through the sprinkling of the clouds of His loving providence, thou mayest appear in the utmost freshness and tender beauty  AB08929

Strive ye that they may grow very quickly. Water ye that field and take care of the tender shrubs planted by the hand of 'Abdu'l-Baha so that they may yield luscious fruits, and become the fruit of the spirit.  AB09738

unless it be a flower that at every moment plants a branch in the stream of mysteries, and with its sweet fragrance perfumes not only the rose garden but the meadow and plain, and adorns the courtyard of the garden  AB03947

Mayest thou grow and develop in the meadow of graces and become green and verdant in the orchard of understanding; in the Garden of Oneness mayest thou become the incomparable tree and the flower of the Court of Unity.  AB12570

"O Lord! This is a sweet basil plant grown in the gardens of Thy oneness, and this is a verdant shoot beside the pools of Thy mercy, and this is a branch that hath grown and flourished in the groves of Thy singleness."  AB05839

Waft upon me moreover, O my God, a breeze from the garden of the heart of one of the leaves which sprung from the tree of Thy oneness, that perchance my heart is quickened, my soul is refreshed, and my spirit is rejoiced.  AB03050

O sapling of the garden of divine knowledge! We hope that...thou mayest become a fruit-laden and bountiful tree, and grow and develop with utmost freshness and delicacy in the rose-garden of the favors of His Holiness the One   AB10630

I beseech God that that divine Farmer may plow every hard soil, irrigate it and scatter seeds therein. This is proof of the skill and power of the Farmer, for any soul can cultivate and irrigate soft soil free of thorns and weeds.  AB01693

But you are a sapling in the garden of love. I hope that you will grow and develop through the drops of the cloud of grace and will put forth leaves and blossoms from the breeze of divine bestowal and will yield sweet and sugary fruit  AB04555

Strive night and day and drink from the spring of certitude, that this drop may become a river and the river may join the ocean. Then boundless favors shall appear and the wondrous attributes of the All-Merciful shall become manifest.   AB11754

O thou tree, developed in the garden of the Love of God! Be well watered with the abundant rain falling from the clouds of the Testament of God, that thou mayest bring forth fresh and ripe fruits which are beneficial to the hearts and souls.  AB11441

I ask God to make thee a growing, developing branch in His vineyard, bearing flowers, leaves and fruits, with widespread branches, blooming, verdant and watered by the abundance of the clouds of His Kingdom and the heat of the sun of His Word  AB11434

The planting of trees is easy, but their cultivation and training to strengthen their roots and to make them firm is difficult. Now, as thou art a firm tree, thou shalt certainly grow and send out branches, leaves and blossoms and bear fruits.   AB07126

If reason prevails, he is luminous and of the highest heaven, but if the self prevails and nature dominates, he is dark and of the lowest hell, for the heavenly power and the natural animal force are in conflict within man until one emerges victorious  AB01183

I beseech God that the garden of hearts may be so adorned through the gift of the All-Glorious and the grace and mercy of the Supreme Concourse that it may become the envy of the most verdant garden and the object of jealousy of the paradise of refuge.  AB08699

The plant most pruned by the gardeners is that one which, when the summer comes, will have the most beautiful blossoms and the most abundant fruit. The labourer cuts up the earth with his plough, and from that earth comes the rich and plentiful harvest.  ABU0936

Although the black soil has no value or price, yet through the downpour of the vernal shower, the heat and rays of the most great, heavenly luminary and the wafting of the spring breeze the flowers and hyacinths of wonderful and delicate hues grow therein.  AB03303

O my God! O my God! This plant has put forth its shoots and stands firm upon its stem. It has astounded the cultivators and enraged the envious. O Lord! Sustain it through the showers of Thy grace and make it into mighty heaps like great hills in Thy dominion.  AB09611

From clean soil it produces flowers and sweet herbs, while from brackish ground nothing grows save worthless thorns and weeds. Therefore praise ye God that, praise be to God, ye were pure and clean soil which brought forth flowers and sweet herbs of faith and certitude  AB07005

This seed craveth, therefore, in its inmost being, for the waters of Thy mercy and the living fountain of Thy grace. Send down upon it, from the heaven of Thy loving-kindness, that which will enable it to flourish beneath Thy shadow and within the borders of Thy court.   BH05543

Therefore, give thanks unto God that thy pure heart was a polished mirror that became illumined with the lights of guidance, and thy soul was good and fertile soil that, through the outpourings of the clouds of grace, brought forth the flowers and sweet herbs of guidance.  AB07677

Through the outpouring of the cloud of Thy bounty, the heat of the Sun of Reality, and the wafting of the breeze of guidance, grant these saplings growth and development. Bestow upon them freshness and grace, that they may bring forth leaves and blossoms and yield fruit.   AB07375

The more the farmer of knowledge and wisdom strives in the soil of souls, the more the bounties and blessings will increase. Until the earth becomes pure and ready through the efforts of the farmer, it will not yield complete fruits and great harvests will not be obtained.  AB04166

Although thou art but a tender sapling in the garden of the love of the Most Great Oneness, yet we cherish strong hopes that, through the great bounty and profound favor of the Lord, the Gracious One, thou wilt become a fruitful tree in the meadow and garden of the knowledge of God  AB08153

Do ye tend these seedlings with heart and soul, do ye tend this area of tillage and cultivation, that it may flourish and develop, and ripe ears and heavenly blessings may be reaped. 'In this wise,' He hath told them, 'Do ye water and nurture the seedlings until they come to fruit.'   ABU0658

You have drunk from the Living Waters and grown and developed through the clear waters and the pure springs of certitude. Now you must ever be stirred and moved by the breezes of bounty from the direction of divine favors, and day by day acquire fresh grace, delicacy and spirituality  AB01665

The trees of loving-kindness have arrived. O beloved of my heart! The tree is present, the earth is present, the water is present - the matter rests with the planter and cultivator. We beseech God that by His blessed will and good-pleasure, He may bring about the means that are expedient.   BH00659

Your fields are hearts. You sow seeds of the love of God and water them from the spring of divine knowledge, trusting in the Sun of Truth that its heat and rays will nurture this blessed crop, and the breeze of bounty will blow and the dew of grace will fall, giving this cultivation freshness, beauty and blessing.  AB03251

When this cup of life overfloweth, this robust body becometh weak and incapacitated, and this vibrant morning turneth into a dark night, what fruit wilt thou pluck from the tree of life, what result wilt thou attain, what nectar wilt thou taste, from what snare wilt thou be delivered, and from what chalice wilt thou quaff?   AB06811

"Some people are ready for education. They are like the fertile ground. Some have not capacity, they are like the barren or salty ground. His Holiness Christ has told a story of the seed that fell on stony ground and so it could not grow. Other seeds fell in the shallow earth, and they soon withered away. But some fell on the good fertile earth, and grew and produced fruit."  ABU2124

We are saplings which have been planted by the fingers of Thy bounty and have been formed out of the water and clay of Thy tender affection. We thirst for the living waters of Thy favours and are dependent upon the outpourings of the clouds of Thy generosity. Abandon not to itself this grove wherein our hopes aspire, nor withhold therefrom the showers of Thy loving-kindness.  AB04105

Now that the clouds of loving providence are pouring forth and the Sun of Truth is shining, now that the breezes of His Providence are blowing in this season of Divine Spring every spiritual farmer must scatter seeds of the spirit too so that he might attain onto true happiness and salvation. Such seeds, as ordained by the one true God, are none other than goodly attributes and goodly deeds, goodly character and goodly words.   AB05368

If he acquire praiseworthy virtues, these strengthen the individuality of man and call forth his hidden forces; but if he acquire defects, the beauty and simplicity of the individuality will be lost to him and its God-given qualities will be stifled in the foul atmosphere of self... A fruitless tree under the influence of a wise gardener becomes fruitful; a slab of marble under the hand of a sculptor becomes a beautiful statue.  ABU0384

With My own hands have I reared thee, and in My exalted Paradise have I planted thee, that through My loving care thou mightest bring forth goodly branches, pure boughs, and blessed fruits. And now is the time of thy fruition. Beware lest thou suffer thy leaves, fruits and branches to be withered by the scorching winds of extinction or be brought to naught. Therefore, through remembrance of My glorious Name, keep fresh the fruits of thine own tree and preserve them from violent gales and destroying tempests.  BH11754

Every gardener tendeth the trees he hath planted in his garden, and when he observeth that any of the branches have withered, he cutteth them off, for should he leave them in their condition, their decay would affect all the other branches until it reacheth the very root of the tree. Likewise doth he cleanse his garden of the weeds that have sprung up therein, that all the trees may bear fruit and men may benefit therefrom. O friends! Tend ye the gardens of the Lord of creation and keep them pure from the thorns and weeds that have grown therein. These gardens are your hearts.   BH06458

Each kingdom of nature holds potentialities and each must be cultivated in order to reach its fulfillment.  ABU0902


