I am, I am, I am, the promised One! I am the One whose name you have for a thousand years invoked, at whose mention you have risen, whose advent you have longed to witness, and the hour of whose Revelation you have prayed God to hasten.  BBU0004

The essence of all remembrance is that I am the Point through which all things were caused to speak, and I am the Face of God that dieth not and His Light that fadeth not. Whoso knoweth me, behind him lies certitude and all good; whoso remaineth ignorant of me, behind him lies hell and all evil.  BB00079

Then We raised up the Sovereign of the Messengers, who was named Ali in all the tablets, and through him We opened the gates of grace unto the faces of all created things. We made him the herald of this Manifestation. He said: "O people! When the Beloved of the worlds cometh unto you, beware lest ye hesitate in His Manifestation and cling to what ye possess from the tidings of the ancients. Verily, I have revealed the Bayan for His sake and made it as a leaf among the leaves of Paradise for Him. Beware lest ye differ concerning His wondrous Cause. Follow not your leaders at the time of His appearance, for on that Day the affairs of the worlds shall be changed, and the followers of the Mount shall perish at the dawning of a drop from that crimson Light rising from the Most Glorious Horizon. Fear God and be not of them that are veiled. O people! I have come to you to announce the meeting with God on the Day when the clouds shall be cleft asunder and the Lord of Lords shall come with hosts from the envoys of God, the Mighty, the Wise. Beware lest ye look upon Him with your eyes or the eyes of your leaders. Look upon Him with His eye; thus have I been commanded by God, your Beloved and the Beloved of the worlds. O people! He is the Hidden Mystery and the Treasured Being. He shall come unto you with the truth, with a manifest and evident Command. Every good mention revealed in the Bayan hath no purpose except His Self. Await His days, O people of unity! Were it not for Him, I would not have revealed the Bayan nor manifested Myself amongst you, if ye be of the assured ones. I have made every matter dependent upon His leave. Beware in the days of His manifestation lest ye cling to what hath been revealed in the Bayan and its letters. Fear God, O people, and be not of them that cling. On that Day, detach yourselves from all that ye possess and turn with your hearts unto My Beloved and the Beloved of the Concourse on High, My Purpose and the Purpose of the hearts of them that know. Beware, beware, O people, lest ye grieve Him in anything or commit that which would sadden His most gentle and tender heart. Prepare yourselves for meeting Him in His days. By God! His Day is the Sovereign of Days, and He is the King of the former and latter generations."  Thus did We reveal in the Bayan through the tongue of Ali aforetime, and We were in truth a witness unto him. Verily, he delivered the messages of his Lord unto the servants with most wondrous utterance, were ye of them that perceive.  BH00705


In this pilgrimage upon which We are soon to embark, We have chosen Quddus as Our companion.  BBU0003

The Bab--may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him--would sometimes partake of frankincense and rock candy  AB09877

these glorious divine Manifestations have existed from the beginning that hath no beginning until the time ended with the wondrous First Manifestation in the garment of the Last, and the Primal Point, exalted be His grandeur, elevated be His signs, and mighty be His glory, rose from the Most Exalted Horizon and guided the people to the pathway of eternity. All the servants clung to their religious leaders among the divines and never turned to the Essence of Divine Unity, although He appeared with such compelling proof that all found themselves powerless to produce the like thereof. Then they arose in opposition and demanded supernatural signs.  BH00811

Read ye the Bayan, that ye may know him whom the followers of all religions have failed to recognize  BH03005

This is that which was revealed for the Most Exalted One who was martyred in the Land of Ta [Tabriz] - a martyrdom at which the Concourse on High were amazed and the people of paradise lamented - and for the exalted Letters who spent their wealth and blood in the path of God, the Lord of earth and heaven.  BH11309

The Point of the Bayan hath said that all exist that they might be mentioned but once in the holy court.  BH06484

The Bab had many relatives. He particularly wished that His mother should believe in this Revelation and attain.  ABU1627

This is He by Whose name We adorned the Bayan and by Whose mention the books of the All-Merciful were embellished.   BH03922

We desire to write for thee that which the Point of the Bayan and the Primal Beauty intended for the people of Baha   BH10319

We have made manifest the Point and have expounded it until there appeared books which none can reckon save the All-Knowing.   BH09429

The Merciful Beauty, the Primal Point and His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him) drew aside the veil.  AB03869


He counseled you throughout the Bayan not to pause at the time of His manifestation for anything created between the heavens and earth  BH01663

God hath indeed exalted Joseph through Our name, and God hath made him in the Book a guardian, stationed around the Fire. God hath made Joseph and his brethren the Word of Unity, and the All-Merciful hath ordained them as twelve letters, and this Word hath been inscribed in the Mother Book with thy Lord, written in the Line around the Line.  BB00002

God manifested Muhammad among the Arabs, while I was raised among those who cannot speak Arabic words, so how do they utter verses? God sent him forth after forty years of his life had passed, as you all remember. But God sent me forth after twenty-four years of my life had passed, and I completed My proof upon all who are on earth through the Book which We revealed in truth, but you are far removed from God's command. We have revealed a thousand verses in six hours, while you are all together unable to comprehend them, let alone utter the like of this.  BB00003

When the Cause hath reached unto God, look not upon your proofs, for all this hath been revealed by God. Were ye to reflect upon what hath been revealed, that which God revealed in twenty-three years is now revealed in four days.  BB00085


But for My incarceration in the Jabal-i-Shadid, the fortress of Chihriq, it would have been incumbent upon Me to lend My personal assistance to My beloved Quddus.  BBU0010

This is the Primal Point Who came to you with all the signs and hath appeared in this final revolution with the Most Great Mystery - secrets beyond reckoning.  BH02266

To whom do these addresses in the Ahsan-el-Kessas refer? Undoubtedly to the One-Whom-God-Shall-Manifest, that is His Holiness Baha'o'llah, and not to Mirza Yahya (Ezel).   ABU0492

His Holiness the Supreme (the Bab) has said in one of His supplications: 'Were it not to suffer calamities in the path of Love I would never have accepted to be born into this world.'   ABU0840

The Supreme Pen hath, in the prison of 'Akka, turned towards the loved ones in the land of Kha, that is, those souls who have been adorned with the new raiment, who are turned towards the horizon of oneness, and who revolve, through their essential, original motion, around the Will of God. Although this motion is mentioned as opposed to rest, yet it is sanctified from ascent and descent, and is exalted above vacillation and the comprehension of them that are bounded by limitations. Its effect is witnessed to be swifter than lightning and more penetrating than the winds. Nay, it is the cause and source of the appearance of the winds. These winds, if they be not mixed with carnal desires, will cause the effect of spring to appear in the realities of existence; otherwise, the effect of autumn will be manifest. The origin of this motion appeareth from the manifestations of the motion of the Primal Point, which in one station hath been interpreted as the First Mystery, the First Ornament, and the White Pearl, and from it the Fire of Oneness surgeth forth from the Blessed Tree, and the substance of burning is witnessed and concealed in all things.  BH01881

And the Author of the Bayan proclaimeth amidst all possibilities, declaring: 'The All-Merciful hath come! He, verily, is the Promised One, the Remembered One, the One inscribed, the Hidden Treasure!'   BH06246

I have manifested the Gate through the revelation of My Self on the Day of Resurrection, that We might recompense those who believed in the Qur'an and cast into the fire those who believed not therein.  BB00129

There are three frames present - two with the blessed likenesses of the Ancient Beauty and one with the blessed likeness of His Holiness the Exalted One, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Their loved ones   AB01024

have believed in Thy unity and in Thy divine Word - the Primal Point and the Most Exalted One - Who gave glad tidings to all on earth and in heaven of Thy Most Great Manifestation, the luminous Sun of Thy Reality  AB02637

And yet another time doth He expose his sacred breast to a thousand bullets of tyranny, like unto the Primal Point - He Who is the Mystery of Existence and the Manifestation of the Adored One, may My soul be a sacrifice unto Him.  AB03733

that region [Shiraz] was the homeland of the Great Announcer and that country the dawning-place of that luminous Star. Its flame must be intense and its light evident, its meteor penetrating and its arrows piercing, its sword world-conquering and its star a brilliant sun   AB02706


Verily, He Who came unto you by the name of 'Ali was the Herald of this Most Great, Most Glorious Manifestation, and His Most Exalted Pen moved only in My remembrance and praise, and there flowed from His ink naught but this wise Remembrance, until He sacrificed His soul in My love   BH03086

O people! The Primal Point desired from the Bayan naught save My Self and the manifestation of My Cause. Were anyone to inhale it, he would discover from its every word the fragrance of My raiment. Thus was the Command sent down in the Bayan from the presence of the All-Merciful.   BH02675

Do Thou bless, O Lord my God, the Primal Point, through Whom the point of creation hath been made to revolve in both the visible and invisible worlds, Whom Thou hast designated as the One whereunto should return whatsoever must return unto Thee, and as the Revealer of whatsoever may be manifested by Thee.  BH00848

The power of the All-Glorious, the power of the Most Holy, and the power of Him Whom God shall make manifest - concerning whom the Primal Point hath said: God createth through the Word of Him Whom God shall make manifest. Hath anyone known the Glory save the All-Glorious, save the Most Holy, save Him Whom God shall make manifest?  A02490

He made mention of Me after He had established through clear proof the sanctification of My Being from whatsoever was revealed in the Bayan, saying: I have written a gem concerning His remembrance: He shall not be referred to by My reference nor by what hath been revealed in the Bayan. Thus did speak He Who sacrificed His spirit in My straight and manifest path BH11892

Shiraz hath ever been the focal point of the denizens of the realm of mysteries and the fountainhead of fervent prayers and supplications. Blessed souls have been raised up in that land who have become the object of exaltation and praise. And this even more so, as that city hath now become the dawning-place of the Morn of Oneness and the dayspring of the Sun of Truth.  AB12791

All praise, O Lord my God, be unto Him Who is the Manifestation of Thine Essence, the Dayspring of Thy oneness, the Mine of Thy knowledge, the Source of Thy Revelation, the Repository of Thine inspiration, the Seat of Thy sovereignty, and the Dawning-Place of Thy Divinity--He Who is the Primal Point, the Most Exalted Countenance, the Ancient Root, and the Quickener of nations  BH00437

This is the Day whereon all things have circled round and all names have spoken forth, and wherein the Temple of Ancient Days hath been established upon the Most Great Throne, and the Primal Point hath called out from His right hand, saying: O people of the Bayan! Fear ye the All-Merciful. This is He but for Whom I would not have revealed Myself, nor would I have uttered a word of Mine own.  BH08017

We sent unto you aforetime 'Ali with a perspicuous Book, Who gave you the glad-tidings of this Most Great, Most Mighty Revelation and took from you a covenant concerning Mine own Self. Look ye, therefore, into the Bayan, that ye may be numbered among them that truly know. And 'Ali wept in His days until He sacrificed His life in My path - to this all things bear witness, if ye be not of them that deny.   BH01218

So Husayn Khan ordered 'Abdu'l-Hamid Khan the high constable to attack the house of the Bab's maternal uncle at midnight on all sides, and to bring Him and all His followers handcuffed. But 'Adbu'l-Hamid Khan and his hosts found no one in the house save the Bab, His maternal uncle, and Siyyid Kazim of Zanjan... On the morning after that night the Bab with Siyyid Kazim of Zanjan set out from Shiraz for Isfahan.  AB00003


At the time when the Bab was being driven by his enemies from place to place there lived in a certain city a believer who had never seen him. He had heard that the Bab wore a green turban, as did all the descendants of Muhammad. This believer went to see the Bab, and he looked for the green turban. It so happened that just before his arrival the Bab had taken off his green turban, putting on instead, a Persian cap. So the man did not recognize Him. The Bab joked, saying, 'I have heard that you have become a believer in the new movement. What has caused this change?' The man answered: 'The proof of Muhammad was His eloquent Arabic book. I have heard that this young man has brought through revelation several eloquent Arabic and Persian epistles which have the spirit of the word of Muhammad.' The Bab said: 'Whoever thus reveals, you believe?' He then began writing verses, like a crystal river. The man, overwhelmed, cried out that such an one must be a Manifestation. 'But why does not he wear a green turban?'  ABU1734

The Herald, that is, the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - in the days of His journey to Maku, while outwardly veiled from all, attained the honor of His presence, and His Holiness Quddus - upon him be the Most Glorious of all Glory - attained repeatedly. During the journey to the Land of Kha He specifically summoned him, and for several months he was blessed with attaining His presence.  BH06483

O people! Fear ye God, then be ashamed before Him Who was suspended in the air and sacrificed Himself in the path of God, the Just King, the All-Informed. By God! He sacrificed Himself for naught else but to manifest that which hath been manifested in these days. Yet ye, O people of the Bayan, have remained heedless of that which was intended and have clung to your own idle fancies, without any clear authority or enlightening Book.  BH11711

The First Draught hath appeared in such wise that no measure can fathom its mysteries. O ye that turn away from the Beauty of God! Know ye that He, the Point of the Bayan - may the life of all else but Him be His sacrifice - hath explicitly ordained in all the Bayan that ye should not remain veiled from whatsoever hath been created between earth and heaven, whether it be the Books sent down, the precious Scrolls, wondrous verses, or the manifestations in creation and in law.  BH00004

He said: O people! I have come to you from the Dawning-Place of the Cause with the revelation of God, the Sovereign, the Mighty, the Powerful. I bring you glad tidings of Him Whom the Bayan hath foretold, Who shall come with the truth even as I have come with manifest authority. He enjoined the people of the Bayan to humble themselves before His gate and turn towards His direction, and took from all created things a covenant concerning His own Self. He delivered God's messages until he was martyred for the love of God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH10825

It is related that the Bab - may the spirit of all in the kingdom be sacrificed for Him - in the days when He was engaged in commerce in Bushihr, one day some people came to His blessed presence on behalf of the King of Merchants and purchased some goods. As it was an old custom of that city to claim loss three times in the indigo trade, after three days someone came into His presence and stated that the King of Merchants was claiming a loss in this transaction. Upon hearing these words, His Holiness withdrew from the original transaction completely.  BH11021

Finally the Bab had the merchandise returned to Him, as he would not accept their request for dabbih. He also changed many other old-fashioned customs which were prevalent amongst the people. Before too long one of the uncles of His Holiness arrived in Bushihr. The same merchants went to him and complained, 'He damaged our credit. We made a transaction and asked for a reduction in price but he refused. Then he had the merchandise returned to Him.' The Bab responded by saying, 'Even now, if they wish to effect another transaction and want to exercise dabbih, I will not accept it.'  ABU0634

The Bab was a young merchant of the Pure Lineage. He was born in the year one thousand two hundred and thirty-five [A.H.] on the first day of Muharram, and when after a few years His father Siyyid Muhammad-Rida died, He was brought up in Shiraz in the arms of His maternal uncle Mirza Siyyid 'Ali the merchant. On attaining maturity He engaged in trade in Bushihr, first in partnership with His maternal uncle and afterwards independently. On account of what was observed in Him He was noted for godliness, devoutness, virtue, and piety, and was regarded in the sight of men as so characterized.  AB00003

Touching the individual known as the Bab and the true nature of this sect diverse tales are on the tongues and in the mouths of men, and various accounts are contained in the pages of Persian history and the leaves of European chronicles. But because of the variety of their assertions and the diversity of their narratives not one is as worthy of confidence as it should be. Some have loosed their tongues in extreme censure and condemnation; some foreign chronicles have spoken in a commendatory strain; while a certain section have recorded what they themselves have heard without addressing themselves either to censure or approbation.  AB00003

Besides this the followers of the Bab recount certain messages conveyed [from Him] by the instrumentality of Muhammad Big (amongst which was a promise to heal the foot of the late king, but on condition of an interview, and the suppression of the tyranny of the majority), and the Prime Minister's prevention of the conveyance of these letters to the Royal Presence. At all events in the course of the journey He wrote a letter to the Prime Minister saying, You summoned Me from Isfahan to meet the doctors and for the attainment of a decisive settlement. What has happened now that this excellent intention has been changed for Maku and Tabriz?  AB00003

In this Revelation the Lord of the universe hath deigned to bestow His mighty utterances and resplendent signs upon the Point of the Bayan, and hath ordained them as His matchless testimony for all created things. Indeed, if any living creature were to pause to meditate he would undoubtedly realize that these verses are not the work of man, but are solely to be ascribed unto God, the One, the Peerless, Who causeth them to flow forth from the tongue of whomsoever He willeth, and hath not revealed nor will He reveal them save through the Focal Point of God's Primal Will. He it is, through Whose dispensations divine Messengers are raised up and heavenly Books are sent down.  BB00001

The governor of Fars, acting according to that which the doctors deemed expedient, sent several horsemen, caused the Bab to be brought before him, censured and blamed Him in the presence of the doctors and scholars, and loosed his tongue in the demand for reparation. And when the Bab returned his censure and withstood him greatly, at a sign from the president they struck Him a violent blow, insulting and contemning Him, in such wise that His turban fell from His head and the mark of the blow was apparent on His face. At the conclusion of the meeting they decided to take counsel, and, on receiving bail and surety from His maternal uncle Haji Siyyid 'Ali, sent Him to His house forbidding Him to hold intercourse with relations or strangers.  AB00003

These Manifestations of transcendent oneness have appeared from time immemorial until the time culminated in the first wondrous Manifestation in the final Vesture, and the Primal Point - exalted be His grandeur, sublime be His traces, and glorious be His majesty - arose from the Most Exalted Horizon and guided mankind to the pathway of immortality. Yet all the people clung to their religious leaders from among the divines and turned not to that Essence of Divine Unity, although He appeared with such compelling proof that all found themselves powerless to produce the like thereof. Then they arose in opposition and demanded supernatural signs. That Ancient Being composed the treatise of proofs known as the Seven Proofs, wherein He showed that all evidence and proof culminate in verses.  BH08110

Praise be to God Who created and brought forth a comprehensive, perfect, all-encompassing Point, possessing and containing all universal meanings in the world of existence, wherein all realities, effects and ordinances are integrated and included through simplicity and unity, calling to oneness in all affairs in the realm of being. Then it became detailed, multiplied, branched out and was explained, and revolved in the circle of letters, appearing in the most wonderful forms, becoming a magnet for its spirits, and manifesting with the most beautiful beauty in all ranks and stations. Then it returned and came back to its center in the praiseworthy station. Through its rotation, movement, inclination, beginning and return, the perfect words and exalted letters were realized, and the clear verses were arranged. Thus appeared the Preserved Tablet, the Inscribed Book, and the Outstretched Parchment. So glory be to its Originator, Creator, Former, Detailer and Interpreter, far above what the describers say. And glory be upon you and upon everyone firm and steadfast in God's Covenant and Testament, who is established and rooted in this praiseworthy Cause. AB04615

through the ornament of the Hidden Alif, standing in itself, which was created by virtue of the Point before it... Thus did it shine forth, and become similar, and become manifest, and take form   BB00240

How exalted and powerful, that He referred all letters to the Word, and the Word to the Point, and the Point to a speck of darkness, and made that darkness a Fisher, giving it dwelling on the shore of the sea of eternity!  BH05138


The Primal Point is verily the Truth from thy Lord; let not the deeds of men veil thee.   BH02670

Verily the Primal Point, in His latter Manifestation, speaketh with the Most Glorious tongue   BH03558

I am indeed the Youth heralded by the Primal Point and, before Him, by the Prophets and Messengers.  BH03174

O people, the Primal Point was not as any one among you, nor is this Youth, were ye to know it.  BH02869

The Manifestation was specific to the Primal Point, Who was the Herald of this Most Great Manifestation   BH02840

God beareth witness that there is none other God but Him and that the Point of the Bayan is His servant and His Glory   BH02985

He hath appeared as 'Ali appeared aforetime. Open your eyes that ye may behold Him now upon this most luminous horizon   BH01691

The Exalted Beauty [the Bab] --may my spirit be sacrificed for Him--was the Herald of the Most Great Name and the Supreme Lord of all peoples  AB07948

that Pure Light, that Embodied Spirit, that Brilliant Star of the Supreme Concourse, that Sun of the Higher World, the Primal Point   AB03967

The Herald, the Primal Point, proclaimed "I am the first to worship Him," yet these shameless people strive to lead the servants astray   BH02201

Send Thy blessings upon the Point of the Bayan, our Sovereign, our King, our Lord, our Beloved, and our Desire, in its beginning and its end   BB00133

Every Prophet, from Adam to Baha'u'llah, has shown Himself to be the Logos, (Gospel of John, chapter I), the Demiurge, the Manifestation, the Emanation of the All-Highest Godhead; the Prophet proves His God-given creative power by producing a book, the letters and numerical values of which represent a counterplay (reflection) of transcendent reality.... His Holiness the Bab has found from counting the letters of the phrase: Bismi'llahi'r-Rahmani'r-Rahim that the number 19 represents the mystic basic number of the cosmos (universe). This mystic basic number 19 at the same time represents the Logos, the Manifestation, the Emanation of God, which can at the same time be designated by the "bi" or the point (nuqtih) under the "bi". The Great One - the absolute Godhead (God the Father) in its unfoldment and development of numbers unfolds into the cosmos, the plurality of appearances.  ABU0227

One day the course of conversation Haji Sayad Javad said to me: 'I was a good friend of Haji Sayad Ali, the maternal uncle of the Bab. During my travellings I reached Bushir and inquired about him. They directed me to his office and to my chagrin I found that he has left for Shiraz but the Bab who was then in the efflorescence of his youth was appointed in his place to manage the business of the office. His mustache was just beginning to grow and the signs of manhood appearing in his whole being. As I looked into his young countenance I was wonder-struck with his spiritual dignity, stateliness of manners and the nobleness of his deportment. At the time his holiness was engaged in the business of indigo. After a short conversation I left him impressed with the loftiness of his ethical standard and the purity of his personal character.  Another day I called on him and while I was sitting in his presence several commission men entered the office. He received them with due courtesy and bade them to be seated. After a few preliminary remarks they broke the news that letters are being received from India that the market value of indigo has dropped one or two points. Other merchants were also present and they refuted strongly the assertion made by the commission agents. Pro and Con the conversation lasted for two hours, each side trying to down the other. While the bitter controversy was raging, the Bab sat silent and still and seemed to be not at all interested in the talk which has been going on with such animation. This was rather a crafty device for they intended to buy indigo from the Bab in the absence of his uncle at a lower price than the market value. When they finished their talk, one of them addressing him said: 'Malek-ottojjar has heard that you have in your office many boxes of indigo and he desires to buy some of them from you at the current price. Will you be kind enough to specify your terms?' Up to this moment the Bab had not said a word but now with the utmost calmness and dignity and with as few words and as simple as possible he told them the price and the terms by which the different installments were going to be paid. Loudly and vociferously they protested against the high price and the terms, as it was their wont stating that there must be a reduction. He listened to their words silently and at last getting exasperated at his serene imperturbability they cried: 'What is your wish?' He answered: 'I have already told you. Have I to repeat again the same propositions?' Now they were indeed exasperated. 'What is this new custom?' they bemoaned. 'We have an inherent right to bargain. This shall never be. Are you going to dictate to us? Do you, a young man, know the commercial laws of the country better than we do? Who has ever heard of such strict adherence to one idea? We will not have it. we warn you that if you want to carry on business amongst us you must change this novel, peculiar custom, otherwise no one will approach your office! The Bab just looked into their faces and did not answer them. When they got tired with their harangues and realized that their words produced not the slightest effect they left the office with disgust and grumblings. In an hour they were back with a message from Malek-Ottojjar that he says the price of this indigo is quite high and he begs him to make at least a slight reduction for his sake. 'I have stated in so many words' he said 'the last fixed price and reduction is an impossibility. You are wasting your precious time uselessly.' The commission men were beside themselves with fury and attributed this one-sidedness to his stubbornness and obstinancy. Seeing how futile would be their rage they betook themselves away but soon returned in a chastened mood that the buyer has surrendered and would like to have so many cases. The full terms were drawn up and the cases of indigo were transferred to the store of Malek-ottojjar. A few days passed and in order to gain their point they turned another leaf of double-dealing and pretended the papers were tampered with and certain conditions were incorporated therein by the force of circumstance. Boisterous and noisy they came to the Bab, shouting for a considerable reduction of price and insisting that it must be done immediately. Without heeding their heated protestations he gently said: 'Are you not satisfied with our former stipulations?' They all answered: "Of course not. We are duped, we are hoodwinked!" "Very well, then, you may send back the goods." "What! Sending back the goods!" Who has ever heard of such a thing! You are insulting the dignity and honor of Malek-ottojjar.' (the King of the merchants.) 'Then you do not intend to send them back.' 'No, indeed. We will be considered worse than fools.' Calmly turning only his face to his servant he said: 'Go and take with thyself a number of porters. Call at the store of Malek-ottojjar and ask, in my name, for the cases of indigo. Do not return till you bring them.' The men were so stupefied at this thunderous command that they could not utter a sound and preferred to sit there and see the result. In an hour they were more than amazed to see the servant back with the goods.  This incident was widely circulated in Bushir that Mirza Ali Mohamad has had the daring and courage to precipitate a commercial altercation with the King of the merchants and that his career will be brought to an end by the secret machinations of the powerful man whose dignity has been so sorely wounded. The intimate friends of Aga Sayad Ali called and begged him to go to the enraged man and beg his apology and pardon, intimating that the result of this injured feeling will probably be ruinous to the trade of his uncle. The Bab listened to their advice and said simply:- 'Do not worry about our business. There [is] a God who will protect it from all outside encroachments. ABU0296

Salutation and praise rest upon the Light gleaming in the midmost point of heaven and the Shining Star on the equator, His Exalted Beauty, His Primal Point  AB05488

By the life of God! The Point of the Bayan appeared for My Cause, My remembrance and My praise, and gave the glad-tidings to all of this Manifestation   BH04061

Were it not for My Cause, the Point would not have appeared and the Bayan would not have been revealed - to this testifieth he who is powerful in the Cause.   BH05505

God offered Our authority to the heavens, earth and mountains; they refused to bear it and were afraid of it. But man - God's Great Remembrance, this Ali - undertook it.  BB00002

The Bab, the Exalted One, is the Morn of Truth, the splendour of Whose light shineth through all regions. He is also the Harbinger of the Most Great Light, the Abha Luminary.  AB00203

This is why the Primal Point - may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him - states: "By God! The Hour has come and the moon has been cleft asunder, and all are in continuous resurrection."  ABU0366

The Herald, that is, the Primal Point, hath declared: "Verily, in every state He speaketh: 'I, verily, am God. There is none other God but Me, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.'"   BH10922

God testifieth that there is none other God but Him, the Mighty, the Beauteous, and that the Point of the Bayan is His servant and His splendor unto all who are in the heavens and on earth.  BH10302

We have counseled the servants through the tongue of the Manifestation of My Self, Whom We made the Herald of this mighty and impregnable Cause. He revealed the Bayan solely for My wondrous remembrance.  BH06305

This was when the Bab came who was Ali Mohamed, and according to the Hebrew language, if we take those two words, Elijah and the prophet, it will mean Ali and Mohammed or Ali Mohammed who is the First Point.   ABU0718

Then We adorned the tablet of creation with the ornament of the Primal Point, Who gave the people glad tidings of this wondrous Cause. He began the Book with this Name and sealed it with this beauteous Remembrance.  BH00791

His Holiness the Supreme (Bab) was the morning star heralding the daybreak; he was the herald proclaiming the approaching arrival of the King of Kings, the messenger bringing the Glad news of the appearance of the Kingdom.   ABU0842

First, that in the year Nine thou wast vouchsafed the presence of God, concerning which the Primal Point gave all this glad-tiding in His words: "And in the year Nine ye shall be blessed with attaining the presence of God."   BH04119

The Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - states: "I have written an essence regarding His mention, which is that He cannot be known through My allusion nor through what was revealed in the Bayan."  BH03061

The belief of this evanescent servant is that His Holiness the Exalted One, the Primal Point, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, was the Sun of the highest realm, the Dawning-place of Lordship, and the Herald of the Ancient Beauty.  AB02271

The Bab - may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him - left no veil for the people of the Bayan. He declared that whatever the Desired Beauty would reveal would be the truth, and that all of the Bayan and its contents could not resist even one of His words.  AB01525

O people! This is He for Whose sake the Primal Point sacrificed Himself, then those who took the path unto God. Say: Have ye not read in the Bayan that which was revealed concerning this Manifestation from God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise?   BH00596

O people! The Revealer of the Bayan declared: O concourse of creation! Ye were created for His days. Fear God and be not of those who are veiled. Whoso hath attained unto but one word from Him - this is better for him than all that was revealed in the Bayan.   BH04502

By His life! He breathed naught save mention of this Most Great Remembrance, giving unto the people glad tidings of this Hidden Pearl, and the Dove of the Bayan warbled not save in My praise and glorification, as witnessed by such servants as are endowed with insight.   BH01153

The Primal Point is manifest in His own self, and His lights and effulgences have illumined the worlds of the seen and unseen. Thou regardest Him not, yet through His words, of which thou hast never understood a single letter, thou seekest to prove the truth for His enemies.  BH00004

In any case, the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - in view of the existence of this Manifestation and its dawning in those days, completed all the Bayan with this Most Great Remembrance, lest the people of the Bayan be debarred from the All-Merciful.   BH01405

The wondrous Manifestation appeared in the year sixty and gave tidings to the people of this most great Manifestation, as has been explicitly stated throughout the Bayan. And besides Him, whosoever has stood firm in His Cause and followed what was revealed - these are guides unto Him.   BH00890

the Primal Point, His Holiness the Exalted One - may my spirit be sacrificed for Him - is the Manifestation of Supreme Lordship and the Herald of the Beauty of Abha and the Sun of Truth and the Essence of Singleness and the Revelation of Divinity, the Most Great Luminary of the higher world   AB02932

Then I made Myself known on the Day of Resurrection through the Point of the Bayan, whereupon all My servants were veiled save those who recognized Me and were assured of My signs. Then I chose them for Myself and selected for them the most exalted life and raised them unto Me by My command.   BB00111

Say, He is the most perfect Balance amongst nations. Through Him the measure assigned unto everything hath been revealed by virtue of the Will of the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. He consecrated the Bayan as a leaf unto this Garden and adorned it with the praise of this incomparable Remembrance.   BH01928

Consider Hassan-i-Bajistani: when he was present in Iraq before Us, he entertained doubts concerning the Cause of the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - which he presented before Our countenance, and received the answer directly from the tongue of the Manifestation of Divine Unity.   BH00312

bear thou witness in thy soul and being, with the tongue which God hath placed within thee, that there is none other God but Him, and that He Who was sent with the name of 'Ali is verily the Truth from His presence, though most of the people perceive it not. Through Him appeared the Kingdom of Names and Attributes  BH02438

His Holiness the Exalted One - may my spirit and my very being be sacrificed for Him - laid down His life for that All-Effulgent Lamp and guided His lovers to self-sacrifice and martyrdom. May my spirit, my inner being, my reality, my truth, my identity, my hidden and manifest self be offered up for a single drop of His pure blood.  AB08119

Consider how the Bab endured difficulties and tribulations; how He gave His life in the Cause of God; how He was attracted to the love of the Blessed Beauty, Baha'u'llah; and how He announced the glad tidings of His manifestation. We must follow His heavenly example; we must be self-sacrificing and aglow with the fire of the love of God.  ABU0346

Thou hast been raised up and there is none above thee in elevation, then thou hast descended and there is none like thee in humility. How lofty is thy station and how glorious thy rank, wherein God hath honored thee with faith in the Manifestation of His Self before all things and hath created in thee the word of the Covenant before all things.   BB00223

Magnify Thou, O Lord my God, Him Who is the Primal Point, the Divine Mystery, the Unseen Essence, the Dayspring of Divinity, and the Manifestation of Thy Lordship, through Whom all the knowledge of the past and all the knowledge of the future were made plain, through Whom the pearls of Thy hidden wisdom were uncovered, and the mystery of Thy treasured name disclosed  BH00778

The Most Exalted Herald, the Primal Point - may the spirit of all else but Him be sacrificed for His sake - hath declared: "I have written the essence concerning His mention: He shall not be known through My allusions, nor through what hath been revealed in the Bayan." The Primal Point in the highest realm uttereth the blessed words "Verily, I am the first to worship."   BH00753

Whoso knoweth of a certainty that He is the Point of the Qur'an manifested in His Resurrection, and the Point of the Bayan in His first Revelation, and that He is the Primal Will Who existeth by Himself, the Self-Subsistent, while all things are created by His bidding, and exist by Him, he is numbered among those whose inmost realities have testified unto the unity of his Lord.  BB00001

When the Bab reached Tabriz they brought Him after some days before the government tribunal. Of the learned doctors the Nizamu'l-'Ulama, Mulla Muhammad-i-Mamaqani, Mirza Ahmad the Imam-Jum'ih, Mirza 'Ali-Asghar the Shaykhu'l-Islam, and several other divines were present. They asked concerning the claims of the Bab. He advanced the claim of Mihdi-hood; whereon a mighty tumult arose.  AB00003

Thou didst create me, O my God, in the realm of creation from the beginning that hath no beginning until Thou didst bring me to this hour. I bear witness, and so doth every thing, that Thou hast brought all things into being through me, and I do observe the paths which Thou hast established among Thy creation, whereby all do worship Thee, glorify Thee, sanctify Thee, unite with Thee, and magnify Thee.   BB00099

Behold, behold how the Countenance hath turned toward thee from the direction of the Prison. Hearken, hearken to God's call from His mighty Throne: "Verily, there is none other God but He, the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous." He speaketh before the faces of the world and summoneth them to a station wherein naught is seen save the lights of the countenance of their Lord, the All-Merciful, the All-Knowing.   BH00387

As He states in one place - exalted be His mention: Say: I have descended to where I said I am an atom and less than an atom, just as I have said I am the Lord and Creator of every possessor of lordship... If you had insight, you would be convinced that from the beginning of His manifestation until His ascension, He beheld none but Himself, to such an extent that His blessed eyes fell only upon His blessed countenance.  BH00004

Observe the comprehensiveness of the favors, for the ultimate hope of the Luminary of the Kingdom, the Morning of Guidance, the Primal Point, His Holiness the Exalted One, may my spirit be sacrificed for Him, was that the Countenance of the Intended One, the Beauty of the Adored One, the Sun of Truth, His Holiness "Him Whom God shall make manifest" would make mention of that Tree of Sinai on the Day of His Manifestation.   AB02047

Blessing, salutation and praise rest upon the Primal Point - that Light of Divine Guidance and the Flame illuminating the concourse on high, the Dawning-Place of the Luminary shining from the realms above, and the Day Spring of splendors from the Abha Kingdom, the Manifestation of the Great Sign and the Source of Divine Illumination from the horizon of the concourse on high, from His Lord, the Glory of the Most Glorious.   AB00816

How lofty is thy station and how glorious thy rank, wherein God hath honored thee with faith in the Manifestation of His Self before all things and hath created in thee the word of the Covenant before all things. Through thee hath God opened the gates of the Bayan and created the essences of Paradise. There is no right after God like thy right over all who dwell in the kingdom of the heavens and earth and what lies between them.   BB00223

Glory be unto Thee, O my God! How insignificant is my mention and whatever is attributed to me when I wish to ascribe it unto Thee. Accept me and whatever is attributed to me through Thy grace, for Thou art the best of those who show grace. O heedless ones among the people of the Bayan! Despite such humility from the Primal Point regarding His subsequent manifestation, you remain unaware and occupy yourselves with such utterances.  BH00004

The Manifestations are as suns in the Heaven of the Divine Will. Sometimes the sun and moon are far apart; for instance, in the middle of month they are 180 degrees from each other. But in the beginning and end of the lunar month they are only one degree apart. In the Qur'an Muhammad prophesied that in this Day the Sun and Moon will meet in Heaven; that is, the spiritual Sun and Moon of this Dispensation will rise together in the form of man.   ABU0107

Indeed ye have been called into being through the power of the Point of the Bayan while the Point Himself is resigned to the Will of Him Whom God shall make manifest, is exalted through His transcendent sublimity, is sustained by the evidences of His might, is glorified by the majesty of His oneness, is adorned by the beauty of His singleness, is empowered by His eternal dominion and is invested with authority through His everlasting sovereignty.  BB00525

Verily the Tree of the Bayan was the first tree raised up in truth, and it spoke: "I am God, the Mighty, the Generous." Through it the fire was kindled in existence and the beauty of the Worshipped One appeared to every seeing eye. Through it the face of polytheism was veiled and the beauty of divine unity dawned from the dayspring of the name All-Knowing. Through it the idols were shattered and God was established upon the throne of manifest might.   BH01811

And in the first book which He wrote in explanation of the Surih of Joseph, He addressed Himself in all passages to that Person unseen from Whom He received help and grace, sought for aid in the arrangement of His preliminaries, and craved the sacrifice of life in the way of His love. Amongst others is this sentence: O Remnant of God, I am wholly sacrificed to Thee; I am content with curses in Thy way; I crave naught but to be slain in Thy love; and God the Supreme sufficeth as an Eternal Protection.  AB00003

However, when we include His Holiness the Commander among the twelve, His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) is the Promised One of the Qur'an and the final of the pure Imams, since what is meant by the twelfth Imam who is the Promised Qa'im is His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), for in the Qur'anic dispensation He is the Promised Mahdi and in this wondrous dispensation the Primal Point and Dawn of Guidance and Herald of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB04093

When the above-mentioned Siyyid arrived at Shiraz he interviewed the Bab three times. In the first and second conferences questioning and answering took place; in the third conference he requested a commentary on the Surih called Kawthar in his presence, the above-mentioned Siyyid was charmed and enraptured with Him, and straightway, without consideration for the future or anxiety about the results of this affection, hastened to Burujird to his father Siyyid Ja'far, known as Kashfi, and acquainted him with the matter.  AB00003

The doctors, however, considered it advisable at least to inflict a severe chastisement, and beating was decided on. Now when the news of this beating, chastisement, imprisonment, and rigor reached all parts of Persia, learned divines and esteemed lawyers who were possessed of power and influence girt up the loins of endeavor for the eradication and suppression of this sect, exerting their utmost efforts therefore. And they wrote notice of their decision, to wit that this person and his followers are in absolute error and are hurtful to Church and State.  AB00003

Among the people are those who object that "thou dost claim a different station each day". Say: Yea, by My Lord! I am, at every moment, in a new condition, and I desire not to remain fixed in any station. I beseech God to raise Me at every instant to a station more exalted than before. Without this, the essence of My heart would not be content, were ye but to know. Say: This remembrance is not from Me except according to your capacity. Otherwise, God hath established Me in a station that knoweth neither increase nor decrease. Whatsoever appeareth from Me, God manifesteth it by His command according to a prescribed measure, lest the hearts of the unitarians be disturbed.  Remember, O people, when the Revealer of the Bayan came to you with novel and holy verses, saying: "I am the Gate of Knowledge, and whoso believeth concerning Me more than this hath indeed fabricated a calumny and earned for himself a grievous sin." Then He said: "I am verily the promised Qa'im Whose appearance was promised you in sacred scrolls." Then did He, exalted be His remembrance, declare: "I am the Primal Point, which is indeed Muhammad, the Messenger of God, as ye have heard and witnessed in the Tablets of God, the Sovereign, the All-Wise." When the essence of certain souls had been elevated, He then rent asunder the veil and rose from the Holy Dayspring, proclaiming: "I am God, there is no God but Me, your Lord and the Lord of all worlds. I am He Who, from the beginning that hath no beginning, hath been one God, Single, Unique, Alone, Self-Subsisting. I have taken neither partner, nor likeness, nor vizier, nor peer. I have sent Prophets and Messengers from the beginning of beginnings and shall continue to send them unto the end of endings." BH00376

By thy life, this Cause is more wondrous than the Cause of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, would ye but ponder it. Say: He was raised up at a time when he had attained unto forty years of age, and the Book was revealed unto him over twenty-three years, until God established the truth through His signs. Verily He hath power over all things. He was raised up among those who speak the tongue of the Qur'an and glory therein. But God, my Lord, hath manifested me after I had attained twenty-five years of age, as a mercy from His presence. Verily He hath been gracious unto me. God hath opened unto me the gates of all verses, that I might recite them as I please, by His leave. Verily He is nigh unto me. By thy life, if We willed, We could manifest it in the space of two nights and two days, to the measure of the Qur'an. Thus doth God cause to ascend whomsoever He willeth by His command.  BB00004