The heart is like a box, and language is the key. Only by using the key can we open the box and observe the gems it contains.  ABU1584

Our swords are the Words of Light.  ABU1806

Today the Speaker of the Mount is speaking   BH08765

Open your tongue and observe eloquent speech.   AB06641

and speaking tongues uttering the praise of God  AB07107

shall cause the fragrance of utterance to endure   BH10936

Let your tongue become eloquent in praise of God   AB05056

Open thy eloquent tongue and make fluent utterance.  AB04840

May thy tongue be moved to utter beautiful explanations   AB06453

and chanted verses of praise to Thee in mighty gatherings  AB05991

loose his tongue in the field of remembrance and utterance  AB04949

thy tongue may flow like a torrent in the great gatherings  AB02456

Victory hath been ordained through remembrance and utterance  BH10310

and hath ordained victory through remembrance and utterance   BH07522

It inspireth eloquent speech and teacheth wondrous meanings.  AB10064

loosen your tongue in utterance, give free rein in this field  AB10690

Today is the day of the tongue, for it was created for praise.   BH09286

How concise and beneficial, how eloquent and articulate it is!   AB03634

One word kindleth the fire of love while another extinguisheth it.   BH01368

It is the season of seed-sowing and of propagating the Word of God.  ABU3320

The tongue speaketh and the heart calleth out and the fingers point   BH10079

Until detachment is achieved, a person's words will have no effect.   AB04861

speak for the sake of God and remind His creation of Him for His sake  BH03286

Open an eloquent tongue and become vocal in teaching the Cause of God  AB03873

There hath appeared in creation that which hath never appeared before.  BH07617

The triumph of the Cause hath been and ever shall be through utterance  BH02498

Today is the day of the divine call and the voice is the voice of God   AB07083

The Word of God is the quickener of bodies and the resurrector of souls  BH11428

The triumph of God's Cause is through wisdom and utterance, naught else   BH09742

and the trees did speak, and the Herald called out from every direction   BH04464

The mind will become fragrant and speech will become elegant discourse.   AB03210

O hearing of the worlds! Hearken to the call of the Lord, the All-Merciful   BH11390

O Thou at Whose Name the stones have cried out and the kernels have spoken   BH10647

and the tongue that hath spoken My praise amidst the concourse of creation   BH08579

One word is like the vernal winds, while another is like the deadly simoom.   BH06030

He made the tongue a drawn sword and meanings and utterance a penetrating arrow  AB09878

The effect of your jewel-scattering pen brought about spiritual joy and delight  AB05143

Thou must speak such words as will kindle the souls, through divine assistance.   BH04261

The sword of utterance has been and ever will be sharper than the sword of steel   BH04710

whereby a leaf addresseth the leaders with decisive words and conclusive discourse  AB09059

Utterance is effective, especially if it proceedeth from pure and detached hearts.   BH03739

Loose thy tongue and teach, and let thy face be bright with the fire of God's love.  AB05247

We have adorned the heaven of utterance with the ornament of meaning and exposition   BH03354

from thy movement and stillness may appear that which will attract minds and hearts   BH02537

He speaks in all things: 'There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the All-Wise.'   BH09922

It is my hope that you will obtain ... eloquent, expressive and excellent discourse.   ABU3172

remember thy Lord with a tongue whereby the hearts of the heedless would be attracted   BH05740

you possess an eloquent tongue in teaching and are the essence of wisdom in utterance   AB05564

within the blessed words "verily He is praised in His deeds and obeyed in His command"   BH11336

When thou hast been favored with this Tablet, recite it in the most melodious of tunes   BH05154

I beseech God that day by day you may become more confirmed and more eloquent in speech  AB07318

the divine sword of the tongue is that which opens in praise of God and guides the lost  AB10507

The Sun of Utterance hath testified, and the Moon hath declared "Well done! Well done!"   BH09713

When this is attained, the language will become eloquent and the utterance penetrating.   AB06342

From His horizon He speaks the truth and summons the people to the Mighty, the Bestower.   BH03337

Blessed are they who speak the truth and hold fast to wisdom and utterance at all times.   BH00385

The bird does not sing except when warbling, and the lamp does not shine except when lit.  AB01414

Such a world-consuming flame blazed forth from within that control slipped from my hands   AB01268

Thus have We kindled the fire of utterance that through it all creation might be set ablaze  BH07014

Strike up the melody of servitude and awaken the world with the tune and song of servitude.   AB03472

In the gatherings and meetings he adorned his discourse with mention of your words and deeds  AB12310

This is what the Tongue of Grandeur uttered: "He is the Powerful over whatsoever He willeth"   BH00291

The divine sword is utterance and speech, and proof and evidence, and the reality of knowledge  AB06902

thy tongue shall utter fluently and distinctly the most eloquent and clear words and thoughts   AB06426

You open your tongue in praise of God and plant the sapling of truth in the gardens of hearts   AB01361

When one opens the tongue of teaching, one becomes enkindled and moves by the breeze of grace.  AB12115

It would have been more pleasing in the sight of God if you had informed him in a loving manner  BH08646

Say: O ye who drink the choice wine of utterance, know ye your worth and preserve your stations  BH05376

Make mention of Him in such wise that through thee His mention and praise may be spread abroad.  BH11829

One word is like unto fire that consumeth, and another word is like unto light that illumineth.  BH11709

women will develop eloquent speech and persuasive expression that will render others speechless  AB00943

We must encourage the believers in public-speaking and especially encourage those who can do so.  ABU2052

They are thinking and waging war, you practice Peace and conciliation... Cry out the word Peace.  ABU0325

loose thy tongue and deliver an eloquent speech and express fully what is inspired to thy heart!  AB04739

With the utmost courage, thou didst unloose thine eloquent tongue and deliver a persuasive speech.  AB04785

No cry is raised but that an answer descends from the Kingdom of the utterance of the All-Merciful.  BH07903

All meanings have appeared in a concise word - this is what is intended, were ye of those who know.   BH07740

The fragrance of pure deeds pervadeth and penetrateth, and influenceth the hearts and minds of men.   BH05339

Read thou the words of God in thy days... Thus hath the Command been, if thou be of them that know.   BH01520

Therefore, at all times strive with the utmost effort to exalt the Word and illumine hearts and eyes  AB06451

The Spirit that hath appeared from the holy horizon be upon thee and upon every discerning believer.   BH02935

This is the food that conferreth everlasting life upon the pure in heart and the illumined in spirit.  BH00002

due to the intensity of attraction to the love of the divine friends, the pen has sprung into motion   AB01578

Blessed art thou, and blessed is thy tongue, for having spoken in remembrance of this Most Great News   BH09638

Aid thy Lord through utterance and associate with those who make mention of God in private and in public  BH01921

and speak forth the blessed and goodly Word that hath been sent down from the Pen of the Divine Command.   BH10205

We have revealed therein that whereby the fragrance of utterance hath been wafted throughout all creation   BH10819

Be truthful, enthralled, and full of fervour so that the truth may become fully realised in your meetings.  AB04481

Today one word from this pen suffices, for there is no time, and one word has the effect of an entire book  AB03483

Ink becomes an eloquent tongue of justice and paper becomes a mirror reflecting the mysteries of the world.   AB00571

Through him the lips of utterance smiled throughout all possibility and the Nightingale sang upon the branches.  BH00040

In reality, all the souls are silent and speechless, but be thou a speaker. God willing, thou wilt become such.  AB07513

With a spiritual pen, at every moment he writes a divine letter, and this is accomplished with the utmost speed  AB05700

When asked by what proof, recite thou this Tablet from whose horizon hath shone the Sun of wisdom and utterance.  BH08083

There is nothing that doth not speak forth in this Most Great Revelation and give glad tidings unto the peoples.   BH04956

Whosoever in this Day utters a single word of truth, that word will forever surge and move and will never perish.  AB09645

Then all his words and deeds will tend toward the glorification of the Cause and the promotion of the Principles   ABU2670

My Word is My armor and whoso attaineth unto it, the darts of the idolaters, all of them, shall not harm him.   BH06771

"It was an eloquent interpreter of spirit and conscience, and a fluent and articulate expositor of heart and soul."  AB02912

The mode of His discourse and the style of His utterances were a cause of wonder and were without peer or likeness.   ABU3294

We have answered thee with this Tablet whereby the fragrance of utterance hath been wafted throughout all possibility  BH05034

open your tongue in such wise that like a flame of fire it will burn and melt the hearts of both friend and stranger   AB04521

whenever the name of that Peerless Beloved passes over any tongue, it bestows spiritual wine and divine exhilaration   AB06134

Then open thy tongue in utterance, for the Spirit will aid thee from the presence of the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.   BH01023

to free your tongues in utterance of eloquent words and excellent meanings and mysteries in the gathering of the pious  AB05944

victory lieth not in the sword and its like, but victory lieth in the tongue and what proceedeth therefrom of utterance  BH01690

Take hold of God's verses with the power granted by Us and say: Praise be to Thee, O Manifestation of clear evidences!   BH00289

Some material things have a spiritual effect. The spoken words cause a vibration which produces an effect upon the ear.  ABU3428

Encourage your daughters whether in the house of elsewhere in speaking. Give them a chance so that they also may speak.   AB00565

when it was raised from the human Tree with perfect eloquence and rhetoric in the most wondrous melodies, they denied it   AB03189

Speak for the sake of God, for a word spoken for His sake is like unto a tree whose fruit will surely appear in the world.  BH03182

Call it not a letter but rather a rose garden, for the sweet-scented breezes of love for the loved ones of God waft from it  AB03710

If thou hadst built and developed the entire world with thine own hands, verily it would not equal one word of these verses.  BH03000

Whosoever opens an eloquent tongue and makes an expressive utterance will receive the decree of favors from the Abha Kingdom  AB04508

Through Him the Kingdom of Utterance moved and the Sun of Knowledge shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of the Tablet   BH04032

Yet the pen of contingent being lacks the power to express, and the tablets of existence cannot contain this manifest bounty   BH02450

The power of speech and utterance was created for the mention of this station. Hold fast unto it and be of the thankful ones.  BH01174

Unsheathe the sword of your tongue from the scabbard of utterance, for therewith ye can conquer the citadels of men's hearts.  BH00005

Talent should be a fountain of knowledge and wisdom, from which praises and tributes to the Blessed Beauty should flow forth.  AB02689

God hath made thy heart a repository of His remembrance, that there might appear from it the pearls of remembrance and praise   BH03366

through Him were loosened the tongues of all created things proclaiming: The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the Revealer of verses  BH08347

Whoever in this day utters a single word of truth, that word will forever be in motion and surge forward and will never perish.  AB09645

It behooveth man to bring forth that which will gladden mankind, not that which will cause the lamentations of nations to arise.  BH02803

By silence is meant spiritual silence, otherwise the Pen moveth with such swiftness that its reckoning is beyond comprehension.   BH01942

This speech in reality is very eloquent. I supplicate to God that a great effect might be produced in the hearts of the hearers.  AB03136

to strengthen me in such wise that through my speech Thou mayest open the doors of the ears of the world to hearken unto Thy call  BH10065

O friends! Strive that ye may attain and possess that which is befitting - a word that is sanctified above change and extinction.   BH05657

O Pen! Gallop and sacrifice your life! Make a heavenly charge and show forth the power of the favors of the Most Glorious Beauty!   AB02042

Speak forth the verses of thy Lord whereby hearts are melted and the breasts of them that have advanced towards God are set aflame   BH10704

The ocean of divine knowledge hath surged through My utterance and the fragrances of the All-Merciful have been stirred by My call   BH02813

Then will thy words influence the hearts of the servants and from them will spread the fragrances of the Cause throughout all lands   BH03722

Although it is unaware of its own speech, you, God willing, will speak words whose meanings you will first conceive and then utter.   AB06750

"make his pen flow across the pages with a flow that demonstrates the shining of light through the outpouring of abundant knowledge"  AB11686

The weapons of the divine friends are peace and reconciliation, and their world-conquering sword is utterance, expression and speech.  AB07442

At that time thou wilt become fluent in tongue and thou wilt speak in most eloquent words through the confirmation of the Holy Spirit  AB06430

You are eloquent, articulate, fluent and knowing. You are far from silence and quietude, and restless beyond patience and stillness.   AB12098

Nevertheless, at all times the tongue remained eloquent and the Pen in motion to such a degree that all pens are powerless to reckon it  BH05333

Be thou so enkindled with the love of God that should one of the idolaters confront thee, he would be unable to speak in thy presence.   BH02163

God shall surely enable thee [to speak] in more eloquent and wonderful words through a confirmation from the Spirit of the gift of God.  AB04599

humor that is in reality pure seriousness clothed in the garment of humor is more pleasant and attractive, for its influence is greater   AB04673

Thou art he who hath been faithful to God's Covenant and His Testament, and hath spoken that which made the back of polytheism to quake.   BH02311

Today is the day of utterance and the time for melody and song. Adorn the gathering of exposition and loose the tongue of divine knowledge  AB09357

for a single deed emanating from the essence of sanctity will promote the Cause such that its fragrant breezes will spread to all regions.  AB06272

The poems were in the utmost of sweetness, flowing from a nature imbued with the love of God. Let them be read and sung in the assemblies.  AB06341

O servant! Do thou aid thy Lord through utterance in such wise that the fragrance of the Garment may be wafted among all contingent beings.  BH04210

When you find the fragrance of My utterance and behold the pearls of My remembrance which We have brought forth from the treasuries of My Pen  BH05896

He spoke that which he was commanded before all faces. Glorified be He Who caused him to speak, made him to know, and drew him nigh unto Him.  BH03410

This is the Day of remembrance and utterance, did ye but know it, and this is the Day of proof and evidence, could ye but understand it.  BH11667

In remembrance and utterance may they become an endless ocean, and in the essence of expression may they open an eloquent and fluent tongue.   AB06586

Through His appearance the ocean of utterance surged in the contingent world, and by His uprising the people arose for the Lord of the worlds.  BH00349

Hold thou fast in all circumstances to wisdom and utterance, lest the cawing of those who have denied God, the Lord of all worlds, be raised.   BH03868

raise such a cry that would awaken the sleeping ones and cause those who are extinguished to become enkindled with the fire of the love of God  AB05246


You yourself know what that pure water Says to the flowers and saplings You yourself know what the sun in Aries Says to the flowers and thorns   BH01604

Through His Most Exalted Word, illumined the world of kingdom and dominion with the lights of the manifestation of Him Who conversed upon Sinai  BH04438

surely ears will be found that were created from the element of spirit and brought into being from the wondrous natures of the abundant realms   AB02991

In this Most Great Revelation, victory hath been ordained through word and utterance. Thus hath the matter been decreed in the perspicuous Book   BH07549

Despite the simplicity of speech, the confirmations of the Abha Kingdom arrived and, through the favors of the Blessed Beauty, had their effect.  AB12187

By the life of God, thou shalt find thy tongue to be a sharp and unsheathed sword with which thou shalt conquer the realms of hearts and spirits  AB11390

The heavens have been adorned with the ornament of verses and the earth hath been illumined by the lights of His Face that was and that shall be.  BH00257

Therefore if you possess a talent for clear inspiration and flowing expression, open your speech to these truths and meanings and give full voice   AB06590

until we sing like Thy holy birds in the gardens, swim like the fish of Thy sea in the pools, and roar like the lions of Thy thicket in the woods   AB01374

Ponder thou on what hath been revealed in truth, then read it with the melody of the heart - verily it attracts the servants to the straight path.   BH03540

And this despite all created things, through their own deeds and transformations, giving counsel in most eloquent utterance and reminding mankind.   BH03329

A word that ascendeth from the heaven of the heart and shineth forth from the horizon of the tongue for the sake of God will assuredly have effect.   BH02385

Open your tongue in praise of that Kind Friend Who has made such an overflowing chalice of utterance and brimming goblet of exposition to overflow.   AB02721

With reinforced hearts, strong resolution and heavenly assistance may you loose your tongues, deliver eloquent speeches and promote the Word of God.  ABU1044

Verily, if thou hearest what the Beauty of Knowledge hath taught thee, by God thy word would influence all things, nay every firm and lofty mountain.  BH03307

Now from your brief letter, indeed from the first letter of the name alone, countless books of love, fellowship, affection, and unity can be derived.  BH01295

The meaning of an iron scepter or the sword or the sword is the tongue of His Holiness which divided the truth from untruth, or truth from falsehood.   ABU1558

He verily speaketh at all times verses that bewilder the minds of the wise, the knowledge of the mystics, and the hearts of the accomplished ones.   BH00358

The wine of divine secrets must be quaffed in holy and intimate gatherings, and the candle of mysteries must be enkindled in the lamp of the pure heart.  AB01734

We speak in the Persian tongue so that every soul may find the purpose and perchance partake of a drop from the Kawthar of the All-Merciful's utterance.   BH02177

Today the Sun of Certitude hath risen, the Straight Path is manifest, the banners of verses are unfurled, and the standards of guidance are visible.  BH08495

You heard with your own ears His life-giving divine call from His purified mouth, and in the Most Holy Court were favored to hear the all-embracing Word   AB03218

so that each may, with eloquent speech and fluent tongue, establish in the gatherings of the world conclusive proofs and evidences of the Most Great Name.  AB01547

"Mirza Ahmad is accustomed to the Western way of living. He cannot live like the Arabs. He has a too sensitive nature. He must have a cup of fresh milk."   ABU0764

"From the radiance of the sun full of light, the blind eye receives nothing but heat." They feel the warmth of the sun but not the effulgence of its rays.  ABU0561

O Ali! Hearken unto the Voice of the Wronged One and know thou of a certainty that this is that Voice which Moses heard from the Sinai of divine knowledge.  BH08574

Raise thou a clarion call to high heaven and lift thy voice with a heartfelt cry...Become the confidant of divine mysteries and melodies. Stir up an outcry  AB06229

The scratching of the Most Exalted Pen is raised to such a degree that the tongues of the world and the pens of nations are powerless to make mention of it.  BH03300

By My life, I remain silent at a time when from My utterance hath flowed the ocean of wisdom and knowledge, and from My tongue the river of mercy and proof.   BH02857

now it is hoped that he will draw forth the sword of the tongue from the scabbard of the mouth and through the power of utterance conquer the realm of hearts  AB08614

Consider what the All-Merciful has revealed in the Qur'an that you may be assured I speak only what God, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, has spoken.  BH01933

Were anyone to ponder what hath flowed from the Pen of the All-Merciful in this wise Remembrance, he would know what none hath known save whom thy Lord willeth   BH02147

They must be nourished at all times from the Kawthar of utterance, that all may appear and become manifest with delicate, radiant leaves and pure, sweet fruits.   BH02996

One word that betokens the love of God is a detailed book, and one melody raised in praise and glorification of the Loving Lord is a matchless and peerless song.  AB09177

That which hath been revealed from the direction of the Throne unto him who hath been named Ibrahim, that he may be mindful of the remembrance of God, the All-Wise   BH11429

whosoever attaineth unto hearing them will behold the world as a handful of dust and the diverse colors of the world will not make him heedless of the Lord of Names  BH07565

In the rosebush of inner meanings thou didst raise such a melody with divine accent that thou didst utterly destroy the cawing of crows and the croaking of ravens.   AB05061

Today all atoms are observed to be in a state of utmost attraction and excitement, for they have perceived the fragrance of the garment of Joseph of inner meanings.   BH08024

And We beseech Him to cause to flow from thy pen and tongue that which will illumine breasts and open the cities of the hearts of those who have turned towards Him.   BH05188

"You are shouting although you are silent, but your words will be heard in the future. The words of Christ were not heard until three hundred years after His death."  ABU2814

One who never attended schools nor witnessed debates, yet with the most exalted call proclaimed and continues to proclaim before the faces of the divines and princes   BH07266

The tongue was created for these days. Beware lest thou restrain it through vain imaginings. Speak forth in praise of thy Lord in such wise as to attract the spirits   BH02117

And that is the power of utterance - that thou shouldst open thy tongue and voice, teach the Cause of God, and speak with such eloquence that all women will be amazed  AB08190

Although ordinary sound and melody are merely vibrations of air and physical qualities, nevertheless when they reach the auditory nerve they cause the spirit to stir.  ABU1167

Thou wilt open thy tongue with the bounty of the All-Merciful in such a way that with wondrous melodies thou wilt cause the people of the Supreme Concourse to cry out   AB01599

Man must become the interpreter of the heart and the expounder of heavenly revelation. In this state, he speaks in every tongue and truthfully expresses in all languages.  AB06816

that each one present shall, in great assemblies, with an eloquent tongue and a heart flooded with the love of God, set himself to acclaiming the rise of the Sun of Truth  AB10091

I swear by the Sovereign of all possibility that this is a Day wherein not a single letter appeareth except that it is recorded by the Pen of Destiny in the Manifest Book   BH02775

In this material world there is also a material language of the heart. In this material world there is also a material language of the heart and by which the hearts speak.  ABU2173

His Holiness Ali (peace be upon him) says: "Man is folded in the fold of his tongue." What is the tongue in the mouth of the wise? The key to the door of the treasure of talent  AB00879

Although writing and speaking can express what is in the heart, the realm of words falls short in fully conveying divine meanings. It is but an indication, an allusion, a sign.  AB02516

I hope that you will acquire a tongue of utmost eloquence and fluency and in gatherings and meetings speak in such a way as to bring the attendees to a state of joy and delight   AB07386

The eloquent tongue is the tongue of consciousness. Praise be to God that that tongue is explaining the real feelings of the hearts and expresses our spiritual susceptibilities.  ABU2778

You must manifest in gatherings of the loved ones and meetings of the chosen ones an eloquent tongue, a brilliant proof, evident attraction, fluent speech and elevated utterance.   AB05720

By God! The hearing ear perceiveth from all things their lamentation and their cry by reason of what hath befallen the Manifestation of the Self of the All-Merciful through sorrows   BH06044

The greatest sword is the tongue. Its authority and sway is over hearts. The sword of steel sheds blood; the sword of speech bestows life. One takes away life; the other grants it.   ABU2525

A kindly tongue is the lodestone of the hearts of men. It is the bread of the spirit, it clotheth the words with meaning, it is the fountain of the light of wisdom and understanding.  BH00005

Those which strive to speak only that which is truth, which hold the mirror up to truth, are like the sun: they light the world everywhere with truth and their work is imperishable.   ABU3165

This is the Day of vision, that one may behold, and the Day of hearing, that one may hearken, and the Day of utterance, that one may voice the praise of the Beloved of all possibility.  BH10082

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of grace that the drops of the ocean of utterance are more beneficial to the people of the earth than the effulgences of the sun and the spring rains   BH03206

We have sent down the blessing of proof and the table of utterance from the heaven of grace and bounty. Blessed is he who hath attained unto them, and woe unto every ungrateful denier   BH02499


O concourse of the world! By God, the Most Great Name hath come, which was inscribed by the Most Exalted Pen in every unfurled scroll, every sealed book, and every recorded tablet.   BH07187

Reflect upon the penetrating influence of the Supreme Pen and the power of the Most Exalted Word. Its traces are manifest from every direction and its fruits evident from every quarter.   BH02856

Open ye the eloquent tongues and utter ye fluent speeches. Sing ye such a melody that while I am in the East I may hear its clear echo and all the Baha'is may become rejoiced and happy.   AB05477

The lights of the love of God were shining from the lamp of meanings and the glass of words and expressions, and the rays of certitude and assurance were radiant in the niche of phrases   AB00899

The child has no worries, cares for nothing, but this is due to his weakness. He does not seek honour, he does not seek wealth, and so on. This is due to the weakness of his will power.   ABU2723

At all times doth the Pen of the All-Merciful counsel those who drink of the wine of utterance to that which is the cause of tranquility for all and the means of exaltation of the Cause.   BH08142

"Verily thy letter was received and I was informed of thy chanting the verses of GOD in the Spiritual Assemblies, of thy excellent speech and eloquent address in the illumined gatherings."  AB01623

they would stand and speak in such a way that no one would have any opportunity for denial or objection. Rather, all became enthralled and attracted, and showed the utmost honor and respect   ABU1299

Such is His grace that, as thou seest, He speaketh in place of him who hath no tongue, and maketh mention of him - a mention that shall cause souls to be mindful throughout ages and centuries.  BH07895

Well is it with thy mouth for having drunk the choice wine of utterance, and with thy pen for having moved in remembrance of this Remembered One through Whom the horizons have been illumined.   BH02784

References to the transformative power of divine utterance: "Thus have We adorned the horizon of utterance with the light of explanation" and guidance to use "wisdom and utterance" in teaching   BH02055

Thy mission now is this: Travel as much as possible to different parts of America, pass through cities and villages (or towns), guide all to the Beauty of ABHA and raise the call of the Kingdom   AB02173

In the course of My journey to America one could witness how, in great assemblages and imposing churches, the spirit of divine assistance would begin to surge upon the utterance of a single word  AB00472

Aid ye your Lord, the God of Mercy, with the sword of understanding. Keener indeed is it, and more finely tempered, than the sword of utterance, were ye but to reflect upon the words of your Lord.  BH00007

They adorn assemblies with eloquent speech and embellish pages with fluent expression. They have kindled the ignited fire of the love of God and become moths consumed by the candle of the Covenant.  AB11637

Within the very breath of such souls as are pure and sanctified far-reaching potentialities are hidden. So great are these potentialities that they exercise their influence upon all created things.   BH06035

Consider how through their negative words, some can change an eager seeker into one disinterested and indifferent. Yet sometimes, just a single word causes guidance and the awakening of a multitude.   ABU0824


Of course, a person sings a joyous song only when he himself is delighted and rapturous. Thus when one begins to guide others and adduces proofs, then his taste becomes sweeter and his heart more joyful.  ABU0432

This is a Day wherein the Gate of Utterance hath been unlocked by the Key of My Name, the All-Merciful, and the Ocean of Knowledge hath surged before the faces of all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH03578

Roar with such might that your tumult shall echo through the forests of the Kingdom, and show such prowess that the foxes of violation and the jackals of covenant-breaking shall wander lost and bewildered  AB08507

We must watch our tongues. Let no one raise his tongue in intentional or unintentional malice against his brother or sister. Let every man write this sentence 'Watch thy tongue' on the tablet of his heart.   ABU1005

O Beauty of God, come forth from behind the veil, That the sun may rise from the West! In the depths of despair He causeth the light of hope to appear in such wise as to illumine the realm of heart and soul.  BH06405

By the Most Great Luminary! His utterance transcendeth the utterance of the peoples of the world, His mention surpasseth the mention of all nations, and His movement and stillness are distinct from all else.   BH01428

The Blessed Perfection often remarked that a lecture must be like unto a cool, pure, refreshing stream of water. It is not necessary to use dark, obsolete and difficult words; the simpler the more effective.   ABU2903

Every bird which reaches the rose garden breaks forth into lay and begins singing various harmonies. It is inspired with wonderful melodies and heart-rejoicing songs. It stirs into cheerfulness the listeners.  AB12573

These very conversations of ours today consisted of the spiritual food. God had so destined that you (Mrs Fraser) be here with us in this train so that undisturbed we may talk together on these ideal subjects.  ABU1503

In those dense woods may they raise such a roar that it will cause the hearts of the veiled ones to tremble and leave the jackals of ignorance and unawareness no choice but to flee. That roar is the divine call  AB04910

The reason for this servant's mention of the end is not clear, for the verses have not ended and the evidences have not accepted conclusion. In the nights and days verses are being revealed like the pouring rain.  BH01788

O people of the graves! By God! The trumpet hath been sounded and the mountains have passed away and the heaven hath come with a manifest command. Arise and turn with shining faces toward the Supreme Horizon.   BH00764

A thousand times it was written that the interference of the clergy in political matters would result in calamities... with such clear language were warning and counsel given, but ears were deaf and eyes were blind  AB00734

One pure deed and one goodly attribute hath guided and will continue to guide multitudes. In ancient times, a person known as Hanzala, through one word spoken with sincerity, guided a king and many of his subjects.   BH00364

In truth, the living waters of human utterance have ever been and shall remain the fountain of life, for they revive withered forms and quicken those who lie dead in the wilderness of heedlessness and forgetfulness.  BH00161

Grant me a serene heart, an expanded breast, a joyful spirit, an enlivened mind, a watchful eye, a radiant countenance, an awakened vision, an eloquent tongue, penetrating thought, powerful speech and clear expression.  AB05499

O Lord! Assist them with the army of proofs and evidences, confirm them with wisdom and understanding and inspire their tongues with such eloquence and elucidation as to humble the intelligences and conquer the voices!   AB04214

The water of utterance hath a penetrating power and influence which most of the people of the world are powerless to comprehend. This is that water concerning which He saith: "And from water We made every living thing."   BH00601

Through the movement of the Most Exalted Pen a new spirit of inner meanings was breathed by the command of the True Commander into the bodies of words, and its effects are visible and manifest in all things of the world.   BH01873

Speech is of two kinds: one is comprehensive utterances and decisive speech which is extremely concise yet meaningful; the other is legends and stories which are verbose, lengthy and prolix but with few and rare meanings.   AB01726

A word spoken by the tongue for the Cause of God is like the Most Great Luminary - though clouds and mists may temporarily veil it, ere long it will emerge from behind the clouds and illumine the world with its effulgence.   BH01434

when mention of the divine friends flows from the tongue or the pen inscribes their names, such a state occurs that pen and paper are moved to ecstasy and delight, and the ink cries out "May my soul be sacrificed for them!"   AB05260

By the life of God, the fortresses of hearts - their stones scatter, their rocks disintegrate, their foundations are uprooted by your sharp sword of utterance, and their gates are opened by your maces from which sparks fly.   AB03536

We must sing such a melody, the effect of which is lasting. The songs of the birds are the result of the vibrations which are set in motion in the air. They reach the tympanum of our ears and are forgotten after a few minutes.   ABU1100

The man answered: 'The proof of Muhammad was His eloquent Arabic book. I have heard that this young man has brought through revelation several eloquent Arabic and Persian epistles which have the spirit of the word of Muhammad.'  ABU1734

Be thou occupied with the mention of the Truth through wisdom and utterance, that perchance the dead may attain unto life through the sweet-scented breezes of the garment of the All-Merciful, and the withered may be made fresh.   BH01258

Therefore, open your tongue to these mysteries and proclaim the outpourings of this luminous century. Sometimes string together pearls of poetry, and sometimes make manifest through prose the meanings of this Day of Manifestation  AB06577

How sweet is His Word! How resplendent His Light! How exalted His dominion! The sweetness of the blessed Word bestowed spirit upon all things, conferred light, and granted awareness. There is nothing save it glorifieth His praise.  BH10152

The article that was published in the St. Petersburg newspaper was in the utmost eloquence and excellence, and it was evidence of your outstanding services. Such beneficial articles are the cause of the spread of the divine call.   AB06742

Some breezes refresh the body like the spring breeze and some hurt the body. Some words lighten the heart and others crush it. The breeze of the Disciples quickened the spirit and the words of the Pharisees deadened and killed it.  ABU1236

Although the outpourings of the Supreme Pen and the waves of the Sea of Nun mentioned in the Qur'an have filled the worlds of the seen and unseen, leaving no room for any other pen and no need for the waves of any other sea of ink   AB05771

O Lord! Cause his tongue to speak with utterance, adorn his heart with the verses of exposition, and make his breaths to be confirmed by the breath of the All-Merciful, that he may loose his tongue in the field of divine knowledge   AB01871

This Day is the Day whose mention hath flowed from the Pen and been recorded in the Books of the past and of the future. Blessed is he who hath turned unto it, and drunk, and attained, and woe to the heedless, and woe to the deniers.  BH00630

The voice of the physical clarion may travel the distance of three miles, but the harmony of the spiritual Clarion reacheth to the East and the West. The effect of that is only in the bodies; but the effect of this is in the spirits.  AB06955

words have acquired the power of meanings, and expressions have become the truth of allusions and glad tidings of abstract meanings. A word has taken on the quality of a book, and a letter has found the station of a decisive utterance.  AB06814

Today those souls who are free from every thought save the True One, their hearts are inspired with the divine inspiration. Whenever they begin to speak on any subject they are prompted by the spirit, as though some one speaks to them.  ABU1328

O Exalted Pen! Make mention of those whom We have related to thy exalted Self, and mention them with such remembrances as will cause the fish in the seas to be attracted, the fruits upon the trees and the birds in their nests to speak.   BH04978

I swear by the Most Great Name that the tongue was created for the remembrance of God - if it attaineth not thereunto it is assuredly severed - and the ears were created to hearken unto His words, and likewise all the limbs and members.   BH00420

Utterance is a substance that seeketh penetration and moderation. As for penetration, it dependeth upon pure and unencumbered hearts, and as for moderation, it must be combined with wisdom which We have revealed in the Books and Tablets.  BH00691

The water of life is the divine utterance, and likewise His evidences. Strive that perchance the people of the world may attain eternal life through this everlasting Kawthar and may illumine creation with the light of wisdom and utterance.  BH11041

I beseech Thee by the Name through Whose manifestation both the kingdom of earth and heaven were attracted, livers and hearts were melted, the ocean of utterance surged in the realm of possibility, and the nightingale sang upon the branches  BH11650

O servants! Turn your eyes from these matters and purify your hearts, for today such bounty has appeared that in a single day and night, if a scribe were capable, the equivalent of the Persian Bayan could be revealed from the holy divine heaven.  BH00006

Hassan Khargain. This orator had a son who had studied philosophy and sciences and considered himself secretly greater than his father. He marvelled at the simple words of his father, playing such wonderful effect upon the hearts of his hearers.  ABU0896

Without helper or assistant He summoned the peoples of the world to the horizon of the Most Great Name. That call became a fire of hatred in the hearts of the idolaters, and the choice sealed wine in the hearts of those who are near and sincere.   BH02574


TODAY, if the soul--who is attracted with the Love of God and burning with the flame of enthusiasm--shall unloose his tongue and deliver his speech in the utmost state of attraction, it will undoubtedly produce the most wonderful effect upon the hearts.  AB07135

When thou dost win to My Tablet and find the fragrance of revelation in My utterance, say: My God, my God! Praise be to Thee for showing me Thy signs, causing me to hear the scratching of Thy Pen, and illumining my heart with the light of Thy knowledge.  BH03907

This is the station of man - know this, O ye who are endued with insight. Say: O concourse of divines! Can any one of you race with the Divine Youth in the arena of wisdom and utterance, or soar with Him to the heaven of inner meanings and explanation?   BH00739

The one God adorned man with the ornament of utterance, and this utterance is special to him and through it man is distinguished from animal. In the Furqan, which distinguishes between truth and falsehood, He says: "He created man, taught him utterance."  BH07600

They must be eloquent speakers and heralds, and in the utmost joy and gladness, recite the verses of guidance and interpret the words sent down from the heaven of praise and glorification, sending their exaltation and sanctification to the Supreme Kingdom.   AB00377

By God's life! They know not what issueth from their mouths. These are but worthless followers who pursue their desires on a Day whereon the Herald hath called out from the Most Exalted Horizon: O people of creation! The Throne hath been established in Akka.  BH00019

No sword is sharper than the Word of God. If a few souls arise purely for the sake of God, speak for God and fix their gaze upon God, assuredly its effects will become manifest and evident in the world, as indeed they have become manifest and ye witness them.  BH00536

Be thou vocal with that which will cause the spirit of the world to soar and the hearts of them who are nigh to be attracted. Warble upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree with diverse melodies that the followers of all religions may be set ablaze thereby.   BH01960

Therefore, take up the eloquent pen and inscribe upon the simple tablet the essence of expression and rhetoric, so that you may fulfill the right of fluency, eloquence and sweetness of expression, and demonstrate the miracle of divine rhetoric and expression.   AB06345

At one time I hear thy melodies, and at another thy sighing and weeping. It is as though patience hath been severed from thee at dawn when I hear thy lamentations, at eventide thy crying, and at daybreak that which hath caused the hearts of the mystics to burn.  BH00525

Draw forth the sword of the tongue from the scabbard of utterance through the power of the All-Merciful, and proclaim this Cause in such wise that no created thing shall find means to turn away, for these loved ones are aided by the Holy Spirit when they speak.   BH00885

I beseech Thee, O Lord of existence, by Thy Command whereby the ocean of utterance surged in contingent being and the dove of understanding warbled upon the branches, to enable me to serve Thy Cause in such wise that my remembrance may influence hearts and minds.  BH03227

she will become the possessor of a fluent speech and will find her heart brilliant and full of serenity and faith to such an extent that her pure breath will so take effect even in stone, tree and clay (i.e., in all people), that she, herself, will be astonished.  AB06079

Teaching must be conducted with wisdom and utterance, and triumph achieved through the hosts of goodly character and deeds. The words of holy souls are so effective and penetrating that they can make a withered tree fresh and adorned with delicate, precious fruits.   BH00198

Come forth from behind the veil of silence, then loose thy tongue in praise of thy Lord, that thou mayest be among those who are guided, and remind people through thy remembrance, that perchance through thee may be brought about in them what God hath chosen for them.   BH02033

The tongue is the dawning-place of the lights of truth; make it not the source of false utterances. The tongue is the treasury of My praise and mention; occupy it not with the remembrance of this one and that one, for it shall be a sign unto itself in its own station.  BH00004

He is God, exalted be His glory, the Most Great! Praise be to God Who hath spoken that whereby all things were attracted, and through Whom His path and His balance were made manifest, and whatsoever was recorded in the Books, the Scriptures, the Psalms and the Tablets.   BH01377

thy melody must rise high and thy song and voice bring the Concourse on High to ecstasy and joy. The rest is up to you, for the breath of the spirit was blown into thee and a ray from the Abha Kingdom fell upon thy heart. Given this, silence and quietude are not permitted   AB11668

This is the Day of remembrance and utterance, the Day of assistance and service. All must remain firm and steadfast in the Cause of the Lord of creation in complete unity. The triumph of God's Cause hath been and shall be through goodly deeds and firm, decisive utterances.   BH02110

He was established upon the throne of utterance and with the most exalted call summoned the peoples of earth and heaven to the supreme horizon. By the sword of wisdom and utterance, the hearts and minds of the peoples of the world have been and shall continue to be opened.   BH00256

O servants! The triumph of the Cause hath been and shall be through the manifestations of pure souls, goodly deeds and penetrating words. Strive then that ye may perchance attain to that which hath been mentioned and be adorned with the ornament of wisdom and utterance.  BH09295

But when a man ariseth to expound the arguments of God and invite people to enter in the religion of God, and when he uttereth those arguments and advanceth consummate proofs concerning the appearance of the great Kingdom, then intense love shall become manifest in his heart.  AB01439

Speech is from His special grace and the pen from His infinite bounty. The connection of the world, the fellowship and gathering of nations, and all stations and ranks are made manifest through these two. They are two mighty interpreters that He has bestowed upon His servants.  BH02414

Utterance is a substance that seeketh penetration and moderation. As for penetration, it dependeth on subtlety, and subtlety is conditioned upon pure and unencumbered hearts. As for moderation, it must be combined with wisdom, which We have revealed in the Books and Tablets.   BH00653

"In movements there is life, in immobility there is death. The traveling of the teachers from place to place, from Orient to Occident, and from country to country, is one of the greatest means for spreading the Fragrances, and for sowing spiritual seeds in the souls of the people."  ABU3365

One goodly word uttered with sincerity is more beloved in the sight of God than a hundred thousand swords raised in His Name, for in this Revelation the ocean of mercy is surging, the sun of bounty is shining, and all are forbidden from that which causeth injury, fear, and distress.  BH01740

Therefore, a letter in fine handwriting by a skilled calligrapher bears no fruit unless it contains pleasing meanings and sweet contents. The sweetness of expression lies in the delicacy of meanings and indication of spiritual love, conscientious attractions, and merciful sentiments  AB03289

I cannot describe the eloquent contents and fluent expressions of your noble letter, and I cannot express the sweetness, fluidity, excellence and delicacy of the mysteries and meanings of your poetry. How excellent is the one who said "And when you speak, you are indeed the Gemini."  AB01092

Nevertheless, the Most Exalted Pen hath not been prevented from mention and praise, and night and day summoneth the peoples of the earth to the Most Exalted Horizon. No authority hath restrained Him and no fear hath seized Him. He hath spoken and continueth to speak before all faces   BH06831

O friends! Know ye your worth and withhold not yourselves from that which is with God. Each one of you must be even as the morning star, radiant, that souls who have strayed in the darkness of idle fancies and selfish desires may thereby be guided and find the path of deliverance.  BH06491

O servant in attendance! A single word can, like the spring breezes, make the world fresh and verdant, adorning it with the ornament of life, while another word can, like autumn winds, cause leaves to fall and strip every created thing of its freshness, as hath been and is now witnessed.  BH01779

The Word of God is like the promise-laden winds of spring and when this word can pass through spiritual lips it grants the breath of life indeed and imparts spiritual salvation. It transforms the pure earth into a rose garden and fills the horizon of existence with the fragrance of musk.  AB04089

It is very good that thy breath is very effective. No matter with whomsoever thou speakest about the cause he will be impressed and accept the revelation. This is because thou art seeking the good-pleasure of the Lord. Thou art not serving the Cause for fame but to be drawn near unto God.  ABU0979

O people! The breathings of the words of the Lord of Names and Attributes have so seized me that the veils have been rent asunder by the fingers of the power of Him Who is the Fashioner of the heavens and earth, and I have turned toward the countenance whereby the worlds have been illumined.  BH11802

If a lover holds the hand of a beloved, it is obvious what feelings ensue. They communicate face to face and speak heart to heart, as this light is communicating now with human eyes, the sun with the earth, the cloud with the land and the breeze with the tree. This process is found in all things.   ABU0799

Utterance is a substance that seeketh penetration and moderation. As to penetration, it is conditional upon refinement, which in turn is dependent upon hearts that are detached and pure. As for moderation, it is to be combined with wisdom, which We have revealed in the Scriptures and Tablets.   BH00382

All these have in themselves an organization, and are constructed on natural law. Therefore, they correspond to the order of existence like something which would fit into a mold. A true voice fits into the mold of nature. When it is so, this affects the nerves, and they affect the heart and spirit.  ABU0474

If in certain instances heedlessness hath occurred, verily He hath forgiven what is past. God willing, arise henceforth to make good what hath escaped you. The world is not worthy of mention, and its evanescence is witnessed at every moment. Arise to serve the Cause of God with wisdom and utterance.   BH00202

We thank Him for having caused you to speak His praise and enabled you to set forth His proof and establish His arguments and evidences and manifest His Cause throughout His creation. Were people to possess attentive ears, pure minds, assured souls and clear hearts, this treatise would suffice them.   AB00179

Through them, all created things shall arise to glorify the Lord of names and to bear witness that there is none other God save Me, the All-Powerful, the Most Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Nor shall those who make mention of Me speak aught unless they be inspired by this Tongue from its heavenly garden.  BH00007

The letter from that handmaiden of God arrived at a time when, due to the sorrows that have befallen [Us], the divine fragrances were cut off and the pen was prevented from movement. Nevertheless, out of love for God, a reply is being written to that handmaiden of God according to what my Lord desires.  BH11844

No mention shall profit you this day [...] Say: No mention among all mentions, nor any name among all names, nor any book among all books shall benefit you this day except through this Book which speaketh with truth and before which the Mother Book hath bowed down, would ye but know with certainty.  BH00023

The charm and beauty of the voice of Truth attract the hearts and spiritualize the thoughts. Today whosoever takes the lessons of voice culture in the Celestial Conservatory of Baha'u'llah, he will be endowed with a soul-captivating voice which would move and thrill the hearts of numberless music lovers.   ABU2280

I have taken up the pen and engaged in mentioning that yearner for the Beauty of the All-Merciful, that perhaps from the effect of this pen and ink a sweet fragrance may reach the nostrils of the hearts of the people of love, and hearts and breasts may become expanded and gladdened through divine remembrance.  AB03775

By God! There hath appeared what hath never appeared in the world, and the Speaker of Sinai hath spoken that which, were it to be cast upon the mountains, they would take flight, and were it cast upon the earth, its treasures would be revealed, and were it cast upon the heaven, it would be cleft asunder instantly.  BH11823

We counsel all to assist the Cause of God through the hosts of deeds and character. Any deed performed by any soul for the sake of God that becomes the cause of guiding others is worthy to be recorded and, by the testimony of this Wronged One, neither obliteration shall overtake it nor change find its way unto it.   BH00265

What was manifested on the Day of Judgment from their thousand and two hundred years of deeds? Reflect, and with the power of justice and fairness, break the back of tyranny and oppression. By God! We desire naught for thee but good, and We desire only to guide thee to the straight path of God and His mighty Message.  BH00131

I swear by the Most Great Name that if a deaf and mute person rises to praise the Truth, he will speak with an eloquent and articulate tongue and, like the nightingale of the garden of divine knowledge, will warble melodies in diverse modes upon the branches and twigs of the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing.  AB04703

When thou hast comprehended what We have mentioned and understood what We have explained, thou wilt recognize the dawning of the Divine Word upon the receptive vessels of creation in the world of the atoms, and thou wilt realize the first blast in the forms of power and the second blast in the realm of simplicity and mercy.  BH00380

The sword is My remembrance and the spearpoint is the tongue. Draw them forth by My leave, then help the All-Merciful through them amidst all worlds. Thus have ye been commanded by the Revealer of verses. By My life! The sword of utterance is sharper than the sword of steel - know this, O ye who are endued with insight!  BH04732

Praise be to God Who hath manifested through wisdom, revealed His Cause through wisdom, commanded all through wisdom, and made victory to reside in utterance and wisdom. Exalted is the Lord of wisdom and the Manifestor of wisdom, Who hath made it sharper than swords, more penetrating than spears, and more piercing than arrows.  BH00128

A word that proceeds from the mine of righteousness and sincerity for God's sake is indeed all-powerful and all-encompassing. When such a word is cast upon a people or an army, they become so enthralled that neither worldly conditions nor all that the nations possess can deter them from the Straight Path and the Momentous News.  BH01751

It is the cup-bearer of the wine of love and the manifestation of affection and fellowship. The divine Books have appeared through it and their mysteries are inscribed by it. Exalted is He Who hath favored it with that which the writer and His creation are powerless to describe, and taught it and made known to it what He desired.  BH01748

Aid thy Lord with the sword of utterance - thus hath the matter been decreed from the Pen of the All-Merciful in these days wherein sorrows have encompassed Me from all directions, and God is witness unto this. Know thou that in those days God hath ordained the victory of His Cause through exposition rather than through the tongue   BH02511

From his words you can understand in what world he is traveling, whether he is looking upwards to the nether world, whether he is mindful or unaware, whether he is awake or asleep, whether he is alive or dead. For this reason his holiness Ali says: "Man is hidden behind his tongue. Out of the abundance of his heart does man speak."  ABU1295

O Muhammad-Rahim! The Wronged One remembereth thee and commandeth thee to observe that which thou wast commanded in His presence and that which We have commanded all in the Book. Say: O loved ones of God! Be not grieved by what hath befallen [My Name] and My friends through that which the hands of every heedless doubter have wrought.  BH06365

those letters are as gifts of God to thee...verily, those letters are as the fragrant breezes of the garden of the knowledge of God, which can be smelled by every one whose sense of smelling is clean and purified from any rheum, because they are glad-tidings proceeding from pure lips which are fluent in explaining the mysteries of God  AB03879

When we speak let our speech be an outward evidence of the inner light, for we must speak the truth, otherwise we shall not act wisely. I hope that you will all become eloquent. The greatest gifts of man are reason and eloquence of expression. The perfect man is both intelligent and eloquent. He has knowledge and knows how to express it.  ABU2106

That very mention which flowed from the tongue of that Beloved concerning its dispatch cannot be equaled by anything hidden and treasured in the earth in the estimation of the friends and chosen ones. In truth, love is a sovereign that is mighty and a ruler that prevails. The world of motion and stillness is within the grasp of its power.   BH00535

O Most Exalted Pen! We have sent down for thee in every condition that which sufficeth the worlds... Through thee was raised the scratching of every pen and every wise decree was expounded. Through thee were hearts drawn to the Beloved, and the hearts of lovers were set ablaze with the fire of separation, and the Face illumined the horizons.   BH02267

Every power and capacity that is expended in the Cause of God - its effects remain and it yields lasting results. Otherwise it becomes as if it had never existed and was not worth mentioning. Those souls who possess the power of utterance, if this power is combined in them with sanctification and attraction, mighty effects will appear from them  ABU3021

Whoso opens his lips today in remembrance of his Lord will be reinforced by the hosts of God's revelation through wondrous inspiration, and God will cause the Kawthar of divine knowledge to flow from his mouth and will make him speak with wisdom and utterance in such wise that none among all created things shall be able to speak in his presence.   BH01548

Thou too must show forth such courage and valor--yet not through the sharp blade and perilous arrow, but rather through a honeyed tongue and sweet utterance and conduct like pure honey and nectar. This sword taketh not life but bestoweth it; it destroyeth not but buildeth up; it casteth not down hearth and home but raiseth up heavenly foundations.  AB08384

The spiritual susceptibilities in the hearts are understood by them as 'communication', because between the souls of disincarnated spirits and the embodied, incarnated spirits there exists strong connection and definite and well-established relationship. Those ideal connections are, therefore, the means of receiving and bestowing Divine Favours.   AB04601

Then remind the people of that which God hath cast into thy heart, and be not of the silent ones. And though silence be beloved before God, yet remembrance before thy Lord is better than it, if thou be of them that know. For silence is beloved except concerning the remembrance of God and the promotion of His Cause, if ye be of them that are assured.  BH02557

Most would say this kind of speech and utterance and the influence and penetration of His blessed word was extraordinary - that in one gathering the manner of speech and impact of His blessed utterance could satisfy opposing souls and fulfill the ultimate desires of people of different dispositions and aims while also explaining and expressing truth.   ABU0795

In truth, the pen is a great sign from the Ancient Lord, and ink is the supreme gate of love and unity. These two have ever been and shall continue to be the movers of the cord of love. Were the favors of God, exalted be His glory, and likewise the effects and fruits ordained for these two to become manifest, the world would be struck with wonderment.   BH00673

"True listening consisteth in man's first perceiving with the ear of his spirit the call of the All-Merciful, and then remaining so steadfast in observing the divine precept and command that were he to witness from the peoples of the world naught save denial, enmity, and rejection, he would in no wise be deflected from walking in the Straight Path of God."   BH07481

This is the day of mention and praise, the day of enthusiasm and fervor, but this evanescent one's tongue is tired and body weak, and moreover commanded to wisdom. He beseecheth God, exalted be His might and glory, to raise up servants who may guide the people to the ocean of knowledge through wisdom and utterance, and speak that which is meet to be spoken.   BH01582

Through thy scratching every soul that turned to God, the Lord of all worlds, was drawn nigh, and through thy movement were all created things stirred to motion in the days of thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-Praised. Through thee were made manifest the hidden mysteries in the Books of God, and that which was treasured in His all-encompassing knowledge was unveiled.   BH00684

Glory be to God! How resonant is this soundless pen! It is the source of all the world's sounds. Its scratching gives life to souls. The world of command and creation appears through it and returns to it, for in one station it is the first interpreter and in another the second. How many treasuries of arts and knowledge has this hollow shaft gathered within itself!   BH01029

Praise be to God! How great is this bounty, and how evident this generosity, that the trace of a pen and the contents of a letter can have such influence in the spiritual realms - meanings that give life, and concepts that nourish the spirit; a word that causes the bird of the spirit to soar, and a thought that brings the nightingale of the heart into song and melody.  AB07116

What a bounty this is, that the effect of ink seeks the rose of the garden of the heart and perfumes minds - and this is nothing but the bounty of the Ancient Beauty and the Greatest Name, Who has bestowed such grace and granted such power to the musk-scented pen that it gives souls the intoxication of spiritual wine and freely grants eternal joy and expansion to hearts.  AB01114

Fear God and be of the God-fearing. Ask ye that which shall profit you in the Cause of God and His dominion, for the door of grace hath been opened unto all who dwell in heaven and on earth. Be thou in no wise saddened about this matter, for He hath repeatedly stated that there are certain questions which people need to ask, therefore there is no blame upon the questioners.  BH03116

Therefore, O thou who art intoxicated with the wine of the eternal covenant, be assisted to speak and utter in such wise that, like penetrating rays dispersing the clouds of doubt of every wavering soul, thou mayest be as a flash of lightning, becoming a manifestation of divine confirmations, a dawning-place of heavenly assistance, and a rising-point of the lights of unity.  AB08101


The words of many speakers are mixed with the lusts of their souls and their worldly appetites; therefore they will have neither authority nor success. Jesus said: "Arise, take up thy bed and walk." He did not use prayers or mental suggestion. He used spiritual authority in the command which was the power of the Holy Spirit manifest in him. Therefore his word was obeyed because it was creative.  ABU2579

"If people ask you about your conduct (as a Baha'i teacher), say: 'We do not oppose the religion of any one and we act in accordance with the Gospel. But we must also act in accordance with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah. They are–the Oneness of the World of Humanity, Independent Investigation of Truth, Abandonment of Prejudice, Universal Peace, etc. You must act in accordance with these Teachings.'"  ABU2255

Beyond these, We have manifested this Name unto all who are in the heavens and on earth, and We have made this Name a sun that all existence, both seen and unseen, might be illumined by its rays. None knoweth this save those who have been given spiritual vision by One All-Knowing, All-Wise. None shall be barred from the radiance of this Sun save those who place a veil between themselves and its light.   BH00532

The education of souls dependeth upon reward and punishment. But now, as the Cause is veiled and the appointed One is not manifest, and likewise due to God's all-embracing mercy in these days becoming a cause of heedlessness and loss, blessed is he who casteth away desire and layeth hold of guidance. Today, humility, submissiveness, love, affection, unity and harmony are beloved and acceptable unto God.  BH00045

Man's speech is a mirror of his heart. He speaks from whatever plane his heart is at. Therefore, from one's conversation it can be discerned in what plane he dwells, whether his concern is with the world below or the realm above, and whether he is heedless or aware, awakened or in slumber. The Imam 'Ali stated, "Man is hidden, but his tongue reveals him." That is, one speaks of whatever he finds important.   ABU0879

If the nightingale of a thousand melodies fails to sing a tune, it is as a mute sparrow, and if the nightingale of the rose garden of meanings composes no melody, it is as a wingless, speechless bird. If the dove of the garden of mysteries warbles not, it appears as the raven of the refuse heap, and if the peacock of the eternal paradise displays not its glory, it is as the crow of the ruins of extinction.   AB00219

In truth, each of its words was a messenger from the right hand of love and affection, and a fragrance from the rose-garden of longing and desire. It gave the power of smell to the nostrils and taste to the palate. Allah-u-Akbar! Such is the influence of the messengers and the penetrating power of the words of the sincere ones that a single word can transform hell into paradise and retribution into blessing.   BH00659

O people! By God, the Hand of God hath appeared, and it is sovereign over all who are in earth and heaven. Were anyone to find the sweetness of that which We have sent down unto thee, the attraction of the verses would so seize him that he would cry out with a cry surpassing the crashing of thunderbolts in the mountains, and would be set ablaze with the fire of the Word in such wise as to set the horizons aflame.  BH01230

Through Thy name the Most Great Ocean was stirred, and through Thy remembrance the mouth of them that are nigh unto God was perfumed. Time hath brought Me low, to such extent that the dumb now speaketh, since the gates of utterance have been opened through this human being who proclaimeth at the midmost heart of creation: "Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Speaking One, the True, the Articulate, the Trustworthy."  BH01590

The time of silence hath passed. The day when the Sovereign of Eternity emerged from behind the veils of names and attributes, rent asunder the clouds of knowledge and tore apart the mists of wisdom, and without concealment or veil the Tongue of the Lord of Lords began to speak - in such wise that the oceans of meanings flowed from His blessed lips and the surging waves of utterance streamed forth from His life-giving words.  BH02384

Thus hath the Pen of God moved to make mention of thee, that thou mayest remind the people through this utterance which God hath made the Dayspring of His signs. Were We to will it, We would assuredly give victory to the Cause through but one word from Us. But since Our mercy hath preceded all things, We have ordained complete victory to consist in mention and utterance, that Our servants throughout the earth might thereby attain.   BH00587

Verily God will surely strengthen thee by the lights shining upon all sides and will make thee of the vibrations of the hidden, kindled and Invisible Fire which penetrates every wall, bar and mountain, casting lights upon the hearts of the pious. And He will suffer thee to be established in the center of the City which has no walls so that thou mayest become a sign of Guidance in the extreme Occident, borrowing light from the Supreme Orient.  AB12784

From the most eloquent tongue We have turned to the luminous tongue. The friends of God must cleave unto wisdom and forbearance, and associate with all the peoples of the world in a spirit of joy and fragrance. In one utterance may be concealed the Water of Life that bestoweth eternal existence, and in another utterance may lie deadly poison. The people of unity must speak with words sweeter than honey and more delicate than the morning dew.   BH00381

Then remind the people of this hidden News, and drink at every moment from the cup of life, though thou didst drink therefrom in the days of thy Lord, to which all things bear witness, yet people hear not. O My Name! Deliver the messages of thy Lord unto those who have been mentioned in this Tablet and unto those who have believed in God, the Most High, the Most Great. Beware lest thou be silent in mentioning thy Lord or grow cold in the warmth of thy love.   BH01207

Wherefore, O ye beloved of God, offer up thanks that ye have, in the day of the dawning, turned your faces unto the Light of the World and beheld its splendours. Ye have received a share of the light of truth, ye have enjoyed a portion of those blessings that endure forever; and therefore, as a returning of thanks for this bounty, rest ye not for a moment, sit ye not silent, carry to men's ears the glad tidings of the Kingdom, spread far and wide the Word of God.  AB00915

Among the helpers of God is utterance, both in this Most Great Revelation and formerly. Deeds and goodly character are the hosts of God and are engaged in rendering assistance. If utterance is made with due measure it is God's mercy, but if it exceeds bounds it becomes the cause of destruction. In the Tablets We have counseled all to utter such words as possess the potency and effect of milk, that the children of the world may be nurtured thereby and attain maturity.   BH00472

It is said that man is a rational being endowed with the faculty of speech and utterance, that he is aware of universal truths and can perceive mystical and secret meanings. But within the precincts of the Unconstrained, the real purpose of speech among the truly wise is to give praise to the Ancient Beauty and the essence of meaningful utterance is to describe the attributes of the Most Great Name. Otherwise a dumb animal is better than a human being endowed with speech.  AB08914

Today is a different day and a different heaven is upraised and a different sea is surging. It cannot and will not be compared with before and after. Say: Today the sun of bounty is manifest and the ocean of grace is before all faces. Move in this spiritual atmosphere with the wings of spirit, and keep yourselves detached, free and sanctified from the impurities, allusions and dust of the vicissitudes of time. Wings soiled with mud are not worthy of flight nor capable of ascension.   BH00867

The faculty of hearing is more important than the faculty of seeing. Firstly because it is revealed in the Khoran: 'He (God) is the Hearer and the Seer!' We observe that in this verse the word 'Hearer' precedes the word 'Seer'. Secondly 'sight' is a faculty possessed by animals as well as by men, of perceiving only external objects in a direct line, the impressions of which are imprinted on the retina of the eyes while 'hearing' is the faculty or the sense by which sound is perceived from every direction.  ABU1093

A word that is spoken for God's sake contains within it the nature and effect of milk whose taste has not changed, and it will raise the children of the age to the lofty station of maturity and give them to drink from the ocean of knowledge.   BH00960

A myriad names and attributes have been ascribed to these degrees and stations, which I am disinclined to mention here. It is, indeed, solely because of thy longing and devotion that I have engaged in such ephemeral and limited topics. And this, notwithstanding that speech is the greatest evidence of the worth of the speaker and guideth unto the recognition of the source of guidance, for no more complete and enduring proof hath been or will be vouchsafed unto man from the empyrean of everlasting glory than words and utterance.   BH00693

Speak not that which would startle souls, cause flesh to creep, make limbs to tremble, and make the hearts of obstinate people recoil. Rather, speak to them with gentle words that they might remember or fear God. Follow thou the way of thy Lord, and say not that which the ears cannot bear to hear, for such speech is like luscious food given to small children. However palatable, rare and rich the food may be, it cannot be assimilated by the digestive organs of a suckling child. Therefore unto every one who hath a right, let his settled measure be given.  AB00192

Every word is endowed with a spirit, therefore the speaker or expounder should carefully deliver his words at the appropriate time and place, for the impression which each word maketh is clearly evident and perceptible. The Great Being saith: One word may be likened unto fire, another unto light, and the influence which both exert is manifest in the world. Therefore an enlightened man of wisdom should primarily speak with words as mild as milk, that the children of men may be nurtured and edified thereby and may attain the ultimate goal of human existence which is the station of true understanding and nobility.  BH00140

We beseech God, blessed and exalted be He, to aid thee to return unto His traces and whatsoever hath appeared from Him. Verily He guideth thee and all upon earth to His straight path. Blessed is the strong one who hath purified his heart with the Kawthar flowing from the spring of My Pen and hath taken the chalice of immortality from the hand of the bounty of his Lord, the Most High, the Most Exalted, and hath drunk before all faces in spite of those who have denied God's proof and His evidence, who have disputed His signs and disbelieved in the blessing of His knowledge which was sent down from the heaven of His mercy that hath encompassed all who are in the heavens and on earth.   BH00957

Thy Name, the Swift, hath made me swifter than lightning; Thy Name, the All-Seeing, hath made me more perceiving than all the worlds; Thy Name, the All-Knowing, hath taught me the knowledge of what was and what shall be; and Thy Name, the All-Informed, hath acquainted me with that which none knoweth save whom Thy knowledge willeth, the knowledge that dominateth all who are in the heavens and on earth. Despite my inherent baseness, Thou hast made me to excel all standards, and notwithstanding my manifest weakness, Thou hast made me powerful through Thy Name, the Almighty, the Powerful. Through me is broken the back of every mighty one, and through me is exalted both the lowly and the high. Were Thou to loose my reins, I would brandish the spears of utterance, subdue the cities of the earth, and take possession of the hearts of those who wander in the wilderness of heedlessness  BH01801

Turn thy face to the Kingdom of holiness, ascend to the summit of divine address, and open thy tongue. Scatter pearls and gems, bestow musk and ambergris, unlock the fragrant casket of mysteries and expand the breasts of those endowed with understanding. Perfume the horizons, illumine all regions.  AB07610
