This development, in its primary degree, pertaineth to the human person - that is to say, they must first establish the edifice of the heart upon His Name's firm and mighty foundation, and thereafter occupy themselves with inner and outer edifices.  BH04352

The soul is a sign that is sanctified from entry and exit; it is both still and in motion, seated yet soaring. It beareth witness to a world that hath beginning and end, and likewise to a world that is sanctified from beginning and end.  BH00328


"Thou seest the drop seeking the ocean of Thy grace and the sea of Thy bounty, and the atom seeking the effulgences of the sun of Thy generosity and munificence"   BH06720
 
The human spirit, in other words the rational soul, in the world of existence is the intermediary between things corporeal and delimited worldly things; that is to say, between realities spiritual and things corporeal.  AB02513

Man has a spirit which is above other beings. That power can discover the mysteries of nature, the earth and the heavens. It can be in the East and organize vast enterprises in the West. These prove that in man there is a power greater than nature.  ABU0622

Man has a power which encompasses and perceives things both seen and unseen, by which he is distinguished from the animals; which enables him to perceive things which are purely intellectual realities.  ABU0780

We beseech of Thee that which leadeth to eternal life and everlasting existence  BH10248
 
after bringing into being and manifesting all contingent things and created beings, set apart man for Himself, breathed His spirit into him, and deposited within him the gems of His mysteries and the wonders of His lights   BH02601
 
Know that the soul which is common to all men cometh forth following the commingling of things and after their maturation, as thou dost observe in the germ: once it hath developed to its predestined stage, God manifesteth the soul that was latent within it. Thy Lord, verily, doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth.   BH00260
 
The human spirit, which is the rational soul that distinguishes man from animal, is not of the physical elements but rather of spiritual substance that is not subject to corruption. It is tormented when veiled from God, its Lord, and prevented from beholding its Creator and perceiving His signs in the worlds of souls and horizons. It has the power to comprehend all things and encompasses the realities of all contingent beings as they are, should it turn to the center of guidance among the concourse of creation; otherwise it descends into the depths of ignorance and blindness and falls to the lowest levels of error and misguidance.   BH01497
 
Such a soul is the leaven that giveth rise to the world and the crafts and visible things therein, through the command of the True Sovereign and the True Educator. Observe ye the leaven, how it requireth a leavening agent - and pure souls are the leaven of the world.  BH00328
 
But the prison which in divine terminology truly merits this name is the prison of self and passion. We beseech God for power and strength that through His assistance we may emerge from this dark, crushing prison and enter the boundless expanse of justice and righteousness   BH03106
 
Verily, We say: The soul is gladdened by goodly deeds and profiteth from the contributions made in the path of God.   BH00827
 
As to your question concerning the reality of the soul, it is a divine sign and a heavenly essence which all the learned have failed to comprehend and all the wise have been powerless to understand. It is the first entity to speak of God, its Creator, to turn towards Him, to hold fast unto Him, and to bow down before Him. In this state it is ascribed unto truth and returneth unto Him; otherwise it is reckoned among the followers of self and passion and returneth unto them.  BH00328
 
The human spirit, which is the rational soul that distinguishes man from animal, is not of the physical elements but rather of spiritual substance that is not subject to corruption. It is tormented when veiled from God, its Lord, and prevented from beholding its Creator and perceiving His signs in the worlds of souls and horizons. It has the power to comprehend all things and encompasses the realities of all contingent beings as they are, should it turn to the center of guidance among the concourse of creation; otherwise it descends into the depths of ignorance and blindness and falls to the lowest levels of error and misguidance.  BH01497
 
Hearts should be like fountains. The scholars and philosophers of the age are like pools, gathering a cup from here and a cup from there to fill their reservoirs, but some hearts are like springs that become purer and more abundant the more they flow.   ABU0860
 
And when they concealed their faces from this lower horizon, they shone forth like brilliant stars from the horizons of the Abha Kingdom, and ran to the private chamber of the Truth, attaining the joy of meeting   AB01584
 
The human spirit is a divine trust which must traverse every degree, for traversing and passing through the degrees of existence is the means of its acquiring perfections. Moreover, it is necessary that the signs of the perfections of the spirit appear in this world, that the realm of creation may bring forth endless fruits and that this body of the contingent world may receive life and manifest the divine bounties.   AB00919
 
The soul is the Sanctuary of God  ABU3609
 
 
Spirituality is the possession of a good, pure heart. When the heart is pure, the Spirit enters, and our growth is natural and assured.   ABU3334
 
Man is created in a potential degree of Spirit. Growth is from the mental station into the Spiritual.  ABU3262
 
The soul is a link between the body and the spirit  ABU3157
 
While the man is alive he is able to strike, to beat, to kill but you sleep with him in the same room. But when he is dead, [science] teaches us that he belongs to the mineral kingdom.  ABU2533
 
In the human being there is conceived a perfect reality which according to various terminologies has received different names.  ABU2422
 
The soul is always active--it travels even where man is asleep.  ABU2279
 
To the animals other than man, the attainments of man are inconceivable, just as inconceivable as the next plane above and beyond this is now inconceivable to us. For there we shall find new powers, new senses, as far transcending those we now have as these transcend the powers of those on the planes below us.   ABU1355
 
The spiritual senses are numberless. They are Perfections and Favors of GOD. The Spiritual Powers are the means of conveying to all the Spiritual Bounties vouchsafed to man.  ABU1316
 
The spirit of man has two means of action. Sometimes it acts through an intermediary. For instance, the spirit of man sees through the intermediary of the eye, hears through the ear, walks with the help of the legs and smells with the nose.  ABU1201
 
The intellectual power, the perceiving soul... All the arts, sciences, industries, and inventions were once in the invisible world- were hidden mysteries; but the intellectual power of man has revealed them -has brought them forth from the invisible to the visible world.  ABU0780
 
But the Spirit of God, the heavenly bestowal, is one reality, and in all ages - the prophetic ages - that reality has been, and that reality is, changeless; is not to be decomposed, for it is not composed.  ABU0757
 
Soul is the human will to live temporally. Spirit is the Divine Will to live forever. Salvation is the quickening of soul into Spirit. All souls are alike in essence or quality as created.  ABU0744
 
Through this power it becomes the discoverer of the realities of things and attains the progress of the human world   ABU0690
 
The soul that lives in the material world is dark for in the material world there is aggression, struggle, greed, vice and transgression. If the soul remains in this station, and moves along these paths it will receive no uplift, but if it becomes the recipient of the world of mind, its darkness will be transformed into light; its tyranny into justice, its ignorance into wisdom and its aggression into loving kindness. There will be no more struggle for existence and man will become free from egotism. He will be released from the material world and become the embodiment of justice, the personification of the virtues.   ABU0655
 
This great power must evidently be differentiated from the physical body or temple in which it is manifested. Observe and understand how this human body changes; nevertheless, the spirit of man remains ever in the same condition. For instance, the body sometimes grows weak, it becomes strong or stout, sometimes it grows smaller or may be dismembered, but there is no effect upon the spirit.   ABU0004
 
Man is the only creature who can receive reward, because he has the power of choice--whether he will show forth love or withhold it. He has the power to choose immortal life or to reject it, while the animals have no qualities that are immortal.  ABU1895
 
 
Moreover, the animal perceives sensible things but cannot perceive conceptual realities. For example, the animal sees that which is within the range of its vision, but cannot comprehend or conceive that which lies beyond it. Thus it is not possible for the animal to comprehend that the earth has a spherical shape. But man can deduce the unknown from the known and discover hidden realities.  AB00057
 
Know thou that the purpose of this tradition is to demonstrate the distinction and difference between the human spirit and the earthly body. When he says I saw a man, he refers to the body, and the answerer wished to make known to the questioner the perishing of the lower body and the endurance of the higher spirit.  AB00018
 
Nevertheless the spirit of man is powerful; for the spirit of man can soar in the firmament of knowledge, can discover realities, can confer life, can receive the divine Glad-Tidings. Is not this greater than making a salad?   ABU3259
 
The light of the spirit illumines the world of existence and release it from the clutches of materialism. The ears can hear the voice in a limited distance, the vision of the eyes similarly is circumscribed but the spirit sees the East and the West; while in the West it organizes important affairs in the East; while on earth it discovers heavenly satellites; it unfolds the mysteries of phenomena; it goes under the earth and brings into the light of day the geologic secrets.   ABU1447
 
Humans comprehend the realities of things while animals are ignorant. Through the power of will, humans uncover the hidden realities of beings   ABU0690
 
God has created all earthly things under a law of progression in material degrees, but He has created man and endowed him with powers of advancement toward spiritual and transcendental kingdoms. He has brought forth everything necessary for the life of this world, but man is a creation intended for the reflection of divine virtues.   ABU0100
 
The strength of body and physical might can at most overcome a hundred men, but the power of spirit and vigor of soul can capture and possess whole worlds.  AB09379
 
And know thou that, verily, the Lord who "doeth whatsoever He willeth" will assist thee in proof and argument and will enable thee to speak the praise of the Merciful One and will make thee a sign of knowledge.  AB02844
 
When these perfections shine forth like brilliant lights from the horizon of the soul and such joy and spirituality are attained, every joy and perfection is in the shadow of compulsion.  ABU2824
 
Consider, just as the rays of the sun illumine the earth, in the same way, the soul illumines bodies. It is the soul which makes man heavenly; it is the soul which enables man to benefit from the outpourings of the Holy Spirit; it is his soul which discovers the realities of things; it is his soul which has manifested all these signs; it is his soul which has established these sciences; it is the soul which bestows eternal life; it is the soul which unifies opposing nations; it is the soul which brings East and West together, and turns the human world into a heavenly world.  ABU0114
 
The human spirit is a power which comprehends the realities of things...the human spirit is a comprehensive energy and controls the realities of things and discovers the hidden secrets in the domain of the physical world  AB09754

the evolution of spirit continues until reason, the mental powers, and the emotional capacities are evolved in it. These are not produced by entities which pass from body to body, but by the universal or World Spirit of man. The results of each individual life-experience go to the general enrichment of humanity. As a hundred lamps may be lit from a single flame, so the one World Spirit illumines the minds of countless men. Without this spirit, man's body, like the lamp, is lifeless matter.  AB10286
 
The pure in spirit have, through this bounty from the All-Merciful, ascended from the depths of nothingness to the highest heights of being, while those defiled with the dust and limitations of the contingent world have withered and languished in the lowest of the low   AB06948
 
It cannot be said that the ethereal soul hath entered and penetrated this body, for the former is immaterial while the latter is bound by the restraints of time and space. Egress and regress, ascent and descent, setting and rising, dissolution and composition are properties of the body, not the soul. Despite its visible traces, evident signs, manifest attributes, and clear effects, the soul as it is in itself remaineth invisible and concealed. Its center is hidden and its origin is beyond any indication.  AB03491
 
The rational soul is endowed from the beginning with individuality; it does not acquire it through the intermediary of the body. At most, what can be said is that the individuality and identity of the rational soul may be strengthened in this world, and that it may either progress and attain to the degrees of perfection or remain in the lowest abyss of ignorance and be veiled from and deprived of beholding the signs of God.  AB01631
 

The human spirit refers to the rational soul by which humans are distinguished from animals. It is not from the realm of physical elements but rather from spiritual substances that are not subject to corruption  AB00479
 
In regard to the phenomenon of death, know that the soul of man is sanctified and independent from material existence. It hath no need to enter or exit, ascend or descend, penetrate or commingle, for these are the properties of bodies, not of souls. Therefore, the soul of man does not enter into this corporeal frame, but rather hath a connection to it.  AB00457
 
Know thou that every soul is fashioned after the nature of God, each being pure and holy at his birth. Afterwards, however, the individuals will vary according to what they acquire of virtues or vices in this world.  AB00398
 

Individual consciousness is realized after birth here. This is the matrix world for the soul, even as the womb was the matrix world for the body or vehicle. - Birth into consciousness of another world begins here, a world for which this physical and material one is but the preparation and foundation.  ABU3236

Individual consciousness is realized after birth.   ABU1477
 
You will retain your individuality and will not be swallowed up in one vast spirit. The essence of the human soul is clarified from material substances and purified from the embodiment of physical things.   ABU3067
 
Mutilation of the body brings no harm to the soul. This is one of the proofs of the immortality of the soul, for death consists of the change and dispersion of the members and elements of the body. As a bodily change does not bring about change in the soul, it is evident that the soul is unchanging and imperishable.   ABU2979
 
Miss B.: What is the difference between soul and spirit? Abdul Baha: They mean the same. It is one reality. The names are different.  ABU2940
 
This seed may be likened to the perfect soul; the souls of men in general are as the leaves and the flowers.  ABU2645
 
When one leaves this sphere, will he ever return? No: No one ever returns here, for this world is a school were the soul of man learns its first lessons in spirituality, and if he leaves this place without having learned his lessons sufficiently, the time is past and the opportunity lost   ABU2606
 
The power of consciousness is also thus recognized. After death the condition is one which cannot be clearly explained in words. It is one of comprehension, understanding which involves all other things - feeling, etc.  ABU2186
 
By the same measure is the human spirit, which is the greatest divine gift. If illnesses afflict the spirit then it is obvious how difficult its treatment is.   ABU2162
 
Human spirits are manifested in physical molds or bodies. One spirit may be imperfect; that is to say, it may be imbued with qualities and characteristics of a baser nature; it may be ignorant, inadvertent, immoral, evil, contaminating, tyrannical. These vices are the retribution of this spirit.   ABU2120
 
 
"And as the whole universe is reflected in our spirit, we perceive from this that our spirit (Ruh) is a reflection of the Creative Spirit and thus partakes of the infinity of space and the endlessness of eternity. O my sons and daughters: Our spirit, which neither is conceivable nor can be explained, shares the infinity of space and boundless eternity with its Creator, that means: the human spirit, the weak reflection of the Divine Spirit, the Creative Spirit, has part in the immortality of the Creator: our spirit is immortal."  ABU1069
 
Life is eternal, but the individual human consciousness is not inherently so. It can only gain immortality by uniting with the pure Divine Essence. This union man may reach by a pure life and love for God and his fellows.   ABU0343
 
This power of accomplishment is beyond the range of animal intelligence. Therefore, this power is a distinctive attribute of the human spirit and kingdom. The animal spirit cannot penetrate and discover the mysteries of things. It is a captive of the senses.  ABU0262
 
The soul is in an abstract power and its manifestation depends upon the development and preparation of that body. A poor mirror reflects poorly. The more the body is prepared the more the soul can manifest. The more the body evolves the more the soul can manifest. The spirit has no identity before incarnation and has no previous knowledge because it is a quality.  ABU0252
 
Be it known that to know the reality or essence of the soul of man is impossible, for in order to know a thing, one must comprehend it, and since a thing cannot comprehend itself, to know one's self in substance or essence is impossible. As the comprehender cannot be comprehended, man cannot know himself in reality or essence.  ABU0185
 
Man possesses two kinds of life. One is the life of the body; the other is the life of the soul. The bodily life of man is the life of the animal.  ABU0182
 
But the inner and essential reality of man is not composed of elements and, therefore, cannot be decomposed. It is not an elemental composition subject to disintegration or death. A true and fundamental scientific principle is that an element itself never dies and cannot be destroyed for the reason that it is single and not composed. Therefore, it is not subject to decomposition.  ABU0138
 
Man is not man because of his body; man is man because of his soul, for in regard to bodily things humans and animals are partners. It is through the soul that he is distinguished from the animal.  ABU0114
 
As we have before indicated, this human reality stands between the higher and the lower in man, between the world of the animal and the world of Divinity...Man is selfish; They sever him from self and desire. Man is haughty; They make him meek, humble and friendly. He is earthly; They make him heavenly. Men are material; the Manifestations transform them into divine semblance.  ABU0033
 
 
It is not the body which feels pain or trouble but the soul.  ABU3340
 
The spirit in man is the perceiving soul, able to understand the realities of things and predominating over all things else. If the spirit of man, his perceiving soul, be confirmed by the spirit of faith so that it loves and knows God, and if it be guided by the guidance of God, and if the divine attributes be manifested in it, then there is a living soul which attains to eternal life.   ABU0647
 
 
The human spirit, which distinguishes man from animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms - the human spirit and the rational soul - refer to one and the same thing. This spirit, which philosophers call the rational soul, encompasses all other created things and, to the extent of human capacity, discovers the realities of things and gains knowledge of the properties and effects of contingent beings and the characteristics and particulars of physical existence. However, unless it is assisted by the spirit of faith, it will not become aware of divine mysteries and heavenly realities.  AB02018
 
As to your fourth question concerning the state of souls after their departure from the body, know that the soul is one of the abstract realities, and abstract reality is sanctified beyond time and space, for time and space pertain to the physical world and to that which occupies space. How can abstract reality, which hath neither body nor form, be confined by time or space? It transcendeth both. It is spirit, not matter--a heavenly grace, not earthly dross. It is light, not darkness; soul, not flesh. It belongeth to the realm of the All-Merciful, not to the mundane sphere. Its station is sanctified above all places, and its rank is exalted beyond all stations.  AB00068
 
The human spirit is the rational soul, that is, the one that perceives the realities of things, discovers them and encompasses them. It has brilliant effects, radiant lights, penetrating power and perfect ability, distinguished in all its conditions and concept from other spirits. It is baptized by water and spirit.  AB00709
 
 
Concerning thy question about the soul and spirit: by soul is meant the human reality which is oriented toward the contingent world and which possesses human characteristics in the world of man. This is termed the human natural spirit in which all people share. From this perspective, spirit and soul are one. However, the spiritual human reality is that which acquires the outpourings of divine grace and benefits from the effulgences of the Sun of Truth. That is the divine spirit which is specific to the people of faith, and those below them are deprived of these divine breaths and are considered dead in the estimation of the people of truth.  AB12666
 
the reality of the human spirit is detached from physical things and sanctified from embodiment in material elements. It is pure light, has no physical form, is a brilliant ray and a luminous radiance.  AB03919
 
For that pure spirit is an effulgence from the divine bounties and possesses all human perfections. This pure spirit is like a light hidden and concealed within a lamp, and when ignited by the fire of the love of God, its rays become manifest in the realm of existence.  AB07601
 
