
The Tree of the Cloud is in motion and the Lote-Tree of Faithfulness is in joy, that the Tree of Eternity might be planted in the land of oneness and the leaf of light might be joined with the mystic dove through the arts of the Divine Presence. Perchance from the companionship of these two divine subtleties and these two eternal mysteries a third countenance might appear, that the fruition of "We strengthened with a third" might become manifest in the realm of appearance. BH09880

The Point of the Cloud ['ama] journeyed until it came to rest upon the Throne of utterance. Then It composed the Temples of the Most Glorious Letters through a wondrous new arrangement. The [blessed] Word shone forth from the manifest brow, and He made all of it manifest and visible in the threefold Tha before the fourfold one, that "Blessed be God, the Best of Creators" might don a new garment and, through the outpouring of "He is the Truth, there is no God but Him," might bless all lands, that the universal divine power might be established and the [divine] lordly fruit might appear.  BH09581

Sanctified is His holy Essence from every abstract essence, and exalted is His pure Countenance above every praise and tribute. Then, through the requirements of the establishment of the Sovereign of justice upon the throne of mercy and grace, He created, through pure origination and sheer invention, the Point of existence and the Praiseworthy Countenance, which has been expressed through various terms such as the Eternal Countenance, the Divine Reed, the Primal Point, the Warbling of the Dove, the Perfect Word of Manifestation, the Divine Identity of the Cloud of Unknowing, and the Countenance of Ahmad and Muhammad.  "Each one in his own tongue utters praise of Thee, The nightingale through song and the musician through melody." BH00476

The Beauty of the Unseen lifted the veil of Glory from the Countenance of the Exemplar, and immediately His face appeared - and unto God belongs the most glorious similitude - manifest and visible from the Throne of the Divine Cloud. O joy to him who is illumined by the lights of His presence, the Self-Subsisting, and who is brightened by the radiance of His holy countenance. BH10808

And shower Thy blessings upon the Mystery of the Cloud, the Point of Light, the Beloved of the mystics.   BH07723

"Verily I am the Mystery within mysteries, I was the visible cloud of the Almighty...and behold the countenances in the horizon of the divine cloud with the Most Hidden Secret"  BB00204

Several divines came to visit Us [during those days, and] one of them inquired, "Where do You come from?", to which We replied, "We are from 'Ama'" [an allegorical reference to Heaven]. He asked what kind of place it was and where it was. We answered that 'Ama' has weather so pleasant as to be considered divine, trees laden with fruit, is green and verdant, has flowing rivers,and is a gathering-place for spiritual people. "Can we go there also?" asked one of the men, but I replied, "No, it is not possible; such a place is not suitable for you."  BHU0033

O people of Ha! Hearken unto the song of the Crimson Leaf in the atmosphere of the cloud of unknowing, that verily He is Light, the Temple of Glory, Who hath been, from God unto the worlds, a manifest light   BH00952

As to what thou didst ask about the Ocean of the Cloud ('Ama), know that it is an ocean which God hath placed above the seas of names, and the people of creation have not comprehended it. Were We to expound this station and interpret it as befitteth, the Tablets would not suffice, by thy Lord, the Cleaver of Dawn!   BH05189

The Blessed Perfection, in the Book of Ighan, in explaining the meaning of the statement about Christ coming in heaven and riding on the clouds, says that one meaning of the expression 'cloud', is the body of the prophet. Why is it that sometimes we cannot see the sun in the sky? It is because it is veiled from us by thick clouds: and in this sense, the body, the human nature of a prophet is a cloud, preventing the people from seeing His glorious light.  ABU0044

"Al-'Ama' in the language means a very light and subtle cloud that is seen and unseen. If you gaze with utmost care you find something, but as soon as you look, it cannot be seen. That is why, in the tradition of the investigators, by Al-'Ama' they mean the Universal Reality with no specifications, for specifications exist in the mode of simplicity and unity and are not distinguished from the essence. So it is both specified and unspecified, and this station is described as Divine Oneness and Al-'Ama', and it is the station of the Hidden Treasure mentioned in the Hadith."  AB06442

And along this subtle course that tradition can be interpreted such that the one who looks to God is the cloud which appears in the station of the mention of the First, and the relationship becomes one of honor - for in the Book of God the All-Glorious, the mention of the All-Merciful being established upon the Throne is like God being in a cloud. Indeed the word cloud is known from blindness, for there was naught there save God, and vision was blind to His countenance and eyes were blind to His presence. It is an absolute cloud, pure, unmixed, complete - naught was seen in its hiddenness or manifestation, in its outwardness or inwardness, save God, the Single, the One, the Eternal, the Unique, besides Whom there is no god, and there was naught with Him save Him.  BB00651

