
We have sent down the Bayan and made it the herald from Our presence   BH03370

Today, should He so will it, with but a single word He can cause whatsoever in the Bayan was confirmed to return to denial. He doeth whatsoever He willeth and shall not be asked of His doings.  BH00033

The foundation of the books of the Point of the Bayan is the Persian Bayan, wherein are recorded and inscribed the degrees of manifestation and appearance, and the resurrection of the chosen ones from the graves of mortality. It is the perspicuous Book and the essence of utterance.  BH08524

The Bab - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for Him - expressed agreement with the people of the Furqan (Muslims) in most matters, that He might attract those heedless souls to the direction of awareness. And this agreement was manifested to such an extent that in some instances mention of the four well-known gates flowed from that blessed Pen. However, this Most Great Revelation rent asunder the veils with the finger of power  BH00164

One word from the Divine Word in that Most Great Manifestation is better than all that was revealed in the Bayan   BH11125

the difference between Babi and Baha'i is as heaven from earth, because the obligations and duties of the Babis are the destruction of the world, while the aims and obligations of the Baha'is according to the Kitab-i-Aqdas and Ishraqat and Tajalliyat are the enlightenment of the human world and love and sincerity toward all peoples high and low   AB00648

Consider ye, then recall what the Point of the Bayan hath spoken concerning this Revelation, saying "Verily, I am the first to worship Him." The station of the Book, the Mother Book, the Tablet and the Preserved Tablet hath been and is manifest and evident. He saith that the Bayan and whatsoever hath been revealed therein is but a leaf among the leaves of His Paradise and is dependent upon His acceptance.   BH00372

The Bayan has been abrogated by the Kitab-i-Aqdas, except for those laws that are confirmed and mentioned in the Kitab-i-Aqdas.  AB06643

I bear witness that there is no God but Thee, and that the One marked by the Seven Letters is Thy servant, through whom Thou hast established what Thou didst desire in the Bayan.  BB00230

As for the laws of the Bayan which were changed by the text of the Most Holy Book and in the Persian Questions and Answers, there is no explanation or clarification, rather they are abrogated  AB01323

These four greetings are from the commandments of His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him) and have not been abrogated, and you have not acted contrary to the Law of God.   AB02696

The original law revealed in the Bayan, whose observance equaled all other deeds, and similar matters pertaining to the Manifestation - of all these they remained heedless, moved by their own desires.  BH02236


The Book of the Bayan has had all its laws abrogated by the Kitab-i-Aqdas, except for those laws that are mentioned and emphasized in the Kitab-i-Aqdas. The reference point for all is the Kitab-i-Aqdas, not the Bayan. The laws of the Bayan are abrogated  AB12244

What was revealed in the Bayan sufficeth you not today except through this Revelation, at whose appearance the Cock of the Throne crowed and the Tongue of Grandeur proclaimed: "The Kingdom belongeth unto God, the One, the All-Powerful, the All-Forgiving!"   BH02167

the laws in the Bayan were abrogated by the divine Book of Aqdas, for the authoritative Book for the Baha'is and the reference for all is the Book of Aqdas...many laws of the Bayan were abrogated by the Book of Aqdas and the Baha'is have no connection whatsoever with those laws  AB12207

For all that hath been exalted in the Bayan is but as a ring upon My hand, and I Myself am, verily, but a ring upon the hand of Him Whom God shall make manifest -- glorified be His mention! He turneth it as He pleaseth, for whatsoever He pleaseth, and through whatsoever He pleaseth.  BB00525

the Bayan has been abrogated by the Kitab-i-Aqdas and its laws are no longer in effect, except for those laws that were repeated and emphasized in the Kitab-i-Aqdas. The laws beyond those emphasized in the Kitab-i-Aqdas pertain to the people of the Bayan and have no connection to us.   AB02199

You have not yet comprehended the new resurrection, the new spirit, and the new words. The Cause of the Bayan is sanctified above those matters that have passed away. What was with you before has been rolled up, and a new carpet has been spread by leave of God, the Most High, the Most Manifest.  BH00004

O God! Preserve everyone who preserves the Bayan with all its letters, even to a single point, and cast away anyone who casts away the Bayan, even if his veiling be from a single point thereof, and he fails to preserve it, for this is Thy sustenance for all Thy creation until the next Resurrection.  BB00326

Today all the divine names have returned to their kingdom, and none comprehend this save those possessed of certitude and insight. Whatever hath been revealed in the Bayan, whether of ordinances or attributes pertaining to the Letters and Mirrors, profiteth no one except through recognition of this Manifestation.  BH00004

Among the laws of the Bayan are the striking of the necks of all peoples, the burning of all books, scriptures, psalms and papers, the conquest of East and West, and the demolition of elevated structures. Are such laws possible of implementation in this age? Nay, by God! Rather, they are impossible and unattainable.  AB00300

We have not abrogated the Bayan, but rather have been as the morning dew to that which was sown therein with justice. To this testifieth all things, and beyond them He Who knoweth both the hidden and the manifest. Through My manifestation the heaven of the Bayan was raised up and what was revealed therein was established.   BH00793

The Bayan was revealed for My remembrance and recognition, and the Tablets for this praiseworthy station. Say: O ignorant one! Fear God and speak not according to thy vain desires. Be fair in thy judgment regarding the Manifestation of God and His Cause, then regarding His sovereignty that hath encompassed all that is seen and unseen.   BH01041

These are the verses that were revealed aforetime, but lo, the Point of the Bayan now calleth out, exclaiming, "O Best-Beloved of the worlds!  Reveal Thou in their stead such words as will waft the fragrance of Thy gracious favours over all mankind.  We have announced unto everyone that one single word from Thee excelleth all that hath been sent down in the Bayan. BH00001

These laws of the Bayan have been abrogated by the explicit text of the Most Holy Book, as well as by the decisive texts of Tajalliyat, Bisharat, Kalimat, Ishraqat and Tarazat. Despite this, they make no distinction between Baha'i and Babi. The Book of Laws for the Baha'is is the Most Holy Book, not the Bayan, and all are bound by the ordinances contained therein.   AB00181

Moreover, the Herald - may our spirits be a sacrifice for all else but Him - hath decreed in the Book of Recompense that it is permissible to prepare for the believers varied delicacies and diverse bounties to the number of Mustagath. He hath likewise enjoined the wearing of silk and whatsoever is close to nature, refined and desirable, whether in attire or household furnishings.  BH04609

From this blessed word is established this supreme truth that this Most Great Manifestation and Mighty Announcement cannot be known through the Point and the Bayan. Therefore, if any soul denies the divine verses and heavenly evidences and lordly favors in this Manifestation, he is deprived of the Most Great Sea and forbidden from the effulgences of the lights of the Sun of Truth.   BH10444

We sent down the Bayan and made it glad tidings for mankind lest they stray from the path. But when the promise came to pass and the Promised One appeared, they turned away save those on whose faces thou seest the radiance of divine bounty. When it is said to them "By what proof did ye believe in God?" they say "The Bayan." Yet when its Revealer came to them they denied the All-Merciful.   BH02391

Behold with the eyes of certitude that the gates (chapters) of the religion of the Bayan are arranged in accordance with the number of all things. Beneath the shadow of each gate, all the angels of the heavens, the earth, and that which lieth between them, are, by the leave of God, immersed in glorification and magnification, sanctification and celebration of divine praise, and deeds and exaltation.  BB00001

Today the Bayan is contingent and dependent upon the acceptance of this Most Great Revelation. Verily We sent down for Our Herald that which brought solace to the eyes of God's Books, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting. We sent it to Him, and when it came before Him and He read it, He was so transported by the breezes of revelation that He soared wholly in My atmosphere and sought to attain My presence.   BH00753

Indeed, it is a matter of astonishment that Za'imu'd-Dawlih knows full well, as clear as the sun, that the Bayan has been entirely abrogated by the Kitab-i-Aqdas, and that our Book of Laws is the Kitab-i-Aqdas, and we are commanded to obey the texts of the Aqdas. Despite this, it has been alleged that our Book is the Bayan and that we are commanded to obey it. O glory be to God! How contrary to truth is this account! The Book is definitively and conclusively abrogated - abrogated indeed!  AB11634

God explicitly states in the Qur'an that two calls follow in succession, and the Bab--may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him--rent asunder all the veils of the people and set no condition for the appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest, declaring "Should He appear this very moment, I would be the first to adore Him", and explicitly stating: "Beware, beware lest thou be veiled by the Vahid of the Bayan or by what hath been revealed in the Bayan". Despite this, the people of the Bayan say that in the Bayan mention is made of Mustaghath and that the Vahid of the Bayan comprises the holy person of the Bab and the eighteen Letters of the Living. He says, Be not veiled from Him Whom God shall make manifest by the Vahid of the Bayan. Yet now the people of the Bayan are veiled a myriad times from the Sun of Truth.  ABU0345

Doth it beseem anyone to cling to the Bayan in his turning away from God, or to use it as proof when the All-Merciful hath come with His mighty kingdom? Verily, concerning Him Who cannot be indicated by any indication from Him Who revealed the Bayan nor by His Book, they say what those who denied God and His Messengers said not in former times. Thus hath My Pen spoken in this luminous Tablet. Blessed is he who pondereth this Word which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Bayan, and what hath befallen the Wronged One from the party of the heedless. Say: By God! This is a Revelation which the Books have not comprehended, and which none hath understood save His Self, the One Who dominateth the worlds. Say: Fear God, and weigh Him not by the Bayan. God hath made it but a leaf among the leaves of the garden of His presence, were ye of the fair-minded. BH03508

As regards the translation and publication of the Bayan, there are laws in the Bayan which have been abrogated by the Kitab-i-Aqdas and the Baha'is are bound by the laws of the Kitab-i-Aqdas. Were the Bayan to be published and translated, the peoples of the other countries -- and indeed even the Persians -- would think that the basis of the religion of the Baha'is was those severe laws which are found in the Bayan. Whereas according to the explicit text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas those laws are not applicable. Therefore, the Bayan must be published in all parts and corners of the world after the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, so that readers may know that those severe laws have been abrogated and canceled. Before the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas and its translation, and before its laws become well known, the publication of the Bayan is not permissible.  AB06330

The Book that abrogates all previous scriptures and books is the Most Holy Book, which is the foundation of the Preserved Tablet of the Covenant, and the Book of the Covenant is its interpreter and expositor.  AB01009

Tell the students that the Cause [amr] is not yet mature nor has it reached its appointed time. Therefore, if someone does not follow Islamic laws and beliefs has a relationship with me, my pure forefathers and I will be displeased with him in this world and the next. BB00627

From the first day God caused the waters of My existence to flow forth from His presence until thirty years were completed, I followed the law of the Quran, and it is the law which I had expounded before and established for God, the Lord of the worlds. Not a single letter was from Me, but all was from God, my Lord and your Lord. Just as God created Me when I was nothing, God sent down the entire path after I had done anything. But when the year was fulfilled, the Command was from God that I should judge according to what God had revealed to Me of the true religion, and that I should follow the path ordained in the Book by His leave.  BH00004
