Mr. Randall: "Will not the economic problems be solved first in America and will the United States be able to lay a just foundation and be an example to the world?" 'Abdu'l-Baha: "Certainly. The economic question will have great importance in Europe and America. This question is impossible of solution except through the Religion of God. Day by day it is settled, then it comes up again. It cannot be settled save by the Religion of God. Labour will not be satisfied in any way. In Egypt, for example, wages have been increased thirty per cent. Notwithstanding this they are not content. Where there is an agitation of the masses, it will not be quieted, until it reaches its climax. At last, things will come to such a state that they will say: 'The factories belong to us and the capitalists will get their share from us.' It will come to that. 'We will apportion the share they ought to receive, for instance, one-tenth.' They will take nine-tenths. Everything will become chaotic. At last it will reach such a state that the world of humanity will come to an absolute stand-still. Even the labourer will go hungry. Then absolutism will return, so that the Government may remedy it. For instance, if the workingmen of a factory strike, it will be useless; the Government will become so powerful. Nothing save the Religion of God will solve it. Nothing save the Religion of God. This will include both; the capitalists and labourers will be freed.  ABU1216

The Teachings of His Holiness Baha'u'llah declare the oneness of the world of humanity; cause religion to be the foundation of union and accord in the world; become conducive to good fellowship among the children of men; conform religion with science and reason; take away political prejudices and race prejudices; uphold the doctrine of perfect equality between men and women; espouse the cause of an international auxiliary language; foster the universalization of education; readjust and equalize in the most perfect manner the economic relations of the social structure; destroy totally the basis of hostility and ill-will from amongst mankind; constitute the five continents as one continent; suffer the various races of men to become as one race; rend asunder entirely the veils of superstitions; reveal in the assemblage of humanity the light of Truth; illumine the hearts with the rays of guidance; resurrect the spirits with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and baptize the souls with the water of Life Eternal, the fire of the love of God and the outpouring of the Divine Spirit. AB05484

The solution of economic questions for instance will not be accomplished by array of labor against capital and capital against labor in strife and conflict, but by voluntary attitude of sacrifice upon both sides. Then a real and lasting justness of conditions will be brought about.  ABU0026

The financiers and bankers must desist from lending money to any government contemplating to wage war upon an innocent nation.   ABU0776


In the Cause of the Blessed Beauty there is muvasat, which is higher than musavat (equality), but the difference lies in that it must be by free choice and willingness, not by compulsion, and ranks must be preserved. At the level of ranks, equality is not possible. The world is like an army which must have both commander and marshal and soldier; all cannot be commanders, nor all soldiers. Ranks must be preserved, but each, in his own station, must have comfort--not that one should have every variety and kind of bounty while another lacks even plain bread.  ABU2253

it is impossible that 'economic contentment' be realized by the people of the world save through the transforming power of faith.  ABU3041

The secrets of the whole economic question are divine in nature, and are concerned with the world of the heart and spirit. In the Baha'i teaching this is most completely explained.   ABU3362


Eighth, the problem of economics. A different regime has been formulated by Him which conserves degrees in the social body; nevertheless each individual member of the body politic will enjoy to the fullest extent the resources of the Creator.   ABU0382


Those villages around the big cities are represented by the House of Justice of that city...For example, there may be a farmer who has no animals, implements or seeds, and this committee will help him. There will be universal banks and the council will borrow money from them and loan it to the people   ABU0392


Among them are (the teachings) concerning the question of economics that all the members of the body politic may enjoy through the working out of this solution the greatest happiness, welfare and comfort without any harm or injury attacking the general order of things...In every village there must be established a general storehouse which will have a number of revenues.  ABU0042


The labor saving machines were given to create leisure for all mankind.... The first decided shortening of the hours will appear when a legal working day of eight hours is established... But this working day of eight hours is only the beginning. Soon there will be a six hour day, a five hour, a three hour day, even less than that, and the worker must be paid more for this management of machines, than he ever received for the exercise of his two hands alone.  ABU3667

Under the laws which are to govern the world, the socialists may justly demand human rights but without resort to force and violence. The governments will enact these laws, establishing just legislation and economics in order that all humanity may enjoy a full measure of welfare and privilege; but this will always be according to legal protection and procedure. Without legislative administration, rights and demands fail, and the welfare of the commonwealth cannot be realized.   ABU0689

The American laborers, relatively speaking, are more comfortable, as they receive higher wages. Also, the time of their labor is shorter. In Europe they suffer a great deal, for the farmers and peasants work day and night, and at the time of the harvest the despotic governments take almost everything from them as taxes in order to build dreadnaughts, battle ships, cast rapid fire cannons, prepare instruments of war, and accumulate means for the destruction of the human race and the shedding of blood of innocent people.   ABU0034


The fundamental basis of the community is agriculture, tillage of the soil. All must be producers. Each person in the community whose need is equal to his individual producing capacity shall be exempt from taxation. But if his income is greater than his needs, he must pay a tax until an adjustment is effected. That is to say, a man's capacity for production and his needs will be equalized and reconciled through taxation. If his production exceeds, he will pay a tax; if his necessities exceed his production, he shall receive an amount sufficient to equalize or adjust. Therefore, taxation will be proportionate to capacity and production, and there will be no poor in the community.  ABU0437


One of the most puzzling questions of that time-and even today-was the proper distribution of the salaries of the government employees. Often the arrears would accumulate to such an extent that the Minister of Finance would reduce them to a third or a fourth. This caused great many complaints and dissatisfaction on the part of the employees. For while they did not receive their salaries in time, they would borrow according to the sum which the government owed to them and the sudden reduction brought the creditors to their doors. However, this Prince Minister so reorganized the Finances of the country that the first day of every month, every employee would receive a small package containing his name on it, with full salary.  ABU0952

In solving this problem we must start with the farmer and end with other trades, because there are twice as many farmers, if not more, as there are people engaged in other trades. Thus it is right that we begin with them. The farmer is the primary factor in society. In every village a council of wise men of the village should be established and the whole village should be placed under its jurisdiction. In addition, a public treasury should be established with its own administrator. At harvest time a specific quantity of the general produce of the village should be appropriated for the treasury. This treasury will have seven sources of income, namely: tithes, taxes on livestock, unclaimed inheritance, property that has been found but that has no owner, buried treasure (if found, one third of it should be paid to the council), mines (one-third of the natural resources taken should be levied by the council) and donations. Likewise, there are to be seven categories of expenditure: first, moderate public expenditures such as the expenses of the council and maintenance of public health; second, payment of government taxes; third, payment of taxes on livestock to the government; fourth, care of orphans; fifth, providing for the disabled; sixth, management of schools; and seventh, providing the necessary means of livelihood for the poor.  AB00274

Between 1860 and 1865 you did a wonderful thing; you knocked the shackles from chattel slavery; but today you must do a much more wonderful thing: you must destroy industrial slavery.   ABU3532

Take a town of 100 people. If one man is only able to produce 100 bushels of grain and his family expenses are balanced by that, he gives nothing to the common treasury. But if his expenses are only 90 bushels, he gives a certain proportion. Another example: if he has 39 sheep, he gives nothing, but if he has 40 sheep, he must give one. If he has 80 sheep, or 200, he gives an increasing ratio.  ABU0124

As for the Akaus assembly whose purpose is as much as possible to transform social and economic revolutions and disorders into an order and tranquility that would bring comfort to the world of creation, tell them that today the power of revolution is intense and discord is great. It is impossible for the people of the world to find peace and rest except through a power that encompasses the human world.  AB00612


The solution of this problem is one of the fundamental principles of his holiness Baha'o'llah. But it must be solved with justice and not with force. If this problem is not solved lovingly it will result in war. Perfect communism and equality are an impossibility because they would upset the affairs and the order of the world. But there is a fair method which will not leave the poor in such need, nor the rich in such wealth.  ABU0001


For instance, God commands, 'But [they] prefer them [the poor] before themselves, although there be indigence among them.' That is, the believers spend of their substance and share their possessions and prefer others to themselves willingly and with utmost spirituality. Socialists, however, desire to enforce equality and association by compulsion. Although the preference for others which is the exhortation of God is more difficult because the rich are enjoined to prefer others to them-selves, this will become common and will be the cause of tranquillity and an aid to the order of the world, because it depends upon the inclination and willingness of the giver. But socialism and egalitarianism, although easier, as those who have are made equal with others, yet such a system will not become widespread and is the cause of disturbance and tumult because it rests on compulsion and coercion.  ABU1072


Q: Will the money of the rich ever be divided among the people without revolution or bloodshed? Will some men amass great fortunes in the future while others remain poor? Will the law prevent this condition of affairs?   A:  It will not be possible in the future for men to amass great fortunes by the labor of others. The rich will willingly divide. They will come to this gradually, naturally, by their own volition. It will never be accomplished by war and bloodshed. The ruling power or government cannot treat the rich unjustly. To force them to divide their wealth would be unjust. In the future, proportionately about three-quarters of the profits will go to the workmen and one-quarter to the owner. This condition will prevail in about one century. It will certainly come to pass.  ABU3026

there are only two ways of correcting the social conditions: it cannot be force. One is changing the hearts of the people, so that those who have great wealth will give freely and gladly. The other is by executing new and just laws which will regulate all the economic conditions, so that there will not be the extremes, the very rich nor the very poor.  ABU0124

So it became clear that equality between people in livelihood is impossible, and that king could not establish equality of livelihood even among his own kind. Nevertheless, it is not right that some should be extremely wealthy while others extremely poor. It must be improved and such laws established that all have comfort and wellbeing - neither should one be afflicted with poverty nor another have extreme wealth. For example, a wealthy person who has utmost wealth should not let another person have utmost poverty, but should take care of them so they too can be comfortable. This must be implemented through laws. The wealthy must themselves give their excess wealth to the poor, and likewise the country's laws must be such that by God's law everyone has comfort. ABU0462


Q:  Could not the Bahai Movement be furthered by use of socialist and labor union movements?  A:  All nations must become socialistic in spirit. People must not be forced by circumstances to help the poor. They must give aid willingly. That which the socialists aim to accomplish in the economic world will in time be done by the people freely through faith and love and cooperation. For that which is established through loving fellowship is permanent.  ABU3190

As to helping one another, this refers to the various pursuits of life, as commerce, trade, professions, etc. In whatsoever of these a believer is in need of help, that help should be rendered. But nobody should ask for this aid; it is the privilege of those of wealth to do this work; but it is optional. One should not ask for aid. It is better to die first in the faith. The beloved of God must be in the utmost state of severance. They must teach the whole world this sense of severance. How shameful it is in the sight of God for a person to impose upon another! Such people must be elevated. The work must attain such a pitch that should a wealthy person offer a gift to a poor man, the poor man should feel himself independent and not accept it. The time must come and the work get so high that every community will have a box for charity which may be full to the brim of gold and yet a poor man will refuse to take any so long as he is able to work for himself. The work must reach such a pitch. Now, in Persia many very poor believers will not accept anything from anyone. They are true believers. They want to serve themselves and to contribute themselves. Poor believers in Persia never ask of the rich; it is not customary. But the rich will do this themselves without being asked. In Esphahan there was a famine and two brothers gave all they had, but no one asked them. But the world will reach a state wherein neither absolute poverty nor great wealth will exist. Giving should be a joy to the giver, however poor he maybe, or however small his gift.  ABU1047



The patient poor are better than the thankful rich. But the thankful poor are better than the patient poor. And the best of all is the rich-giver who is free from temptations or tests, who becomes the cause of the happiness of mankind. Though through thankgiving blessings are increased, yet the most perfect thanksgiving is through giving, and the station of giving is the highest of all stations. Just as it is said in the Qur'an, 'Ye shall never receive blessings until ye give of that which ye love.' ABU2240

"Human perfection lies in voluntary good deeds, not in compelled good deeds. And beneficence is voluntary goodness, which means that the wealthy should show beneficence to the poor - that is, give to the poor, but of their own free will, not that the poor should compel the wealthy."  AB03273

"The Friends must strive and show efforts and assist. Whosoever is a believer and assured, firm in the Cause, there is no doubt that he will contribute towards the assistance of the poor. This is an evidence of the faith. But if a person comes in contact with another who is in the utmost need, and he sees that he can help, and if he fails, this is an evidence of the weakness of his faith."   ABU0266

To record contributions from those who are real Bahais - no one else is asked to contribute and no collections are taken at general meetings; and there are certain times appointed for receiving Bahai contributions and giving of receipts. To determine how such funds shall be spent; how much for teaching, how much for relief of the poor and so forth. Especially in the case of anonymous gifts, which are frequently received.   ABU0649

That is why it has been decreed in the divine religions that the wealthy should offer up each year a portion of their wealth for the sustenance of the poor and the assistance of the needy. This is one of the foundations of the religion of God and is an injunction binding upon all. And since in this regard one is not outwardly compelled or obliged by the government, but rather aids the poor at the prompting of one's own heart and in a spirit of joy and radiance, such a deed is most commendable, approved, and pleasing.   AB00099

