
"Will this misery-laden world ever attain happiness?" a visitor asked one day. The Master replied: "It is nearly two thousand years since His holiness the Lord Christ taught this prayer to His people: "Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth , as it is in Heaven.' Thinkest thou that He would have commanded thee to pray for that which would never come? That prayer is also a prophecy." ABU3207

Know that in language, 'Kingdom' (Malakut) is an intensification of 'dominion' (Mulk), meaning sovereignty. In the terminology of the people of truth, it refers to the divine realm which encompasses the earthly realm and is sanctified from the conditions, characteristics, limitations and imperfections of the material world - pure, perfect, ancient, luminous, spiritual; neither within contingent existence nor outside it; neither confined to space nor perceivable by physical senses. Its example is like the world of mind and spirit in the human temple, which encompasses the physical form and directs all conditions, members, parts, powers, senses and faculties of the human world - neither within nor without, for entering, exiting and mixing are characteristics of the physical world.  AB00765

The more the person advances in Divine things, the more will he receive the Attributes of Light; and the more he retrogrades, the more will he receive the attributes of darkness. This world is dark and in darkness, but the Spiritual World is Light. This is the Heavenly Kingdom. ABU1999

"Here we comprehend things according to our environment and adaptation. This world has not much capacity to conceive the truth. Twin sisters may embrace each other in the matrix and be entirely unconscious of the knowledge of their father and mother. But when they are born into this world theirs will be this deep consciousness."   ABU2488

I call people to the Kingdom of God  ABU2596

Admit us into Thy Kingdom of holiness  AB06736

didst enter the Most Exalted Paradise   BH10989

you will hear the melody of the Kingdom   ABU3161

You heard the melody of the celestial realm   AB06717

You are ever-present and gazing upon the Kingdom  AB11339

O thou who gazest upon the Kingdom of the All-Merciful!  AB10625

Ye are counted among the people of the immortal Kingdom.   BH08729

You found joy and delight and traversed the Kingdom of Light   AB06785

This happiness is eternal, and this life is life everlasting.   ABU3475

And in all conditions mayest thou ever soar to the Abha Kingdom.  AB09521

that thou mayest make the Kingdom of Abha thy refuge and shelter  AB09865

eternal salvation in the Most Glorious Kingdom and Supreme Heaven   AB05258

If you seek the ultimate goal, connect yourself to the Abha Kingdom   AB06254

To enter in the Kingdom of God is the greatest and most important duty.  ABU3590

in the ancient Kingdom hast beheld the beauty of that cherished Beloved   AB06669

keeping His Kingdom as the goal before your eyes here and in the beyond.   ABU3426

Let this hungry one sit around the celestial Table of Thy heavenly Food!   ABU2665

that thou mayest attain spiritual joy, eternal happiness and heavenly life  AB11279

the seats of truth and stations of holiness shall become thy dwelling-place  AB10426

you illumined and brightened the face of that noble elder in the Abha Kingdom  AB06154

He is as a brilliant lamp unto thee and will be with thee in the divine worlds.  BH07908

Today the Kingdom of God is illumined by the lights of the Sun of Manifestation   BH06040

that I may hearken to the melody of the Kingdom and seek eternal joy and delight   AB11931

the day wherein he enters the Kingdom of God. That is indeed a most memorable day.  ABU3211

Have lofty aspirations so that thou mayest attain in the kingdom of God to eternal life.  AB03623

Then shalt thou truly be a light of the kingdom and an example unto the Concourse above.  AB04866

You must enter in the Kingdom of Abha. In the Kingdom of Abha, there is light upon light.  ABU2621

They pursued the glory of the realm of unity and desired greatness in the heavenly world.   AB04559

making you a wayfarer on the path of the Kingdom, receiving the favors of your loving Lord  AB06444

when you hasten to the Abha Kingdom your face will shine bright, your eyes will open clear   AB04468

These bestowals will become apparent in the divine world, not in this earthly realm of dust  AB10828

the doors of the Kingdom have been opened and the Call of the Lord of the Kingdom upraised   AB11093

Turn thy face toward the Most Glorious Horizon and seek assistance from the Supreme Kingdom  AB10611

paving the way for the Kingdom of God on earth. For love and peace bring heaven down to earth  ABU3332

Turn day and night to the Kingdom of Abha. Supplicate for boundless favors from that Kingdom.  ABU2028

grant them the blessing of witnessing and attaining Thy presence in the Kingdom of mysteries   AB07067

in short, that you may attain to such a station as to be called the Children of the Kingdom.   ABU1456

There are three paths through which man obtains spiritual happiness. The first path is the path of ordeals, trials and difficulties. His feet are torn with thorns and thistles, he goes through many pains and torments but finally he reaches to his destination. The second path is a pleasant path but the traveler makes slow progress. He advances surely but slowly. Step by step he comes nearer and nearer to the goal. It may take many years but the persevering, determined, cheerful traveler goes on and on. The third path is the path of faith. With one step the traveler finds himself in the Kingdom; even less than the twinkling of an eye the change is wrought. In one moment, he travels from the world of negation into the world of affirmation. We have seen this with our own eyes. A man who has been the collective center of all the vices, having become a Baha'i is changed completely in less than a second. He has become another man. He has entered a new world of light.  ABU1949

Today in the horizon of the Abha Kingdom he shines like the morning star with utmost brilliance  AB03070

hast discovered the way to the celestial Kingdom and hast partaken a share from the eternal life  AB10036

God willing, may you all dwell beneath the divine Lote-Tree and be nourished by its goodly fruits  BH09977

so that I may hearken to the music of the Kingdom and attain to the joy and happiness everlasting  AB09728

The Doors of the Kingdom are open; and the sons of the Kingdom are in the utmost joy and happiness.  AB10097

Fix thy gaze upon the everlasting Beauty and that which hath been ordained for thee in the Kingdom.   BH10213

rest under the shade of the Tree of Life, and become eternal and established in the Kingdom of Being  AB09793

The sincere ones are in utmost joy and jubilation and in the highest paradise with an All-Forgiving God  AB10686

but rather hearts may become attached to the divine Kingdom and souls may rejoice in eternal outpourings   AB03865

If for a moment thou wouldst turn thy gaze toward the Kingdom of God from which the gates have been opened  AB03297

Whosoever enters in the Kingdom of God, he becomes the object of pardon and the forgiveness of the True One.  AB12572

Thou seest us, O my God, gathered around this table, praising Thy bounty, with our gaze set upon Thy Kingdom.   ABU3291

They are intoxicated by that chalice and in the rose garden of the Kingdom are like tulips holding the wine cup  AB05158

Thou hast been borne of the Spirit and hast entered the Kingdom of God. What bestowal is there greater than this?  AB06488

But the spiritual feast is supreme paradise and the divine celebration is the manifestation of the evident light.  AB02289

that thou mayest witness a goodly life and an eternal existence in the Most Glorious Kingdom and observe manifest signs  BH09280

Our real happiness is in the Kingdom. Therefore we must know what happiness exists in the Other world, and not in this.   ABU2920

Now it is my hope that you and people like unto you may sit around this divine table and partake of this heavenly Food.   ABU1934

In reality, there is no happiness in the world of existence for men except in the splendors of the Light of the Kingdom.  AB10308

Such souls are accounted as letters of God's Book and abide eternally in the immortal Kingdom, enduring as God endureth.   BH02608

Praise be to God, the treasure of the Kingdom is present and prepared, and the divine treasure is manifest like an ocean   AB04049

Though thou art small in the physical and material world, I beseech God to make thee great in spirit in the Kingdom of God  AB10996

"From the boughs of this blessed Tree I am singing with wondrous melodies in praise and glorification of the Ancient Beauty"  AB03215

Verily this is the life of satisfaction, the spiritual existence, heavenly repose, divine benediction and the celestial table!  AB03258

He would be so beauteous if the light of God could shine upon him and so wise were he was to seek the knowledge of the Kingdom.  AB06568

In this world and the world beyond we Baha'is have but one goal: to live and to work for the Kingdom of God (Malakut-i-Allah).   ABU3351

Those souls who enter God's Kingdom, according to Christ's words, do not die. So enter God's Kingdom so you will not fear death.  ABU2059

Assist him, then, suffer him to enter the garden of immortality, and honor him with the privilege of witnessing and meeting Thee.  AB04554

May God illumine thy face in His most glorious Kingdom, and expand thy breast through the outpourings of His most exalted Dominion  AB03168

guided all those present to turn toward the Supreme Kingdom and the imperishable dominion and eternal life and everlasting felicity  ABU2992

When the heart becometh free from attachment unto this world, it will crave for the world of the Kingdom and seek for eternal life.   AB07141

Happy art thou who hast entered this Supreme Paradise under the shadow of the Tree of Life and hast partaken of the Heavenly Table.   AB04696

"For thy beloved child has hastened to the embrace of the heavenly Father and has turned his face to the Kingdom of the All-Merciful"  AB05528

Although the grace of attainment was not achieved in the nearest horizon, God willing, thou shalt attain in the Most Glorious Kingdom   AB07570

In the Abha Kingdom there is a station which is the ultimate goal of those near to God and the highest aspiration of the sincere ones   AB06350

God's loved ones have another mystery and another song. Their world is another world, their life another life, their air another air.   ABU0635

it behoveth us to find intimacy in the kingdom of sanctity, for it is a union without separation and a meeting not followed by parting  AB10144

when thou takest flight from this dusty realm of darkness to the luminous world, thou shalt hasten to the private chamber of the Truth  AB09181

Today in the realm of the Kingdom he sits upon the throne of might wearing a crown of divine gifts and exercises spiritual sovereignty.  AB00669

The contents of the letter indicated that ye have been attracted to the Kingdom of God and set ablaze with the fire of the love of God.  AB12467

This is the eternal glory. This is the eternal life. This is the entrance into the Kingdom of God, the dominion which will last forever.  ABU1152

We beseech God to aid thee and grant thee success and ordain for thee that which is the cause of eternal life and everlasting existence.   BH04915

Turn thy face toward the Abha Kingdom, seek to grasp the hem of His grandeur, find thy dwelling and shelter beneath the Sadratu'l-Muntaha  AB12550

As soon as he begins to be detached from this world the Spirit of the Kingdom, like unto a sun, will shine from the horizon of his heart.   ABU3196

O thou who art looking for the Kingdom of God! The spacious Kingdom was newly adorned, and like unto paradise, manifested beautiful scenes.  AB10295

seek that which endureth in God's Kingdom, and pursue everlasting life, eternal glory, heavenly rest, and the outpourings of the All-Merciful  AB10681

Cause the birds of souls to soar in another atmosphere, and make the intimates of the mortal realm familiar with the mysteries of the Kingdom.  AB02984

Since you belong to this class of souls, therefore you have realized the Kingdom of God and have partaken of the bestowals of the Holy Spirit.  AB06377

because the clear hearts are in reality assembled in union in the Kingdom of God, while bodies are dispersed in the east and west of the earth  AB09694

because the clear hearts are in reality assembled in union in the Kingdom of God, while bodies are dispersed in the east and west of the earth.  AB09694

As we find ourselves eating with each other here, so we hope that we shall partake of the Divine Food with each other in the Kingdom of Heaven.  ABU2373

heavenly souls shall find their way to the divine pavilion and shine forth from the horizon of inner meanings and realities with infinite lights  AB02713

As Christ foretold, we will take the real food in the Kingdom with the Father. That is the real meeting. It has no limit, no end, no separation.  ABU1770

beholds such a holy manifestation from the Kingdom of sanctification that it becomes bewildered at witnessing the attributes of the All-Merciful  AB10425

pray for you the spirit of the Kingdom and the second birth, so that you may enter from the natural world into the world of the Merciful Kingdom.  AB12634

Then the heart is purified, the spirit gladdened with the Good-News of the Kingdom and the realm of morality will become the delectable paradise.   ABU1455

The doors of the Ideal Heaven of God are opened and some souls are on the wing like unto birds of holiness and have attained to the divine Kingdom.  AB10963

When he hasteneth from this world to the world of the Kingdom and maketh his way to the divine realm, then his spiritual life will attain completion.  AB02957

that you may become members of the heavenly assembly and pillars of the celestial parliament, for this station is eternal and has no end or separation.  AB04020

Therefore, true sweetness lies in the chambers of paradise, and the sweetness and beauty of the All-Merciful is found in the countenances of fellowship.  AB10538

joined the angels of the celestial realm, meaning they acquired heavenly attributes and found their way to the private chamber of the All-Merciful Lord.   AB07184

make him like the morning light shining from the horizon of success in the kingdom of spirits, where Thou hast delivered him from the darkness of shadows  AB04953

"According to the words of His Holiness Christ, those who enter the Kingdom of God will never die. Then enter the Divine Kingdom, and fear death no more."   ABU3224

O inmates of the Kingdom! Intone the name of the Beloved, for the beauty of His Cause hath shone forth from behind the veils, adorned with a luminous spirit.   BH00759

Wherefore, lift up thine eyes, turn thy gaze toward the Kingdom of Abha, and behold that heavenly pearl shining radiantly upon the diadem of everlasting majesty.  AB08138

entrance into the Kingdom of Baha'u'llah. The Glory of man is through the Love of God, entrance into his Kingdom and being imbued with his divine characteristics.  ABU2779

successful in attaining the gifts of the Kingdom...so that when we ascend to the Kingdom we may attain Your presence and be joyous and glad in the Supreme Concourse  AB05754

They have become weary of the earthly world and seek the pure realm, the luminous kingdom...They have been freed from this world and have taken flight to Your realm  AB03368

May we receive abundant portion from the Forgiving Lord in this age of light, may we enter the divine Kingdom, may we seek eternal grace and find everlasting bounty.  AB04708

This world is likened unto the ocean; the law and teachings of God is the ship; the mate is the covenant; the Captain is God; and the seashore is the kingdom of Abha.  ABU3498

partaken of the bounty of the Kingdom of El-ABHA, chanted the verses of unity and worn the crown of guidance of the Glorious Lord on thy head. This is the real Kingdom!  AB11273

When thou dost enter the market place of the All-Merciful which is in the divine Kingdom, however, thou shalt become the manifestation of His grace and bountiful favour.   AB06624

I hope that you, along with all your sons and daughter, will enter under the shade of this heavenly tent and receive your share and portion from the bounty of eternal life   AB06818

All the powers of the world are limited, but the power of God's Kingdom is unlimited. All powers will eventually cease to exist, but the power of the Kingdom exists forever.  AB07417

Praise be to God that a crown from the glorious Kingdom rests upon the heads of the friends, and the eternal throne of sovereignty in that world is the felicity of the friends  AB06791

Since all are gathered in the shade of the Blessed Tree and are beheld by the glances of the Eye of Mercifulness, and in the Abha Paradise we are intoxicated with the pure wine  AB04034

Know thou that the Kingdom of heaven belongeth to such tender plants of the Abha Paradise, and the grace of the Realm of Might is for these children of the school of Divine love.  AB09396

If you open the eye of the soul and gaze upon the Kingdom of the Beloved, you will observe that this is a letter of freedom by which you will gain admittance to the divine Kingdom  AB09181

Know thou that the realm of the Kingdom belongeth to the newcomers to the Garden of Abha, and the bounties of the realm of divinity are for the children in the school of divine love.  AB09396

We are helpless birds with broken wings, yet we desire to soar in the realm of the Kingdom... Make our tongues eloquent and our eyes seeing, that we may behold the realm of the Kingdom  AB05585

If thou comprehendest this grace and favor, this bounty and blessing, thou wilt become worthy of the holy court of the Self-Subsisting Lord and enter into the lights of His countenance   AB03169

The title of queen is true for those handmaidens who have attained recognition of the Truth, and they are in truth the queens of the kingdoms of the celestial realm and will ever be so.   BH05943

When these perfections shine forth like brilliant lights from the horizon of the soul and such joy and spirituality are attained, every joy and perfection is in the shadow of compulsion.  ABU2824

This is the time of Solomonic grandeur and the season of spiritual sovereignty, and that servitude at the Sacred Divine Threshold - this is eternal dominion and everlasting crown-bearing.  AB11488

supplicating my Lord that we may meet together at the meetings of His Kingdom and the pavilions of His might, where we shall chant the verses of thanks for His bounty, generosity and gifts  AB08426

In the eternal world, then, which is the world of divine unity and heavenly oneness, friendship and spiritual intimacy are naturally among the essential requisites of that sanctified world.  AB09920

This is the illumination of the world of humanity! This is the eternal life! This is the sublimity of human nature. This is heavenly glory! This is the radiant crown of the Kingdom of Abha!   ABU2526

May thine eyes be opened to the Greater Signs, and mayest thou become intimate with the mysteries of the Self-Sufficient Lord, and in all conditions mayest thou ever soar to the Abha Kingdom.  AB09521

Strive day and night that its lustre and brightness may increase, so that the Light of God may environ all the regions, the Kingdom of God may be established and the Glory of Abha be revealed.   ABU2753

When the birds of the garden of truth burst into song and melody, the hearing of the people of the Kingdom is stirred, and the hearts of the denizens of Paradise are moved to ecstasy and rapture.   AB07532

Wherefore dwell thou ever in the Kingdom, and be thou oblivious of this world below. Be thou so wholly absorbed in the emanations of the spirit that nothing in the world of man will distract thee.  AB05227

At last, he departed from this evanescent abode and returned to the everlasting world, eager to meet Thee, humble before Thy face, attracted to Thee, and confident in Thy grace and Thy forgiveness.  AB03893

whomsoever thou findest dwelling beneath the extended shade is steadfast and enduring. For they have entered beneath the shade of His countenance and have been admitted into the paradise of His grace  AB09430

Entrance into the Kingdom is through the love of God, through detachment, through sanctity and holiness, through truthfulness and purity, through steadfastness and faithfulness, and through self-sacrifice.  AB00336

One must attend to the affairs of this world only to the extent necessary and spend the remaining time on the Kingdom of God, so that eternal illumination may be attained and everlasting permanence secured  AB09210

One should attend to the affairs of this world only to the extent necessary and spend the remaining time on the Kingdom of God, so that eternal illumination may be achieved and everlasting existence obtained  AB09210

who have winged their flight to the Supreme Concourse, the horizon of utmost glory, with the wings of attraction...grant them an exalted station in the Kingdom of Lights, delighting in the vision of mysteries.  AB05934

How fortunate and blessed in destiny you are, that you came into existence from the lineage of one whose heart is alive with eternal life and who is promised fresh and verdant sustenance in the immortal Kingdom  AB09067

Enter into the Cause of Baha'u'llah and act in accordance with His counsels. When you have attained to the pinnacle of your development in the Cause of Baha'u'llah, you will see how confirmations are granted you.  ABU3754

He hath soared with the spirit, and We are now in a garden of delight...He who hath soared to the Supreme Horizon remaineth beneath the shadow of My Hidden Name and My Resplendent Being. He is in joy and gladness.  BH10433

"God, through His mighty hand, will build for ye solid palaces in His Kingdom which will not be destroyed forever and evermore; nay, rather its foundation will be strengthened in the course of ages and centuries."  AB04965


The denizens of the Kingdom derive their joy from the bounties of God and set their hopes on His infinite grace. They exult in the outpourings of divine bounty and are gladdened by the favours of the Lord of Hosts.  AB12038

that pit shall become even as a sheltering paradise, an exalted meadow, and a garden of delight. It shall become a place of the gladdening of the spirit, and the centre of the attraction of the hearts to the Kingdom.  AB12083

Exalt their stations in the realm of names, and endow them with truthful tongues among the dwellers of creation. Suffer them to gain admission, after their ascension, into the heaven of reunion with the Exalted Friend.   AB02634

Though I was saddened by Emil Ruof's ascension to the Supreme Kingdom, I find solace in knowing that though this lamp was extinguished in the niche of this earthly realm, it has been kindled in the glass of the Kingdom.  AB12315

Fix thy gaze upon the Supreme Realm and the Kingdom on high - thou shalt witness a rising that hath no setting after it, and observe a day that hath no night to follow. All is rising and radiance, manifestation and light  AB09398

Praise be to God, the feast of bounty is richly adorned, and this is the era of the supreme Paradise. Blessed are those who attain! Glad tidings to those who arrive! O joy to the yearning ones! And bravo, bravo to the steadfast!   AB05050

Turn your gaze to the Most Glorious Horizon and fix your eyes on the Supreme Kingdom. Whatever is the ultimate desire of the unitarians will be attained, and whatever is the greatest gift of the Lord of the Worlds will be achieved.   AB02377

And so will ye nestle together hereafter, in the rose-garden of the All-Merciful in the Abha Kingdom, upon the branches of the divine Lote-Tree. For ye are the birds of the meadow of guidance and the nightingales of the bower of bounty.   AB06052

"Know ye the value of these days, for today man is able to attain unto a station or essence which extinction shall not overtake and which ages and centuries shall not alter. Blessed is the soul that hath attained and hath not been deprived."   BH04377

This is the station I desire for you, that you may enter the Kingdom of God and know eternal peace and happiness. Otherwise, should you become the possessors of all the world's treasures, you would remain afflicted with toil and adversity in the end.  ABU3714

Now, like the morning bird, he warbleth and singeth in the gardens of the Kingdom, and upon the branches of the world of immortality he continuously chanteth. He is intoxicated with the cup of bounty and overcome by the wine of forgiveness and pardon.  AB06320

enter the kingdom of harmony, drink of the cup of the love of God, rejoice at the manifestation of the Kingdom of God, taste the delight of the mention of God, and shelter themselves in the shadow of the Tree of Life in the midst of the Paradise of God  AB07110

Those souls that, in this day, enter the divine kingdom and attain everlasting life, although materially dwelling on earth, yet in reality soar in the realm of heaven. Their bodies may linger on earth but their spirits travel in the immensity of space.  AB06878

The lights of hearts are brighter than the sun, and the outpouring of spirits more copious than the rain-cloud. How blessed then are those souls who have gained a portion of the rays of the Sun of Truth that shineth forth from the Most Glorious Horizon.  AB08025

Thank thou God that the doors of the Kingdom are opened and the way of the Truth become manifest and evident. Therefore, enter thou completely into this divine Kingdom; that is, acquire heavenly bliss and beatitude and turn thy face to the Luminous Realm  AB08087

"In the same way that we are gathered here in the utmost love and friendship, I hope that, God willing, we will meet in the Kingdom of Abha. The essential gathering is there. That gathering is everlasting. There is no separation therein. This is our hope."  ABU0934

Therefore know with certainty that joy and delight, pleasure and gladness, attainment to the divine presence, the ultimate goal, the supreme garden, and the most exalted paradise are from the realities of the Kingdom, not from the elements of the material world.  AB05577

Those children will, God willing, become the children of the Kingdom and, beneath the protecting shadow of the favors of the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - will become fruit-bearing trees and flowers and sweet herbs in the Abha Paradise.  AB07996

a son who now dwelleth within the tabernacle of My majesty and glory, and whose face beameth with a light that envelopeth with its radiance the Maids of Heaven in their celestial chambers, and beyond them the inmates of My Paradise, and the denizens of the Cities of Holiness.   BH02628

O Thou Lord of the Kingdom! Cause Thou the rejoicing of my heart; empower my weak spirit and strengthen my exhausted nerves. Illumine Thou my eyes: suffer my ears to become hearing, so that I may hearken to the music of the Kingdom and attain to the joy and happiness everlasting.  AB09728

If you put your efforts into understanding the precepts of the Kingdom instead of into acquiring worldly shares and rights, you will gain perpetual joy and happiness. The Kingdom of God is vast. He will give you whatever you desire and there will be no place for strife and conflict.   ABU2832

O thou who gazest upon the Kingdom of existence! The people of prostration must needs have a countenance radiant as the most luminous sun through the bounty of the Praised Station, and those assured of the Most Great Signs should have faces illumined by the favors of the All-Glorious.  AB09540

"I hope our joy will be eternal, that we shall be together in all the divine worlds, that we shall find shelter under the protection of Baha'u'llah. There is union there that knows no separation, a day that has no night following it, joy that knows no sorrow, life that finds no death."   ABU2049

When the people live in the realm of light, then their hearts will be illumined; then their spirits will be rejoiced with the divine Glad Tidings, then their minds will become the receptacles of the Holy Spirit; then they shall be regenerated; then they shall enter in the Kingdom of Abha.   ABU2658

Because the grace of the Kingdom of ABHA makes the weak to become strong, the poor to become wealthy; the confused one to become assured, and renders happiness to the grieved soul. It makes the disappointed soul to become hopeful, and a deprived man to become initiated. This is heavenly power.   ABU1506

Its palaces are ever illumined by the lights of the Kingdom. Its season is always spring. Its trees are ever green and flourishing. Its fruits are fresh and tender. Its sun is forever rising. Its moon is always a brilliant full moon. Its assembly is always radiant and its cups are ever-circulating.  ABU0677

However, the children of the Kingdom are engaged in sowing the seeds in the field of truth so that they may gather a rich harvest, may achieve everlasting grace and blessings, may partake of life eternal, may reap incorruptible benefits and shine resplendent like stars from the horizon of the Kingdom.  AB09607

But when their heart is turned toward the Kingdom of God and their happiness comes from the bounties of the highest horizon, they become free from every sorrow. They attach their heart to the divine world, become the confidant of the human world, and promote the signs and mysteries of the All-Merciful.   ABU1432

The truth I say unto you! If ye were aware of what God hath destined for you in the kingdom of His glory, verily ye would rejoice exceedingly and soar with the wings of joy unto the heights of happiness, crying with the most loud voice: "Blessings and happiness from this great attainment and evident bounty."   AB05399

although thou art living on the face of the earth, yet thou mayest truly be in heaven; that although outwardly thou art composed of material elements, yet spiritually thou mayest become composed of heavenly elements. This is the everlasting glory of man! This is the eternal sublimity in the world of existence!   AB04955

"However when they step into this world, after they have grown, they recognize each other and they realize that they have a father and mother and how great and self-sacrificing have been their father and mother. So when you ascend into the realm of light you will then realize how great is my fatherhood for you."   ABU2488

Now through the endless grace of the Beloved, the Kind One, He has made the prison of the wanderers into a delightful expanse, and the jail of the longing ones into a rose garden and meadow. Therefore this mighty prison is a supreme paradise, and this strong fortress the recipient of the favors of the Greatest Name.  AB11861

"Tell them that 'The suns of the garden of El-ABHA are still shining, the moons rising, the stars brightening, the gifts perpetual, the grace perfect, the glad-tidings spreading, the signs of singleness and oneness are chanted in the cloister of its Godhead and the flags of sanctity are waving above the palaces of its glory.'"  AB04918

I wish you to live in the world of the Spirit--to see the Divine Reality in everything,--to behold the illumination of the world of the Kingdom beyond and within the gloomy mask of this mortal existence. For the world of the Kingdom is a world of Lights, a world of happiness, a world of accomplishment, the real and eternal world.   ABU0721

Bind thy heart to the Most Glorious Beloved - may my spirit and my very essence be sacrificed for His loved ones - that thou mayest attain attachment to the Supreme Companion and enter the Most Glorious Paradise, the songful Garden, and the verdant orchards, and be seated upon the throne of sovereignty at the very heart of Paradise.  AB09519

It is the City Limitless; not one has yet found its boundary. Its Sun never sets; its Moon is ever a full moon, it never is on the wane; its stars are all suns; its season is ever Spring; its blossoms and flowers never wither; its trees are ever fruitful. All living beings in that City are unaware of death, and death never overtakes them.   ABU1646

thou didst attain unto the presence of the Most High, sought the shelter of His unsurpassing mercy, gained admittance into the Abha Kingdom, ascended unto the highest heaven, rose to the loftiest station, entered within the heavenly abode, reposed in the gardens of delight, hearkened to the melodies of the birds of holiness singing upon the blessed Tree   AB07084

O Khousrow in the Kingdom of inner mystery. Every soul that partakes of this spiritual banquet, every soul that enters beneath the shadow of God and becomes intoxicated from the eternal cup vouchsafed by the divine Bestower, such a one is the king of existence, a star shining in the kingdoms of both the worlds and the ruler over the country of heart and soul.  AB06175

These spiritual powers, these divine susceptibilities cry out at all times with the clarion call of the Kingdom and with a potency born of the soul, saying: O thou endowed with sight! Behold the Divine Principle at work! Reflect on the potent Kingdom of the Lord of Light. See the traces of the Holy Spirit in the world and the signs of the Sovereign of the all-Highest Paradise on every side.  AB08042

These are they who rejoice in the meeting with God in their first life, and in the hereafter they shall abide beneath the shadow of His favor. They shall ride upon the lightning of light and journey in the atmosphere of Paradise, enjoying the holy bounties. They shall drink the wine of eternity from hands of luminous glory and shall dwell in the highest pavilion among the concourse of the near ones.  BH11492

Take thy habitation and dwelling place beneath the shade of the Divine Lote-Tree, and make thy home in the rose-garden of Paradise. Through the grace and bounty of the All-Merciful, seek wings and pinions, and soar in the Abha Paradise which is a reflection and sign of the Abha Kingdom, that thou mayest become a holy dove in the gardens of sanctity and a nightingale of intimacy in the meadows of detachment.   AB08917

the Kingdom of God hath raised its tent and tabernacle upon the apex of the world, the standard of the Kingdom is hoisted, the call of the Kingdom is sent forth and the hosts of the Kingdom have appeared. Therefore, there are many fortresses and castles of hearts which are conquered and many regions of spirits which are subdued. The lights of the Kingdom have shone forth from the horizon of the East and the West.   AB06333

"But the birds of the heavenly rose garden yearn to fly towards the shelter of the All-Merciful. Their hearts are fixed on that sanctified nest in the shades of the Sadrat-ul-Muntaha. The birds of the meadow of truth seek the verdure of the Ridvan and the nightingales of the All-Merciful seek the sweet fields where whose denizens are the Supreme Concourse and here, in such places as these, they sing their wondrous melodies and their exquisite songs."  AB05195

This is the Kingdom that was promised by Christ. This is the Kingdom that all the Prophets gave glad tidings of. This is the Kingdom whose sun is ever at its zenith. This is the Kingdom whose moon and stars never set. This is the Kingdom whose season is perpetually springtime. This is the Kingdom whose trees are ever-bearing. This is the Kingdom whose air is always life-giving. This is the Kingdom whose life is eternal and whose glory is everlasting.   AB06276

The nightingale will soar toward the Rose-garden of Eternity and on the branches of the Tree of Life it shall perch, singing sweetly the songs of Freedom and Peace... Within the breast of this nightingale, a hundred thousand heart-rejoicing songs are hidden! Once out of the cage, it shall wing its way toward the Horizon of Everlasting glory and there join its heavenly voice with the celestial choir, ever singing, ever singing, never dreaming of return.   ABU1776

His Holiness Baha'u'llah hath ordained for His believers eternal Sovereignty which is not overthrown and annihilated through the lapse of centuries and cycles. The foundation of any other Sovereignty is not securely laid. Therefore you must strive in that which is permanent and unchangeable. The Sovereignty of the world is like unto the mirage and the Sovereignty of the Kingdom is like unto the ocean of water. The latter is the Reality, the former is superficiality.   ABU3494

This world is the empire of the spiritual sovereignty of the Abha Beauty, and this realm is the seat where the mighty throne of the Kingdom of the Exalted One is established. Its effulgent sun, its shining moon never set, its brilliant stars never fade, its bright horizon is never overcast. Its oceans surge and its birds soar in the heights. Its streams are living waters, soft-flowing rivers of immortality. Its trees are saplings planted in the orchard of the Lord of Glory.  AB00743

Today the existing souls in the world, despite their outward life, are reckoned as dead in the sight of God, for those possessed of true life are souls who have attained unto the recognition of God. They are the possessors of eternal life and everlasting existence. And those dead who have received their portion from the breezes of revelation and the fragrances of inspiration, and have drunk from the Kawthar of recognition from the hand of bounty - they are alive and enduring in the sight of God.   BH01225

But those who have advanced to the Kingdom of God have assuredly advanced to a sea of clear and limpid water and thus have attained unto the greatest bounty, the perfect rest and the eternal life to which there is no abrupt end. Their faces have shined with joy, their souls delighted with pleasure, their hearts illumined and their cups overflowed with abundance. Their edifice hath risen high, their palaces have been adorned, their suns shone, their stars gleamed and their diadems radiated with a dazzling light. Their dominions have expanded and their lights have spread to all ages and generations.   AB02446

asleep to the Kingdom yet awake to the realm of dust!   AB06646

That pure soul calls out from the realm of the Kingdom   AB06362

These acceptable deeds will take on a tangible form in the Abha Kingdom   AB04860

may an assembly of the denizens of the Kingdom be formed in this earthly realm   AB04633

all who dwell in the kingdom of heaven would swoon away, how much more those who dwell in the realm of dust   BH08535

Be of the trees in the gardens of the Kingdom and of the flowers in the meadows of the realm of divine grace   AB06656

"Show me the way to the retreat of the Kingdom and make me the object of the eye of favor in the sanctuary of the Realm of Might."  AB11974

holy souls forgot this world and saw themselves in the Abha Kingdom...that sheds its radiance from the hidden realm of the Abha Kingdom  AB04292

Make melody in the Kingdom and play in the sanctuaries of the Realm of Might, with the tune and melody of the Kingdom of Names... that trembling and quaking may seize the pillars of the mortal world   AB06862

All gatherings are of the material world but praise be to God this assembly is of the divine realm. All are confined to the natural world but praise be to God you are oriented toward the divine Kingdom   ABU2224

Make the Abha Kingdom thy perspective and the highest heaven thy destination. Fix thy gaze upon the horizon of glory and turn thy attention to the heaven of bounty. All directions and quarters belong to the realm of place, but the Abha Kingdom is sanctified above directions. All rising points exist in the contingent world, but that eternal kingdom exists in the placeless realm. Every region and kingdom is bounded, but that enduring kingdom is abstract and distinct.   AB06950
