Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God.  AB00876

He hath created all things through the Word which He created from His Will that hath appeared and shone forth from the sovereignty of the Divine Purpose   BH09746

Say: All return unto God and all begin through His command. Say: Nothing returns unto the Essence of God, but all return unto His Command and all begin through His Command.  BB00004

Thou art He Who created all contingent beings through a word from the Book of Thy Command, and brought forth all existing things through a drop from the cloud of Thy power.   BH08310

Praise be to God Who hath created the heavens and the earth in truth, and Whose decree concerning them both hath proceeded from the Point of the letter Ba in the center of the Fire around the Gate.  BB00002

He is the One Who hath manifested the Point, and from it detailed the knowledge of what was and what will be, though it was itself created by the Will that proceeded from Him and was brought into being by a stroke of His Pen.   BH01424

All things, with all that hath been destined, or will ever be destined thereof, have verily attained thingness by virtue of the thingness of the Will, and have achieved reality through His identity. It is to the Will that God hath assigned the Beginning of the creation of all things, and it is unto Him that He hath ordained the return of the creation of all things.  BB00001

The world, i.e. the universe, is eternal. The earth is but one planet where natural life is millions and millions of years old. Life on earth did not exist from the beginning and all at once, but it developed in stages and by degrees. The atoms of the elements are predisposed (programmed) to synthesis and composition according to the laws of nature; the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will operates and creates in this manner. The Primal Will operates in the element, in the primal atom, as attraction and repulsion; on the next higher level as organic life; then as animal-vegetative; and finally as spiritual life, which is destined to rise to the super-spiritual. What develops is not the physical substratum (base), which actually exists from the beginning in its different kinds, each of which then develops only within its own kind to higher perfection, but rather does the Cosmic Spirit, the divine Primal Will, unfold within the creature just as the bud of a flower unfolds ever more completely, purely and beautifully, and will finally, in the fully-redeemed, totally purified man, return to the Godhead, to be immersed and fused in the Godhead.  ABU0170

The philosophers also each say that a force or universal reality is the source of all created things. Their difference with the Prophets is only in this: that the Prophets say that universal reality and all-encompassing aspect is the absolutely wealthy, perceiving and choosing by will, while the philosophers consider it poor, non-perceiving and powerless.  ABU2461

There was no cause for Thy creation save Thy bringing it into being, and no reason for Thy invention save Thy origination of it.  BH11123

When you recognize the mystery of creation through what has descended in the hidden indications of these expressions, witness that the philosophers have slipped in the station of recognizing that First Emanation, which is the letter Kaf revolving upon itself, by itself, for itself, from itself - for they are unable to comprehend how God originated the Will by itself, for itself, from itself, without being touched by the fire of His Essence.  BB00042

It continues eternally in the highest station as the Creator which was manifested to it at the beginning of its creation as a sign of the appearance of His Self-Subsistence, a mirror reflecting His Countenance of Eternality, and a geometry for the manifestation of His sovereignty. It is the sign for which God has made no beginning except the perpetuity of His grace, and no end except in itself. It has ever drawn from God, by itself and for itself, in all ranks of the unseen and visible realms, and it has no exhaustion.  BB00114

Behold in truth that God, exalted be He, is eternally One, none beside Him, never changing from His single state, now as He was, His Self His Self, and creation dwells in the plane of His dominion. When He willed - and God's Will is His bringing into being, not from anything - He did not beget anything but rather created things through Will, and created Will through itself. Will is the first point mentioned in contingent existence, and it is the First Remembrance whereby God remembered Himself: "Verily I am God, there is no god but I. I was a hidden treasure and I loved to be known, so I created creation that I might be known."  BB00098

Nothing can don the garment of existence save through choice in genesis and law, for the cause of choice is choice itself.  BB00219

number me with those who have circled round Thy Will and Thy Purpose  BH11288

all today are veiled from the Point of Will and the all-embracing Word   BH10210

All that is mentioned in the realm of possibility referreth to the Will   BH03664

the spiritual wine that hath flowed from the finger of God's Will, the All-Merciful.  BH10196

Divine counsels are a spiritual feast sent down from the heaven of the All-Merciful Will.  BH10017

So take the meaning of the verse from the Primal Will to the ultimate station of dominion  BB00568

That is according to the Will of God. When God wills they step into the arena of human life.   ABU1477

The Sun of the Word hath dawned from the horizon of the All-Merciful Will with wondrous and sublime lights.   BH06203

Then once again God, glorified and exalted be Him, created the Primal Will, and created all things through Him.  BB00001

The world of Command is the station of the Primal Will which is a universal reality that is resolved into infinite forms.   AB00538

The fire that came down from heaven was no other than the Fire of the Love of God descending from the heaven of the Divine Will  ABU2680

"When God willed a thing, the Will came into being through God, not from anything, and fell prostrate upon its throne before God"   BB00318

The Will of God is more penetrating in the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them than the will of all peoples.  BB00004

The Divine Will hath appeared from the horizon of Purpose, and It is sovereign over all names and their Kingdom, and attributes and their Dominion.  BH07447

He hath created all things through the Will which He hath brought into being in the realm of possibility through the essence of possibility itself.   BH01299

When great events unfold, they are part of this interconnected system, guided by God's will. Even seemingly small occurrences are part of this divine plan.   ABU2400

Rather is it the Primal Will, which consisteth of the radiance and bounties of that Sun, that causeth the manifestation, appearance, and visibility of all beings.   AB00153

We created all contingent things through the Contingent Will, and it is verily the Most Great Word that appeared with a sovereignty witnessed throughout all worlds.   BH04496

Within Thy grasp is the kingdom of all things. Thou createst whatsoever Thou willest, how Thou willest, by what means Thou willest, and for what purpose Thou willest  BB00595


We should not be occupied with our failings and weakness, but concern ourselves about the Will of God so that It may flow through us, thereby healing these human infirmities.   ABU3538


all matters are dependent upon the signature that returns to the Decree that returns to Destiny that returns to the Will that returns to the Primal Will which creates by My command  BH01636

"without His wish and bidding no leaf hath stirred, nor shall ever stir. In whatsoever cometh to pass there is a wisdom, and all must radiantly and optimistically acquiesce therein."  BH02726

But the holy Manifestations in the world of creation spoke of a third station which is the station of Will and the medium for the outpouring of the unknowable, imperceptible Mystery.   ABU0678

On that victorious day the angels, which are the sanctified human realities, and the Spirit, which is the Primal Will, ascend to the Kingdom of spiritual perfections and divine virtues.   AB02699

Then another point appeared, and verily it was the Primal Will, through which God created all that was and will be, and all that appeared before and will appear unto the end that hath no end.  BH01602

In it the Primal Will came into existence before the mention of contingent things. In it Lordship appeared and all servitude was established... through the essence of the aforementioned Will, in its own station   BB00240

Therefore, do Thou send Thy blessings upon the First Light that shone forth from Thy Being, and gleamed from the Essence of Thy Self, and beamed from the Sun of Thy Oneness, and dawned from the Moon of Thy creation   BB00577

'Ali is the Sovereign of His Will, then His Purpose, then His Remembrance and Glory, then His Manifestation and Grandeur, then His Concealment and Mystery. All were sent forth by His command and all through Him are created.   BH02539


His Will is the Father of the world and His Purpose is the Mother of the children of Adam, and Divine Destiny--that is the station of the geometry of all things from God, the Creator of heaven--and Divine Decree is His firm and established judgment.   BH07911

Through His power He created Will from nothing, and through His Will He brought forth Desire from naught. Then He raised up whatsoever He pleased by His command in the kingdoms of His might and holiness, and in the realms of His detachment and grace.  BB00003

Would that we were like the leaves of the trees, which have no motion of their own - their movements come from the wind, and the wind appears through the Will. Would that we servants too had our motion and stillness proceed from the Will of God, exalted be His glory.   BH01551

Through pure creativity He hath brought the contingent Will into being from the midst of sheer nothingness, and hath attributed it to Himself as a mark of honor, even as He hath called the Kaaba His House. He hath brought all creation into existence through its existence.  BB00017

Whoso knoweth of a certainty that He is the Point of the Qur'an manifested in His Resurrection, and the Point of the Bayan in His first Revelation, and that He is the Primal Will Who existeth by Himself, the Self-Subsistent, while all things are created by His bidding, and exist by Him  BB00001

The first veil is at the mention of specification, where reference is made to the Divine Will, the First Creation, the First Mention, the Sun of Reality, the Morn of Eternity, the Muhammadan Essence, the Primal Unity, the First Manifestation, the First Action, the First Mirror, the First Effulgence  BB00005

The beginning of the existence of the Primal Will--which is the Cause of causes and the ultimate light of the Eternal Morn--was but from nothing, as You manifested unto it through itself, and it was established in its shadow. You bestowed upon it what it could bear of what it would create through itself.   BB00197


If a soul attaineth unto the recognition of God and truly knoweth Him as "He who doeth what He willeth and ordaineth what He pleaseth," he will never be prevented by any trial nor disturbed by any occurrence. Such a one is the drinker from the cup of assurance and the attainer unto the station of certitude.   BH00586

From it all things were fashioned, through it all things were called into being, upon it all things were founded, and within it all things found their establishment. Through it was the Divine Will brought into being before the mention of thingness, and in it was Lordship made manifest and all servitude made firm.  BB00240

and in contingency there has never been and never shall be anything greater than His Most Great Will. And this is the Single Point through which in every Dispensation the beloved conditions are created through the acceptance of creation, and the glorious conditions of the Beloved are made manifest to His companions.   BB00242

By the cause is meant the Primal Will, and by what is created through the cause is meant the conditions of that cause until the appearance of the end. When thou desirest something, look not to the means and the cause, but rather look to God Who created all things through the cause and created the cause without a cause.  BB00003

That which was hidden has been revealed through the all-compelling Supreme Will. The manifestors of conjecture and idle fancy seized upon an imaginary thing and clung to it. But the Hand of Divine Power removed the veil and rent asunder the covering, revealing what was hidden in the breasts before the faces of the world.  BH05596

And hallowed and blessed greetings be upon the all-embracing Word, the radiant Flame, the conclusive Proof, the Most Great Sign, the Primal Will, the luminous Reality, and the Essence that has overflowed upon all things, and upon those who love it, follow its guidance and direction, and fulfill its covenant and testament.  AB08392

Praise be to God Who hath made the line, formed from the Primal Point manifest in the letter B, the ornament of His Name, the All-Subduing above all names. Then He divided it in two through the mystery concealed between the two commands, and joined the one with the other through the wisdom hidden beneath the veil of destiny.  BH11761

God created all things through the Primal Will and created the Primal Will by itself, for this is manifest where God revealed Himself to the Point of the Bayan through itself, by itself, of itself, and caused it to speak verses which are its proof from its Lord apart from aught else. Then He created through it all who are in the Bayan.  BB00027

When He willed - and God's Will is His bringing into being, not from anything - He did not beget anything but rather created things through Will, and created Will through itself. Will is the first point mentioned in contingent existence, and it is the First Remembrance whereby God remembered Himself: Verily I am God, there is no god but I.  BB00098

He hath created the Will, then through it created whatsoever He desired. And the example of the creation of the Will is like unto the sun - were it to rise unto infinity times infinity, it would still be one sun. Likewise the Will, from a beginning that hath no beginning unto an end that hath no end, were it to appear, it would still be one Will.  BB00506

As to the third, that all objects in the world are made or formed by will. Then, there should be a Creator for everything, for instance, to place the eye in its own place, the ear in its proper place, etc. Such a power creates, gives life to man, and works through His will. We call this will, GOD! All the prophets believed in such a Great Being.   ABU0965

Through Thy power, from which nothing can withstand Thy will, and through Thy might, which no thing can frustrate before Thy strength, Thou dost quicken whom Thou willest through the manifestations of Thy glorious grandeur, the holy revelations of Thy eternal sovereignty, the conditions of Thy glorious oneness, and the dawning-places of Thy wondrous bounty.  BB00024

All that the mirrors reflect are but reflections of itself, and all that the crystals display are but expressions of its essence. Such is the creation of the Will, created from nothing by itself for itself, after God cast within it the likeness of its own revelation. Then there appeared from it that which filled the heavens and the earth and all that lies between them.  BB00005

As for the heavenly spirit, it is a holy essence, a perfect word, a complete sign, the mystery of existence, and the reality hidden from the eyes of all beings. It is the Supreme Pen, the Most Merciful Soul, and the manifestation of Truth from the dawning-place of creation and its sun at the point of invention. This is specifically for the Prophets in the worlds of creation.   BH01497

The first thing to emanate from God is that universal reality which the ancient philosophers termed the First Intellect and which the people of Baha call the Primal Will. This emanation, with respect to its action in the world of God, is not limited by either time or place and has neither beginning nor end, for in relation to God the beginning and the end are one and the same.  AB00876

Through the Kaf God created the substance of things and the sign of His uniqueness and the temple of His oneness, indicating God alone, and it is the highest consciousness in contingency wherein God alone is known, and it is called the heart. Through the Nun God created things from the beginning of inclination toward Himself to the uttermost multiplicity, from infinity unto infinity.  BB00022

And as for what thou didst desire that God should guide whom thou lovest unto Him - God, thy Lord, is the Best of guides. He desired through His Primary Will to guide all things, but some love God and therefore love, while others love not. And when some remained veiled, God caused His Secondary Will to flow after His proof had been completed and perfected against those who were veiled from the Primary Will.   BB00243

Indeed, He created it by itself for itself, without any soul preceding it, nor any mention equaling it, nor any attribute resembling it, nor any description opposing it. He made its essence identical with its own reality, and its being identical with its own identity. It is the Cause of causes in the origins of the Command and the ultimate endings, which God hath placed in the station of Will as His own station.  BB00014

Praise be to God Who brought the Primal Will into being before all things, that His sovereignty might be made manifest in the kingdom of Command and Creation, and that all atoms might know what God hath testified concerning His Own Self by His Own Self from all eternity: that there is none other God but Him. He hath ever existed when naught existed with Him, and He will forever continue to be while no thing shall be mentioned at His level.  BB00042

God hath created all things through His Will, and hath created the Will through itself, and it is the Primal Remembrance, and this is the Eternal Remembrance. All things were created through it, whether of heaven or earth, mountain or sea, great creation or small. It verily encompasseth all the heavens and all the earth and whatsoever is between them - an encompassment of knowledge and dominion, not of physical embodiment within physical form.  BB00005

He hath brought forth Will for the existence of essences, Purpose for the determination of quiddities, Destiny for the ordering of beings, Decree for the manifestation of meanings in essential realities, and Permission, Term, and Book for the perfection of capacities in the realm of concrete existence.   BB00064


In its primary rank, in the station of divine unity and the ancient, heavenly sanctuary, it is a mystery of God's mysteries, a protection from God's protections, treasured in God's treasuries, concealed in God's knowledge, sealed with God's seal. None has comprehended it save the One, the Single, the All-Informed, for in that station it is the Primal Will itself and the dawning of Divine Unity, shining forth by itself upon the horizons, illuminating whoever turns toward it.  BH00271


He hath chosen for Himself an impregnable Essence, a resplendent Abstraction, an exalted Reality, a subtle Luminosity and an ancient Purity. Then He revealed Himself unto it through it and cast into its essence the likeness of itself. And lo, His signs appeared through it and filled the kingdom of His heaven and His earth, testifying that there is no God but Him and that the Essence of the Seven Letters is His servant and His Word, and that the Manifestations of the Living One are His primary guides.  BB00003

When it is established through the radiant proof of reason, which speaks of the verses manifested in his essence, the servant knows that the Bearer of the First Remembrance, which is the Primal Will, could not have appeared in the realm of creation except that his name be Muhammad - may God's peace be upon him and his family. For the letter of beginning, with all its ranks perfected and its manifestations complete, when it descended to the earthly station, indicated naught but the mystery of his reality.  BB00014

Glorified and exalted be He! He hath created the Will from naught through the existence of contingent things, then Purpose for the determination of essential realities, then Destiny for the geometry of material things, then Decree for the judgment of origination in beings, then Term for the limits of quiddities, then Permission for the manifestation of universals and particulars in the world of names and attributes, then the Book to encompass all that His knowledge hath encompassed in the realm of possibility.  BB00029

When the Ocean of God's Primal Will turned towards creation and its adornment, and the refinement of souls and their preparation, He ordained the Supreme Pen as His first interpreter and commanded it to promulgate His laws and ordinances. These laws and ordinances have had and shall have no purpose except the preservation of souls, their comfort, education and advancement to the heights of certitude, which are the cause and reason for the prosperity of the world, its security and the perpetuation of existence.   BH00862

He hath moreover deposited within the realities of all created things the emblem of His Will's recognition that everyone may know of a certainty that the Primal Will is the Beginning and the End, the Manifest and the Hidden, the Maker and the Sustainer, the Omnipotent and the All-Knowing, the One Who heareth and perceiveth all things, He Who is invincible in His power and standeth supreme in His Own identity, He Who quickeneth and causeth to die, the All-Powerful, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the Most High.  BB00001

The Primal Will existed, through itself, of itself, by itself, and He made it the embellishment of the garments of the Divine Essence, the Camphorated, the Pre-existent, through which all adorned things were adorned in the manifestations of the heaven of the realm of martyrdom. From the beginning when sight was adorned, it was a sign thereof, and verily the Will which God made the station of His Essence and His Grandeur was adorned with Purpose, and He made it the station of itself. Then through it He adorned His Essence through its manifestation through Destiny.  BB00677

He created the Primal Will before all things from nothing through itself, and fashioned it according to the form of its acceptance without any precedent, and ordained for it the law of correspondence in the form of its unity without any condition save its own essence. And He distinguished within its unified whole through the decree of the pair, which is its servitude, and brought forth through it the decree of the sister of the Primal Will without any creation besides it, and established it in the station of its authority in every aspect of its essential nature.   BB00205

And if thou sailest upon the sea of creation, know that the example of the Primal Will is like unto the sun, which God, exalted be His glory, hath created through His all-pervading power. From a beginning that hath no beginning, He hath made it manifest in every Dispensation through His Will, and unto an end that hath no end, He shall continue to make it manifest through His decree. Know thou that its example is like unto the sun - if it should rise unto infinity, there would still be but one sun, and if it should set unto infinity, there would still be but one sun.  BB00015

Through the Most Holy Effulgence, the attributes of the Divine Essence have manifested from the plane of Divine Unity into the plane of Primordial Unity. In this station, the archetypal realities are determined through a concrete intellectual existence, not through external existence, for these realities have never inhaled the fragrance of external existence. Rather, they exist through Divine intellectual existence. This station represents the first manifestation of Truth from the Hidden Treasury, and is expressed as Primordial Unity, Divinity, and the station of archetypal realities.  AB03551

Know that God created the Primal Will before all things and made it at the time of existence its own cause, not anything else, for it is the First Remembrance about which the Imam, peace be upon him, said to Yunus when asked Do you know what the Primal Will is? He said No. Then Ali said It is the First Remembrance. Indeed God, through His subtle wisdom and mighty craftsmanship, has placed within it the sign of His Self-Subsistence, that it might indicate His unity in every aspect. It has seven aspects through which nothing can be clothed with existence except through them. This is the rank of the Primal Will which we express in the highest sense as the First Remembrance, with which nothing else is mentioned.  BB00114

The ethereal substance is, therefore, the active force since light, heat and electricity appear from it. It is also the recipient, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible. For instance, light is a vibration occurring in that ethereal substance. From these vibrations the power of sight is affected, and the result is visibility. Likewise, vibrations occur in air and from them the eardrum is affected. That effect is sound and the result is hearing. He says that the Nature which they consider as the source of all beings is the manifestation of His Creative Name. That is to say, the Holy Essence is sanctified from all names and attributes, even from being known as the First Cause. It is the First Cause that is the source of all being and which has been interpreted as Nature. The point is this: All the conditions and perfections that the philosophers attribute to Nature are the same as have been attributed to the Primal Will in the Holy Scriptures. It is clear that the Primal Will is the manifestation of the Creative Name.  AB00373

Praise, sanctified from the limitations of created things and exalted above the doubts of all beings, befitteth the most holy, most exalted, most inaccessible court of the Lord of existence and the Sovereign of the seen and unseen, Who, through His irrevocable decree, ordained the Pen of Command to be the source of ancient mysteries and the fountain of life for all the peoples of the world, that all nations might attain unto eternal, everlasting life. That life-giving water appeared in the form of the Word among creation and shone forth through a single effulgence, and that effulgence was manifested according to the diversity of mirrors in the forms of mirrors. That Word is the Primal Form into which the Divine Spirit breathed the Merciful Spirit, whereby He took hold of all spirits and bestowed upon them a new spirit. In some mirrors it appeared in the form and effect of light, and He guided it to the Dayspring of revelation; and in others it appeared in the form of fire, and He caused it to return to the evil dwelling place which is the abode of the wicked. This blessed Primal Word hath been called by all names - in one place as the Trumpet, in another as the Bugle, and likewise as the Path, the Balance, and the like. It is the cause of the gathering and resurrection of all things whatsoever that have been created in earth and heaven. Through it was manifested all that hath been sent down in the Book concerning the Hour and its signs, and the Resurrection and what shall appear therein. In one station it cannot be described by any description nor mentioned by any mention, while in another station it is described by the most exalted attributes and mentioned by the most beautiful names. Verily it is the Primal Will which created itself by itself and created through itself all else besides it.  BH00135


Know thou that the outward station of this Word among the stars and heavenly bodies is that of the sun; among letters and words it representeth the right pillar; among the ranks of divine action it representeth the Will; among the elements it representeth heat; among the seasons, summer; among measurements, length; in man's outer form it representeth sight, for the station of sight is that of fire; in man's inner being it representeth the heart; among the faculties it representeth the inner heart; among colors it representeth yellow; and among the elements it representeth fire. Though in each of these stations it representeth all stations and ranks - for instance, when it representeth fire it also representeth water, and through it fire appeared in the worlds of creation and the servants are warmed by the heat of God's love.  BH00073