This peace will come about after great upheavals and events take place.  ABU3463

that the banner of the Most Great Peace may wave at the pole of the world  AB07766

O God! Raise aloft the banner of the oneness of mankind and establish the Most Great Peace.  AB04517

Now the question of disarmament must be put into practice by all the nations and not only by one or two.  ABU0566

for its foundation is the unity of the human world, universal peace, fellowship and love between all humanity  AB06615

Become the instrument of the Most Great Peace for all people and promote reconciliation between East and West.  AB01971

"Thou hast no desire but to see the banner of universal peace unfurled. This is the first of the teachings of Baha'u'llah."  AB03998

Now is the dawn of universal peace; my hope is that its sun will fully shine, converting the darkness of war, strife and wrangling among men into the light of union, harmony and affection.   AB01206

May this American democracy be the first nation to establish the foundation of international agreement. May it be the first nation to proclaim the unity of mankind. May it be the first to unfurl the Standard of the Most Great Peace.  AB10300

The greatest need of Europe is the organization of a European Congress in which the delegates of various Powers may discuss seriously the possibility of immediate, concurrent disarmament but they do not listen to an advice of this nature.  ABU2929

Praise be to God, signs of awakening have appeared in some people - it is the beginning of the dawn of the Most Great Peace. A Supreme Tribunal will be established, and difficulties arising between nations and peoples will be resolved in that Supreme Tribunal.  ABU0113

Strife and conflict will surely be removed from all the nations of the earth. Carnage shall be taken away; fighting, violence and reviling will be changed into universal reconciliation and the hosts of tranquillity will pitch their tents in the midst of the world.  AB06429

Today the most important of all matters in the human world is the question of universal peace, which is the greatest means for life and happiness of humankind. Without this radiant truth, humanity will never find true rest nor progress, but rather day by day calamity and misfortune will increase.   AB00423

Praise be to God, His lights are shining and His teachings are spreading in East and West. Soon you shall see what influence they have wrought and how the Most Great Peace has spread and the standard of the oneness of mankind has been raised, and what movement and excitement have appeared among the souls of the world.  ABU0223

I beseech God that what was formerly ordained by the Lord of the Cause may be made manifest--and that is the Most Great Peace. Should the kings attain to this supreme blessing and mighty gift, torment will be transformed into ease, tyranny into justice, poverty into wealth, hardship into bounty, and anxiety into tranquility.  BH00640

Now that ye have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye fast unto this, the Lesser Peace, that haply ye may in some degree better your own condition and that of your dependents. O rulers of the earth! Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need no more armaments save in a measure to safeguard your territories and dominions.  BH00662

Today the greatest service to the Kingdom of God is promoting human unity and serving universal peace...They are the cause of death while you are the cause of life...And among the greatest teachings of Baha'u'llah is universal peace which is the cause of comfort and tranquility for humanity...Today the greatest foundation of the Kingdom of God is promoting universal peace and the unity of the human world.  AB00609

It must be established so that the world of creation may find rest, and East and West and the five continents of the world may embrace one another, and all may repose beneath the pavilion of the unity of humankind, until the banner of universal peace waves over all horizons. Until this issue becomes the light of the world's assemblies, eternal happiness will not be attained and estrangement will not be transformed into unity.  AB01146

Eventually it will be firmly established through the power of Baha'u'llah. Although the representatives of governments have assembled in Paris to establish the foundation of universal peace and bestow comfort and tranquility upon the human world, yet misunderstanding still prevails and self-interest remains. Therefore, universal peace will not easily manifest and new difficulties will arise, for intentions are not in harmony - rather, desires are different.   AB04819

If so great a remedy would be applied to the sick body of the world, it would certainly be the means of continually and permanently healing its illness by the conciliation of universal moderation. Reflect that, under such conditions of life, no Government would need to prepare and accumulate war materials, or would need to pay heed to the invention of new weapons of defence for the vexation and hurt of mankind. On the contrary they would require only a few soldiers, as a means of assuring the safety of the state and punishing the wicked and rebellious and preventing the growth of civil sedition. Not more than these few would be needed. In the first place, therefore, the servants of God--that is to say, all the inhabitants of a state--would be freed from bearing the burden of the tremendous expense of an army; in the second, the many persons who now devote their lives to the invention of fresh instruments of war would no longer waste their time on such work, which but encourages ferocity and bloodthirstiness, and is repugnant to the universal ideal of humanity. On the contrary, they would employ their natural gifts in the cause if the general well-being and would contribute towards the peace and salvation of mankind. All the rulers of the world will then be settled on peaceful thrones amid the glory of a perfect civilization, and all the nations and the peoples will rest in the cradle of peace and comfort.  ABU1720

