
Thou hast witnessed the conduct of 'Abdu'l-Baha; follow that example.  AB08003

I who am your example have been a merchant by profession. It behoves you in all your transactions to follow in My way.  BBU0013

follow the path of Abdu'l-Baha, taking Him as your excellent example - which means responding to every unkindness with faithfulness  AB11252

Let your acts be a guide unto all mankind, that from your behaviour and conduct they may be enabled to recognize the signs and commandments of God.  BHU0058

Any of the friends who conduct themselves according to the divine teachings become a light to the human world and a brilliant star in the horizon of eternal glory.  AB06692

Wherefore, give thanks unto God inasmuch as He hath made you exemplars unto His loved ones. And in you is an excellent example for them to follow in the path of God.  AB04124

Praise be to God, you too have followed his example, becoming a manifestation of "the son is the secret of his father." To the extent possible, walk in his path and follow his example in all things   AB06089

I must be an example that you may learn to do the same, resisting all difficulties that firmness and steadfastness may be shown. Strength will be given to sustain work for God if the purpose is to aid him.  ABU2501

And now, I hope that thou shalt become the cause of the illumination of souls, so that they may acquire a heavenly nature, and that thy goodly character may exert its influence upon a vast number of people.  AB12027

Holy and assured souls must manifest such deeds and character as are befitting, that all the peoples of the earth may follow their example, so that the light of recognition may encompass and illumine the world.  BH11778

By My life! The hosts of deeds are My mightiest armies, and virtuous character is the helper and champion of My Cause. Verily He hath come from the heaven of grace with the banners of loving-kindness and justice.  BH11311

They who exhort others unto justice, while themselves committing iniquity, stand accused of falsehood by the inmates of the Kingdom and by those who circle round the throne of their Lord, the Almighty, the Beneficent, for that which their tongues have uttered.  BH00007

When a person's life is purely moral, when his daily actions are propelled by ethical forces he will influence tremendously the lives of those who come in touch with him. The insincere man learns from him the lessons of sincerity, the faithless becomes faithful, the ignorant wise, and the cowardly, courageous.  ABU3333

Observe what the Arab poet says: In those who have gone before us in past ages, we find examples. This means those souls who have passed before us, these peoples and nations who preceded us in bygone centuries. Which of these souls became like unto a brilliant lamp and attained the highest pinnacle of eternal glory?  ABU0144

We hope that the person in question will become aware and awakened through your good conduct and surpassing respect, and will observe that at such a time and in such circumstances, this kind of respect and consideration clearly springs from sincere intentions and has its source in the essential virtues of the people of God.  AB04652

show by your life you have something different, so that all will see and will say, 'What has this person that I have not?' Show the world that in spite of the utmost suffering, poverty, sickness, you have something which gives you comfort, strength and peace - that you are happy - serene - satisfied with all that is in your life. Then they, too, will want what you possess - and will need no further teaching - after you tell them what it is.  AB04630

All eyes of the world are fixed upon us who are here under the shade of the Holy Shrine. All eyes are upon us - both those within and those without - all are focused on this point to see what will appear and emerge from us. We must be such that all creation is astonished by our conduct and behavior. When souls who come to visit the Holy Shrine meet us, if they are withered may they become fresh and verdant, if they are dejected may they become enkindled, if they are heedless may they become aware, if they are bound may they become detached.  ABU0142
