A man must ever think of the protection of others and not of himself.  ABU3458

and they desire not for anyone save what they would desire for themselves.  BB00004

Be unto others as ye are unto yourselves. Thus doth the Lord of the worlds command you.   BH09261

It must be so that each friend should prefer others to himself; the others should be first to him...His Holiness Christ said: 'Do unto others..', but his Holiness Baha'u'llah says--Prefer him to thyself.  ABU1004

O son of man! If thine eyes be turned towards mercy, forsake the things that profit thee, and cleave unto that which will profit mankind. And if thine eyes be turned towards justice, choose thou for thy neighbor that which thou choosest for thyself.  BH00005

"In all the Books, both past and future, He hath commanded that the unitarians and those who have turned towards Him should prefer others over themselves. They should make their paramount concern the vindication of truth and the elimination of falsehood, and should choose for their brethren what they choose for themselves."   BH01896

Look ye upon others as ye look upon yourselves. This is the way of God   BH06616


If he is not thoughtful of others...no one can say he is a Baha'i.   ABU3277

A man must ever think of the protection of others and not of himself.  ABU3458


Be dissolved in love, so that you may lose consciousness of everything except the good of all.  ABU1805


The difference between me and the rest is that I wish the welfare of the people for their own sakes and without any ulterior motive.  ABU2348


Man, therefore must be self-sacrificing to such an extent; otherwise if he seeks after his own interests and rest he is like unto the animals.   ABU1566

"Those souls who prefer themselves to others are tied with selfish iron-bonds but those who prefer others to themselves are the benefactors of human race."  ABU3338

Man must be self-sacrificing in the service of the Cause of God and the diffusion of the Fragrances of God. Man must not be self-centered and self-occupied but public-spirited.  ABU2553

Today the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abha are with those who renounce themselves, forget their own opinions, cast aside personalities and are thinking of the welfare of others.   ABU2867


There are also a number of individuals who are detached so far as themselves are concerned but they [are] looking after the welfare and tranquility of others. They prefer the happiness and the rest of others to their own. They do not mind if they are injured but they would feel most keenly if their fellowmen are harmed or maltreated. Their happiness is bound with that of mankind.   ABU2895

He never thinks of himself, never considers that he has a life in this world, and "they prefer others over themselves, even though poverty be their portion." The first sign of faith is that one person prefers another over himself. This is the first sign of sincerity. Self-worship is the attribute of animals. An animal does not think of other animals; all its thoughts are confined to itself.   ABU0885

The people of the world are thinking of, by, and for themselves. They are promoting their own selfish interests and serving their own small causes. Each soul is attached to his own hobby and beating his own drum and soaring in the atmosphere of his own desire. In brief all their movements are dictated by obedience to self. They live, move and feel like unto the animals, self-centred, self-occupied, seeing nothing, believing in nothing beyond their five senses.   ABU1405

Ye are ever thinking and mentioning how ye may kindle a light, bring a tree to fruition, illumine a heart, make an eye seeing, and make an ear hearing. This is the station of the noble ones, and this is the station of the righteous ones.  AB04750

Every imperfect soul is self-centred and thinketh only of his own good. But as his thoughts expand a little he will begin to think of the welfare and comfort of his family. If his ideas still more widen, his concern will be the felicity of his fellow citizens; and if still they widen, he will be thinking of the glory of his land and of his race. But when ideas and views reach the utmost degree of expansion and attain the stage of perfection, then will he be interested in the exaltation of humankind. He will then be the well-wisher of all men and the seeker of the weal and prosperity of all lands. This is indicative of perfection.  AB01704
