There is no state like the state of prayer.  ABU3755

Prayer confers spirituality upon the heart.   ABU3462

Now is the hour for beseeching and supplicating Him.  AB07901

He meant that a prayer-like attitude of the heart is essential.   ABU3093

When I pray I turn my thoughts and face to the Blessed Perfection.   ABU3598

Prayer without ablution is impossible, and supplication without humility is unacceptable  AB01349

Verily God createth all things through their means, and He causeth all means to flow through their channels. When thou prayest to God for any need, look unto its means and seek to attract it through its means, for God will grant thee this, albeit through its means. Look not unto the means nor the cause, but rather unto the Causer of causes, Who operateth not through means but Who causeth the means to operate through their channels. For if thou shouldst seclude thyself in a place and pray to God for that which thou desirest - God indeed knoweth thy desire and is able to fulfill it for thee by inspiring in the heart of a servant to come unto thee and grant thy request. But God hath not made this the measure for His servants.  BB00003

"thou must supplicate unto God, pray to and commune with Him at midnight"  AB06528

The most beautiful pentagram comprises: Love, work, prayer, peace and joy   ABU3621

I do not wish to offer prayer lest it be confused with what the divines practice.   BH09409

The epitome of all worship is the worship of the attributes of Christ, not his personality.  ABU1729

"In the middle of nights pray and supplicate to God with such fervor and zeal that I may hear thy calls."  ABU1231

I supplicate Thee during my prayer and devotions with a wandering heart and flowing tears and a throbbing breast  AB06006

When you pray you must not think of your aching body, nor of the birds outside the window, nor of the cracks in the wall!   ABU3378

At the time of prayer one must hold in one's mind some object. Then he must turn his face and direct his mind to this picture.  ABU1052

During the time of prayer His Holiness Baha'u'llah must be singly and alone the center towards whom all the faces are turned.  AB01787

If we wish to pray we must have some object upon which to concentrate. If we turn to God we must direct our hearts to a certain center.  ABU1729

supplication and prayer is the Water of Life. It is the cause of the vivification of existence and brings glad tidings and joy to the soul.  AB00308

Recite this prayer with utmost humility and supplication at the Threshold of the King of the Kingdom of Glory, and seek confirmation.  AB02984


Man is eternally in a state of communion and prayer with the source of all-good. The highest and most elevating state is the state of prayer. Prayer is communion with God.  ABU1205

He told Florence that the turning toward God in thought, and a prayer-like appeal from the heart, is prayer, and is heard of God. Words are not necessary, the heart is enough.   ABU3093

Prayer is both attitude and word; it depends upon the soul-condition. It is like a song; both words and music make the song. Sometimes the melody will move us, sometimes the words.  ABU3528

And while washing his face, let him say: I have turned my face unto Thee, O my Lord! Illumine it with the light of Thy countenance. Protect it, then, from turning to any one but Thee.  BH03447

Recite the Obligatory Prayer and supplications as much as thou art able, so that day by day thou mayest attain to increased firmness and steadfastness and find greater joy and gladness.  AB12011


However, firstly, one should perform it whenever one finds in oneself a state of devotion and humility; secondly, in the morning, at noon, and in the evening; and thirdly, from noon to noon.   BH00401

However, verbal repetition of prayer does not suffice. One must live in a perennial attitude of prayer. When man is spiritually free, his mind becomes the altar and his heart the sanctuary of prayer.  ABU1900

Congregational prayer has no spiritual attraction. Much hypocrisy enters into it. But if one closes the door of one's room and prays, it creates a different state. Praying individually gives much spirituality to a person.   ABU2346

Is it necessary to arise to say the midnight prayer, or the prayer of the Dawn, or to wash the hands and face before using these? No, the ablution is only for the obligatory daily prayer which should be said three times a day.  ABU3612

It is incumbent upon every servant to pray and supplicate God, and to beg for and implore His assistance! This is the attitude of a true worshipper (devotee) and thy Lord is able to perform whatsoever He wishes through His excellent wisdom  AB11211


My God, my God! My soul is a sacrifice for Thy remembrance, and for Thy tender care a sacrifice. I testify that through Thee the Sun of bounty hath shone upon the world and the hearts of the nations have been illumined with the light of recognition. I beseech Thee...   BH05872

These obligatory prayers are entirely personal between the individual and God. There is also the form of prayer to which the name "Supplication" has been given, in the translations which may certainly be used in public. That is, if you should desire to ask God anything, you may certainly do so in an assembly of believers.  ABU2604

Its efficacy is conditioned upon the freedom of the heart from extraneous suggestions and mundane thoughts. The worshipper must pray with a detached spirit, unconditional surrender of the will, concentrated attention and a magnetic spiritual passion. His innermost being must be stirred with the ethereal breezes of sanctification.  ABU1205

Reveal then Thyself, O Lord! by Thy merciful Utterance and the mystery of Thy Divine Being, that the holy ecstasy of prayer may fill our souls -- a prayer that shall rise above words and letters and transcend the murmur of syllables and sounds -- that all things may be merged into nothingness before the revelation of Thy Splendour.   AB06211

Prayer is the means of connection between God and creation, and the cause of the heart's attraction and attachment. Never does the grace from on high reach that which is below without the means of attachment and connection. Therefore must the servant supplicate and beseech at the threshold of the One, and offer prayer and devotion.  AB03370

"The wisdom of this is that this prayer constitutes a link between the servant and His Lord. In this state of communion man turneth with all his heart and soul to God, seeketh His companionship and showeth Him all his love. The lover has no greater joy than to commune with the Beloved, and the seeker can receive no greater gift than to associate with the One sought by all."  AB01907

When one feels spiritually uplifted and attracted, one can say the Long Obligatory Prayer, and even that is not so lengthy. What a wonderful state comes over a person. Congregational prayer has no spiritual attraction. Much hypocrisy enters into it. But if one closes the door of one's room and prays, it creates a different state. Praying individually gives much spirituality to a person.   ABU2346



Thou didst question the necessity for prayer, and the wisdom that might lie behind it. What reason could there be, thou didst ask, considering that God hath perfected His creation, ordering all matters in the best way possible, assigning unto every thing its due measure, and appointing for it, with consummate exactitude and precision, its proper station --what reason could there be to make supplication and entreaty, to pray for needs to be fulfilled, and to beg for succour and assistance? Know thou that it belongeth to the weak to make entreaty to the Source of strength, and that it becometh the petitioner of heavenly grace humbly to supplicate to Him Who is the All-Glorious, the Lord of grace abounding. Whensoever the worshipper communeth with his Lord, turneth wholly unto Him, and supplicateth some portion of His boundless grace, then this very act of supplication is a light unto his heart, a collyrium unto his eye, a source of life unto his soul, and a cause of exaltation unto his being. Observe then how, when thou dost thyself commune with God and recitest "Thy Name is my healing", thy heart is thrilled, thy soul transported with the rapture of the love of God, and thy spirit drawn towards His heavenly Kingdom. Through these sensations, moreover, thy receptive capacity is increased: and the more capacious the container, the more copious its contents; the more vehement one's thirst, the sweeter in one's palate the outpouring bounty of the cloud. This is the mystery of supplication; this is the wisdom of praying for the fulfilment of one's needs. AB01990



When the blessed words of the opening takbir flow from one's tongue, one must see oneself as separate from all created things and as evanescent in God's Will and Purpose, to such extent that one seeth naught in existence save Him - this is the station of them that are nigh unto God and the sincere ones. And if anyone attaineth unto such prayer, he is recorded before God and the Concourse on High as one of the people of prayer.  BH11831

Man may say, "I can pray to God whenever I wish, when the feelings of my heart are drawn to God; when I am in the wilderness, when I am in the city, or wherever I may be. Why should I go where others are gathered upon a special day, at a certain hour, to unite my prayers with theirs when I may not be in a frame of mind for praying?" To think in this way is useless imagination for where many are gathered together their force is greater.   ABU0559

O friends of God! Say: Do not multiply your devotions by day and by night, nor that which ye recite. For if ye refine your deeds, it will draw you nearer unto God, your Lord. This is of God's grace and mercy, that ye may be thankful. And God sets forth parables unto you that ye may understand. If ye grow weary reciting a verse from the Book of God an hundred times when ye read it, then reduce it by ten and by ten until there remain but nineteen.  BB00004

If one friend feels love for another he will wish to say so. Though he knows that the first is aware that he loves him, he will still wish to say so. If there is anyone that you love do you not seek an opportunity to speak with him, to speak lovingly with him, to bring him gifts, to write him letters? If you do not feel such a desire it would be that you did not love your friend. God knows the wishes of all hearts. But the impulse to pray is a natural one springing from man's love to God.  ABU1481

There is a pleasure in offering prayers that transcends all other pleasures, and there is a sweetness in chanting and singing the verses of God which is the greatest desire of all the believers, men and women alike. While reciting the Obligatory Prayer, one converses intimately and shares secrets with the true Beloved. No pleasure is greater than this, if one proceeds with a detached soul, with tears overflowing, with a trusting heart and an eager spirit. Every joy is earthly save this one, the sweetness of which is divine.  AB11899

What is prayer? It is 'conversation with God.' While man prays he sees himself in the Presence of God. If he concentrates his attention he will surely at the time of Prayer realize that he is 'conversing with God.' Often in the evenings I do not sleep and the thoughts of the world weigh heavily on my mind. I toss myself uneasily in my bed. Then in the darkness of the night I get up and pray - 'converse with God.' It is most sweet and uplifting! Prayer and supplication are so effective as to inspire one's heart for the whole day with high ideals and supreme serenity and calmness. One's heart must be sensitive to the music of Prayer. He must feel the effect of Prayer. He must not be like an organ from which streams forth most soft notes but having no sensation in itself.   ABU0632

In the station of prayer, it is necessary to know five stations: the description, the described, then the description, that by which description occurs, and that to which description tends. These are five gates, the first of which cannot be known except through the last. In the terminology of the people of definition, these are the station of the Point, the soft Alif, then the extended one, then the letters, then the Word, which is the station of the ranks of the divine unity of the believers, as explained by the Shaykh, may God's mercy be upon him, in the commentary on the Benefits. It behooves the supplicant to behold none but the countenance of his Lord at the time of prayer, for if he finds himself or his desire while turning to his Lord, he has associated partners with his Master and has not truly turned in the station of prayer. This is the doctrine of the Christians, about whom God has said regarding their belief: "The Christians say: He is the third of three," etc. Therefore, be conscious of God and flee unto His presence from the mention of anything other than His Essence in the station of His worship. This is difficult for the sincere ones except for whom God wills, for He is the Generous, the Bestower. For this reason, God does not accept the prayers of most supplicants, nor are they answered, because they call upon what they do not know. When anyone calls upon God in this way, God answers immediately, for turning to God in true unity is greater than what the servant asks of his Lord. Prayer in that station is itself the answer, and therefore God has said: "Call upon Me; I will answer you." There is no doubt that God's promise is fulfilled. When you have understood the laws of prayer, then be certain that everything in its rank glorifies its Lord, as the Qur'an has pronounced: "There is nothing that doth not celebrate His praise." BB00061

And from Abu Basir who said: I said to Abu Ja'far, peace be upon him, 'When I recite the Qur'an and raise my voice with it, Satan comes to me.' He said: 'Do you think I would destroy people with this? O Abu Muhammad, recite in a manner between the two manners of recitation. Let your household hear you, and modulate your voice with the Qur'an, for verily God, the Mighty and Glorious, loves the beautiful voice when it is modulated with proper modulation.'  BB00037
