
This is the great day of God. This is the day of universal peace, of universal brotherhood, of a universal language and of the union of all religions. This is the day wherein the prophecies of the Holy Books of every tongue have been or are being fulfilled. This is the cycle of Baha'o'llah.  ABU2536

The cycle of the Greatest Name is bounty upon bounty and joy upon joy  AB08747

Question: You have stated that we are living in a universal cycle, the first Manifestation of which was Adam and the universal Manifestation of which is Baha'u'llah. Does this imply that other universal cycles preceded this one and that all traces of them have been effaced -- cycles in which the ultimate purpose was the divine spiritualization of man just as it is the creative intention in this one?  Answer: ...Briefly, there were many universal cycles preceding this one in which we are living. They were consummated, completed and their traces obliterated. The divine and creative purpose in them was the evolution of spiritual man, just as it is in this cycle. The circle of existence is the same circle; it returns. The tree of life has ever borne the same heavenly fruit. ABU0403

Most blessed are you because you are living in the Cycle of His Highness the Desired One! This Cycle is the Cycle of the Blessed Perfection. Each one of the prophets had a Dispensation. Thus we have the Dispensation of Moses, the Cycle of Christ, the epiphany of Mohamad. But this Cycle is the Cycle of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1174

O people! Another cycle hath come and the All-Merciful hath appeared with great sovereignty.   BH03717

Now this age is the divine age and this century the century of the All-Merciful.  AB06865

This is the century of the Sun of Truth and the cycle of the Ancient of Days. Hearts are the descent of divine inspiration and spirits are confirmed by reason and consciousness. In this Most Great Cycle, the suckling child has the station of a noble person, and newborn children are wise, seeing and praiseworthy. For the Lord God has manifested Himself through His attribute of the All-Merciful and educates humanity with utmost love. Neither sword nor arrow exists, nor blade nor instrument of iron. The weapons of the divine friends are peace and reconciliation, and their world-conquering sword is utterance, expression and speech. AB07442

This connection and attachment and unity and harmony are among the special characteristics of this Most Great Cycle   AB06937

In this Most Great Cycle, when the dawn of contingent being hath been illumined by the lights of the Countenance of the All-Merciful  AB04814

In this great Cycle and wonderful Dispensation... this great Cycle is of long duration, this great Age is vast, continuous and eternal  AB10799

In this Most Great Cycle and century of the Sovereign King of Eternity, souls are confirmed and assisted by the hosts of the Abha Kingdom   AB01715

Therefore, praise God for that He honored thee with presence in this great century and new cycle and caused thee to attain this new bounty.  AB08356

As this century is the century of light and the Cycle of the revelation of Mysteries undoubtedly these glorious aims will be fully established  ABU3018

This age is a different age and its requirements are different requirements. The laws of the previous age do not suffice for this great century.  ABU3283


Therefore, blessed is the state of those souls who gained the greatest share from this most mighty Dispensation and found the greatest elixir from this most perfect gift  AB05835

in this most mighty Dispensation the signs of divine unity may be embodied and the reality of detachment may be realized, for such heavenly bounty is befitting this luminous cycle  AB09422

All these outpourings are from the grace and bounty of the Sovereign of existence, which in this new age and wondrous century have been bestowed upon the loved ones of the All-Merciful.  AB06814

This is the age of the Blessed Perfection and this is the time of the Greatest Name! This is the century of the Manifestation, the age of the Sun of all horizons and the beautiful springtime of the Eternal One!  AB02719

Thus this blessed Cycle falls in the seventh rank - it is the mighty Cycle, the new resurrection, the Greater Day of Judgment, the Abha Paradise, and the planting ground of the Tree of Life. Therefore, in reality it has no end or termination.  AB04858

Great is this cycle and its Lord is the Manifest Beauty. Its heaven is the Law of sanctification, pouring down upon the field of both noble and base. Its sun is the Reality of the Divine Essence - all Its Manifestations in other cycles occupied the station of servitude.  AB01336

In this Most Great Century and Most Noble Cycle, when subtle and pure realities have been illumined by the shining rays from the Sun of Truth, and when the temples of unity have been raised up in the arena of existence through this perfect bounty and all-encompassing grace  AB03770

For a century spans one hundred years, so in this glorious age of the Majestic Lord, day by day the Divine Cause rises higher and more exalted, more sublime and unreachable. The manifestation of the signs of beauty and glory and the appearance of the tokens of might and greatness of the peerless Lord continue.   AB02646

In this Most Great Cycle wherein the weakest of souls, through the power of divine bestowal, are adorned with the robe of "He strengtheneth whom He willeth with His strength" and wherein the servants of the Most Glorious Threshold are invested with the robe of "Thou givest sovereignty to whom Thou willest" and the garment of "He singles out for His mercy whomsoever He pleaseth"   AB04771

Every Manifestation is the Adam of His time. (Adam means the type man, the perfect man.) There were one hundred thousand Adams before the Adam of biblical records each being the Manifestation of His own time or cycle. This cycle in which we are living and which has come to its full expression today having ended thus, is the long Adamic cycle, being five hundred thousand years. Five hundred thousand years ago a Great Manifestation came and founded it.   ABU3763

Briefly, our claim is that a universal cycle in the world of existence comprises a vast span of time and countless ages and epochs. In such a cycle the Manifestations of God shine forth in the visible realm until a universal and supreme Manifestation makes the world the focal centre of divine splendours and, through His revelation, brings it to the stage of maturity. The duration of the cycle He ushers in is very long indeed. Other Manifestations will arise in the course of that cycle under His shadow and will renew, according to the needs of the time, certain laws pertaining to material affairs and transactions, but they will remain under His shadow. We are in the cycle which began with Adam and whose universal Manifestation is Baha'u'llah.   AB00206

If we investigate the foundations of the divine religions, we find them to be one, absolutely changeless and never subject to transformation. For example, each of the divine religions contains two kinds of laws or ordinances. One division concerns the world of morality and ethical institutions. These are the essential ordinances. They instill and awaken the knowledge and love of God, love for humanity, the virtues of the world of mankind, the attributes of the divine Kingdom, rebirth and resurrection from the kingdom of nature. These constitute one kind of divine law which is common to all and never subject to change. From the dawn of the Adamic cycle to the present day this fundamental law of God has continued changeless. This is the foundation of divine religion. ABU0009

He [Baha'u'llah] is the Founder also of the new long cycle of 500,000 years when another great Manifestation will come. In the meantime throughout this coming long cycle of 500,000 years there will be cycles like that of Moses, Jesus, etc., only on a higher scale, as this is the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth. None will be as great as Baha'u'llah until 500,000 years is accomplished.  'Abdu'l-Baha says that within the last 500,000 years there have been seven universal Manifestations, the last three of whom were Melchizedek, Jesus Christ, and Baha'u'llah.  ABU3763

From the cycle of Adam until today, which spans twelve thousand two hundred and ten solar years, in every Dispensation He has appeared with a different name. In each Dispensation, previous Manifestations have been denied and judged as being other than truth. He has caused all to believe in His novel manifestation and to await His subsequent appearance. He is the First and the Last, the Manifest and the Hidden. He was Muhammad, the Messenger of God, in the past, and today He is the Qa'im of the Family of Muhammad, peace be upon Him, Whose manifestation is identical to the manifestation of the Messenger of God in relation to the previous Manifestation. He effaces what He willeth and confirms what He pleaseth.  BB00242
