
I have come to visit the peace societies of America because the fundamental principles of our Cause are universal peace and the promotion of the basic doctrine of the oneness and truth of all the divine religions. Differences between religions are due to misunderstanding and imitation. If these imitations were to be eliminated, all religions would be united. ABU3126

The Baha'i Jews in Hamadan have written a treatise on the truth of Muhammad and sent it to the Christians of America.   ABU1921

Consider with what knowledge His holiness Baha'u'llah hath favored the Baha'is, that if they are given the whole world they will not deny Christ.  ABU3056

From the beginning of Christianity and Islam up to the present day, no one has spoken thus, proving the validity of Christ and Muhammad in a Jewish temple and in a manner to which no one took exception.   ABU2826

Had ye believed in Moses, ye would also believe in me  ABU3386

The various parties of the world each cling to certain proofs and evidences. For example, the followers of the Gospel hold fast to a few pages, and by these limited pages consider themselves superior to and better than all other peoples. And before that, the Torah, which was specific to Moses, consisted of a few books. They have gathered various sayings of the Prophets like Isaiah, Ezekiel, Solomon, David, Jeremiah, Zechariah and others into one volume, though most parts of it are historical accounts written after Moses. Then came the decree of the Furqan (Qur'an), which in truth distinguishes between right and wrong. Those were the days of the Seal of the Prophets, His was the epoch and His the time. Besides what has been mentioned, none possessed anything else. And now, many equivalents to all these have been revealed and are available and evident. BH00107

Likewise every one of the world-religions has been the cause of progress and advancement in its own time  ABU2675

At the time of Mohammed, no one believed in Christ, so Christ was first preached by Mohammed. Then they were given the teachings of Mohammed.  ABU1002

Christ gave new life and effect to the meanings of the ancient law.  ABU3572

The sacred books of all nations speak of the possibility of the new birth of man.  ABU2406

The Baha'i message is a call to religious unity and not an invitation to a new religion, not a new path to immortality, God forbid! It is the ancient path cleared of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of strife and misunderstanding and is again made a clear path to the sincere seeker, that he may enter therein in assurance, and find that the Word of God is one Word, though the Speakers were many.  ABU2950

The Baha'i Faith encompasses the principles of all religions, for when one hundred comes, ninety is also with it.   ABU3566

Observe how Christ and Muhammad sowed a seed that until now yields fruit, while all other farmers ultimately failed and lost.   AB03151

The truth of the Torah and Gospel and the greatness and grandeur of the Divine Prophets are repeatedly mentioned in the Qur'an.   ABU1743

The real teaching of Buddha is the same as the teaching of Jesus Christ. The teachings of all the Prophets are the same in character.  ABU1522

By God, the Torah hath testified to Him to Whom even the pebbles have borne witness, and the Gospel crieth out unto the Glorious Lord, and the Qur'an proclaimeth the advent of the All-Merciful, and the Bayan circleth round the Throne. Yet the people remain wrapped in a thick veil.  BH07791


O people! He hath come with that wherewith came 'Ali [the Bab], then Muhammad, then the Spirit [Jesus], then He Who conversed with God [Moses], and the Friend of God [Abraham]   BH02459

Baha'u'llah did not abrogate the teachings of Christ, but rather confirmed and renewed them, expanded and perfected them, and explained and clarified them.   AB01794

The traces of truth cannot be eliminated. Even if all who dwell on earth were to unite and wish to obliterate the divine traces, they would be powerless to do so.   ABU2587

the reality of Christ's appearance in the Mosaic Dispensation was one of the divine mysteries that later became revealed and manifest through the appearance of Christ.  AB11056

This is why Moses called the Israelite people to the ancient God of their fathers and the God of Abraham, and Christ said "I have not come to destroy but to fulfill."   ABU1075

The religion of Jamshid was one of truthfulness, friendship, good nature and goodness. For a brief time that religion held sway upon the earth, but after a short while it was forgotten. Beseech thou God that thou mayest adopt a religion that is heart-appealing and sweet, which is the essence of the manifest Faith.  AB09597

Buddha too was one of the Prophets, but His teachings have been distorted and altered. What the Buddhists now possess is contrary to the original foundation of Buddha's Law.  AB00152

This Cause does not oppose the foundation of Christ, but rather it is the Divine Spirit that is also at work and penetrating hearts outside the churches and Christian nations.  ABU2554

From whatever dawning point it may appear they turn toward it. At one time, it appeared from the dawning point of Moses, then from that of Jesus and again from that of Muhammad.   ABU2143


Moses served human unity, Christ established the unity of the human world, Muhammad proclaimed human unity, the Gospel and Torah and Quran established the foundation of human unity.  ABU1744


In most of these places I spoke to them about the original foundations of the divine religions and I explained to them the proofs of the validity of the divine prophets and of the holy Manifestations.   ABU1796


In all the heavenly Books, the command to love and unity hath been given  BH02395

the Gospel and Torah and Quran established the foundation of human unity.  ABU1744


Praise be to God Who has shone forth with the Sun of Will upon the Kingdom of meanings and utterance, whereupon appeared the Torah, the Gospel, the Qur'an and other Books, and through them revealed the laws of religions. Glory be to Him Who hath sent down the verses and made them insights for those who turn to Him, lamps for those who draw nigh, and cords of guidance amidst humanity, that whosoever desires to draw near to the Most Sublime Horizon and the Supreme Summit may grasp them. BH02311


This is a Book which the All-Merciful hath sent down from the Kingdom of Utterance, confirming the Torah and the Gospel and the Qur'an   BH05489

God hath taught thee knowledge of the Book from the Furqan, the Gospel, the Torah, the Psalms, and what lieth beyond them of the Scrolls.  BB00002


The Baha'i foundation is one with the foundation of the Torah and Gospel - it has been renewed. Baha'is must be knowledgeable about the Torah and Gospel.   AB06723

The Heavenly Books, the Bible, the Qur'an, and the other Holy Writings have been given by God as guides into the paths of Divine virtue, love, justice and peace.  ABU0706

The divine Books have each been a herald, summoning the people to the Truth, and have been specifically sent down from the heaven of the Divine Will for guidance.   BH01515

Do not forget the tradition "All that is in the Torah, Gospel and Psalms is in the Qur'an, and all that is in the Opening Chapter is in the Bismillah, and all that is in the Bismillah is in the letter B."   AB05221

This divine Holy Book is celestial revelation. The Torah brings salvation and the glorious Gospel contains the mysteries of the Kingdom and lights of the Divine Realm. It is divine bounty and signs of heavenly guidance.   AB06441


This golden thread of promise concerning the Messianic Millennium is running through the Bible and it was so destined that God in its own good time will cause its appearance. Not even a single word will be left meaningless or unfulfilled.   ABU2955


And in another instance, the proof of Moses was the Torah, and the evidence that remained of Christ was and is the leaves of the Gospel, and the enduring testimony of the Seal of the Prophets was the Book of the Furqan, which distinguished between truth and falsehood.  BH03589

The Books have been sealed by the Most Great Book wherein is detailed the knowledge of what hath been and what shall be...The preamble of this Book hath been adorned with that which was foretold in the Psalms, the Qur'an, the Gospel and what was revealed in the Holy Books  BH02613


Nevertheless, Holy Writ is authoritative, and with it no history of the world can compare, for experience hath shown that after investigation of the facts and a thorough study of ancient records and corroborative evidence, all have referred back to the Holy Scriptures. AB00263


The character of divine sovereignty has no change or transformation, but the organization and administration change continually. This is why Jesus Christ said: "I came not to destroy the law, but to fulfil it."  ABU2402


Man must be just. After these statements no one can deny the greatness of Christ...The philosophers are also teachers but all they could do was to teach themselves and a few other souls. But the prophets of God taught the whole world.  ABU0089

Because of this the teachings of Moses were confined to Palestine. The cause of Jesus Christ was spread over some parts of Europe, Asia and Africa, and the cause of Mohammed over some parts of Europe, Asia and Africa; none were universal.  ABU0838

thou hast witnessed the great signs of the greatest glad-tidings which have been revealed in the Gospel, Bible and the Psalms; and wert confirmed that verily those glad-tidings have allusions to the appearance of the Kingdom of God during this time  AB06514

They speak His praise from pulpits and mosques, acknowledging His greatness and His Manifestation. Yet when the Day of God appeared and the lights of His countenance shone forth from the horizon of His Will, all remained veiled save whom God wished.  BH01751

"For instance, the New Testament speaks of compassion, kindness, forgiveness and clemency. These same teachings exist in the Faith of Baha'u'llah. The Qur'an speaks of justice and punishment, and these same concepts are preserved in the Cause of Baha'u'llah."  ABU1991


We are the lovers of light. When we see the light we worship it, however lowly the source from which it comes; whether its source be Israelite, or Arabic, or Persian, or Indian matters not to us. We love not the lamp, but the light. It is for the light that we search.  ABU0524


He does not abrogate that which has been deemed essential in the Former Faiths. Like unto the nuggets of gold He takes them out of the heaps of superstitions and dogmas, polishes and cleanses them, gives a new luster and brilliancy and displays them before the eyes of the public.   ABU0969


As for other religions, in the texts of Baha'u'llah and writings of the friends, such as the book of Mirza Abu'l-Fadl, there are explicit mentions of Zoroaster, Buddha, Brahma and Confucius. Similarly in my letters, the original foundations of Zoroaster and Buddha were very compatible but were later altered and changed. It seems you have not seen these tablets and books where this is written. Obtain the published book of Mirza Abu'l-Fadl - it will suffice and satisfy you that the teachings of Baha'u'llah are universal teachings, confirmed by the penetration of the Word of God, the breaths of the Holy Spirit and heavenly power. At most you have seen the published writings of Baha'u'llah - the published tablets are very small compared to the unpublished tablets. The foundation of divine religions is one - that foundation will become universal through the power of Baha'u'llah. In the East, various teachings were previously spread that appeared universal, but as they were not confirmed by divine power, their flame was quickly extinguished. AB00801

The Jews admit that Jesus appeared in the world and taught heavenly principles. If Christ had not appeared after Moses the mention of Moses would have been lost. The foundation of Jesus and the foundation of Moses were the same. The foundation of Baha'o'llah is likewise the same as Moses and Jesus.  ABU0026

The divine Prophets have revealed and founded religion. They have laid down certain laws and heavenly principles for the guidance of mankind. They have taught and promulgated the knowledge of God, established praiseworthy ethical ideals and inculcated the highest standards of virtues in the human world.  ABU0161

He hath created all contingent beings through His pre-existent knowledge of what was and what shall be, and taught them the ways of righteousness by sending unto them the Messengers of the Cause with a mighty revealed Book wherein He ordained holy laws and determined the destinies of all who dwell in the heavens and on earth according to a fixed measure. Among them was Moses, whom He sent with the truth, with nine clear signs, to herald unto the people a station of glorious dignity.... And among them was Jesus, whom God strengthened with the Spirit and sent with the truth.... His days were fulfilled until Muhammad, the Messenger of God, came with beloved signs.... His days were fulfilled until 'Ali before Muhammad [the Bab] came, whereupon all who were on earth arose and disputed with him without right, and warred against him such that they visited upon him and his companions that which they could not bear to hear.  BH01342

It is proven with brilliant evidence that God chose the Prophets as a mercy to the worlds, not as a punishment to humanity. All of them called to guidance and held fast to the sure handle until they rescued the degraded nations from the depths of ignorance and blindness to the heights of virtue and wisdom.   ABU0168


The people of Islam were taught to realize how Jesus came from God and was born of the Spirit, and that He must be glorified of all men. Moses was a prophet of God, and revealed in His day and for the people to whom He was sent, the Book of God. Muhammad recognized the sublime grandeur of Christ and the greatness of Moses and the prophets.  ABU0072


These great and blessed souls had for their aim the same principle. Their purpose was one, their law was one, their teaching was one. His Holiness Zoroaster was a prophet, precisely according to the Messianic example. There was no difference whatsoever between the spirit of the teachings which Zoroaster gave and those which His Holiness the Christ gave.  ABU0171


In brief, the prophethood of Zoroaster is as clear and manifest as the sun. It is strange that they accept the prophethood of Moses yet deny Zoroaster. Since Zoroaster is not explicitly mentioned by name in the Qur'an, the followers of the Furqan denied and objected to Him, even though some prophets are mentioned by name in the Qur'an while most are mentioned by their attributes.  ABU0202

In numerous passages in the divine Tablets, blessed mention is made of Zoroaster with utmost praise, for that blessed being was one of the Manifestations of the Divine Unity and became the cause of guidance for a great nation. Whoever studies the teachings and counsels of that noble One will clearly see that those teachings are heavenly and those counsels are the words of a divine being. And as long as the Parsees acted according to the counsels and admonitions of that noble One, they were cherished in both worlds, but when they became deprived of that conduct and behavior, that eternal glory was transformed. In brief, the purpose is that the exalted station of that noble One has become clear and evident in this Revelation.  AB01972

Follow ye all that which ye attribute to the Truth, for it hath been fulfilled through the Word of God. Such was the beginning of the Cause - how then do ye not fear? There is no way for you to believe in the Qur'an except that ye believe in the Bayan, and it is the same whether ye believe or believe not. Would any among you be content to say at this time I follow the religion of Jesus? If not, then how can ye be content to follow that which ye now follow? That which Jesus - peace be upon Him - revealed of religion was from God; this became the religion of Muhammad in His Manifestation, and this became the religion of your Qa'im in His Manifestation.  BB00094


