The twelve stars around her head represent the twelve Imams.  ABU2650

Now, if the second Caliph had obeyed him who was well-grounded in knowledge and the Interpreter of the Book, that is, 'Ali, and had not uttered Sufficient unto us is the Book of God, none of this harm and trouble would have transpired, nor would this destruction and disgrace have appeared. And nor would thirty thousand divines have arisen to contend and quarrel with him who was well-grounded in knowledge--for each one of Muhammad's companions viewed himself as an independent divine and derived his understanding of the religious commandments, observances and beliefs directly from the holy verses and traditions. And the one that, amidst all this, remained isolated and disregarded was 'Ali!  AB00005

The Imamate is the reins of religion, the organization of Muslims, the welfare of the world, and the honor of believers. The Imamate is the growing foundation of Islam and its lofty branch. Through the Imam comes the perfection of prayer, charity, fasting, pilgrimage, jihad, the distribution of spoils and alms, the implementation of legal punishments and ordinances, and the protection of borders.  BB00010

And those who are witnesses after Him - these are the Imams who guide with truth and all return unto Him.   BB00288

These words made all the sanctified Imams captives and prisoners, wronged by and subjugated to every tyrant.  AB00005

The condemnation of God be upon him who regards me either as a representative of the Imam or the gate thereof.  BBU0012

I inform you to sanctify your Imams from the description of contingent things and the attributes of created things.   BB00461

and the acknowledgment of what Thou hast ordained regarding the authority of the Imams after him and the Pillars of the House after them   BB00404

Muhammad is alive. He is the Self-Subsisting over 'Ali. He is the Wisdom of Fatimih. He is the Justice of Hasan. He is the Holiness of Husayn.   BB00530

Prayer praising and seeking blessings for 'Ali ibn al-Husayn, the fourth Imam, including references to "the Imams who came before him and after him"   BB00453

I beseech Thee...by the Imams who guide aright, who call unto God from the beginning of the worlds of existence to the ultimate degrees of witness...  BB00514

And cause his heart to be well-pleased with Thee, his spirit with Thy Prophet, his soul with his chosen forefathers and then with the Imams after him, the pure ones   BB00449

The Imams (upon them be the peace of God) were created by His Word, and received their portion and share from the ocean of His grace and bounty before creation itself.   BH10009

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him, and that those who are witnesses after Muhammad, these are, after the Primal Point, twelve stars - all are assured of them.  BB00004

Thou hast explained its decree in the first word as the Imams of justice, the companions of Thy Messenger Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets - Thy blessings be upon them all.  BB00102

We drink not from the outward cups except as those who affirm that they who were witnesses after Muhammad - these are the Imams of Truth, and these are they who draw proof from God.  BB00004

These indicated ranks are the manifestations of the Imams of Justice in the unseen realm, and when the lights descend to the realm of witnessing, they are sacred temples in this world.  BB00061

These very words became afterwards the cause of his succession to the Caliphate because the word 'with us' included him also. Many proofs and arguments based on these words have been advanced.  ABU2564

And as for the Qur'anic dispensation after Imam Hasan 'Askari (peace be upon him), those souls who followed the Messenger (peace be upon him) and walked the path of the pure Imams were upon the truth.   AB02537

"And upon her head a crown of twelve stars," means that that law was upheld by twelve Imams after the member of the Tribes and Apostles; for: after the departure of the Apostle, Mohammad, the Imams were twelve.   AB01034

O my God and God of my forefathers: Muhammad, Ali, Fatima, Hasan, Husayn, Ali, Muhammad, Ja'far, Musa, Ali, Muhammad, Ali, Hasan and the Proof, the Qa'im - God's blessings be upon them and upon their cherubic followers.  BB00320

I bear witness to Muhammad and Ali and Fatima and Hasan and Husayn and Ali and Muhammad and Ja'far and Musa and Ali and Muhammad and Ali and Hasan and Muhammad, the Master of the Command and the Successor, peace be upon them  BB00493

Thereupon, those present praised 'Ali and acknowledged his station. Even 'Umar exclaimed: O 'Ali, blessed art thou, verily thou art my lord and the lord of all believers, both men and women. However, later they forgot all this.  AB08296

And as to 'the Spirit' mentioned in His words 'The angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter' - this referreth to the Qa'im (the Promised One), while by 'the angels' are meant the Imams.  BB00068

And I bear witness that Ali and [the other] successors of the Messenger and proofs of God over all that is in the heavens and earth, all of them together, they are honored servants who speak not before Him and act by His command.  BB00677

Al-Rida indicated: "Whoever says 'There is no god but God,' Paradise becomes obligatory for them, with its condition which is Unity, and its conditions which is Prophethood, and I am among its conditions which is the Guardianship."   BB00344

For were he to know that there existed in Thy knowledge even an atom that did not acknowledge Thy oneness, and his prophethood, and the authority of the Imams after him, and the pillars of the House from him, his heart would not rest   BB00386

O Husayn! Consider the eagerness with which certain peoples and nations have anticipated the return of Imam-Husayn, whose coming, after the appearance of the Qa'im, hath been prophesied, in days past, by the chosen ones of God, exalted be His glory.  BH11780

And I bear witness to the twelve successors of Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, as twelve months in the Book of God from the day He created the heavens and the earth, whom God hath made, for the glory of His Beloved, the station of His Self   BB00216

I bear witness before God and those with Him that I am content with Ali, Fatima, Hussein, Hassan, Ali ibn Hussein, Muhammad ibn Ali, Jafar ibn Muhammad, Musa ibn Jafar, Ali ibn Musa, Muhammad ibn Ali, Ali ibn Muhammad, Hassan ibn Ali, and Muhammad ibn Hassan as Imams  BB00617

I beseech Thee, O my God, at this moment to send Thy blessings upon Thy Proof, the son of Thy Proof, Muhammad ibn 'Ali, the mine of Thy revelation, the wellspring of Thy glory, the tongue of Thy oneness, the repositories of the command of the kingdom of Thy sanctity...   BB00450

Preserve our beings from seeking protection from any save the Guardians of Thy Cause, the Custodians of Thy Mystery, the Interpreters of Thy Revelation, and the Pillars of Thy Unity-the Imams of Religion and the Guides of the people of certitude, Thy blessings be upon them all.  BB00521

As for the transmitted tradition that there are twelve Imams from His Holiness the Commander [Ali] to Muhammad ibn Hasan, and the second tradition that there are twelve Imams from the lineage of His Holiness Ali and Her Holiness Fatima - there is contradiction between these two traditions.  AB04093

"These are the followers of the learned who associate with the people of this world and the transgressors through obedience to God, blessed and exalted be He, and to His friends, practicing dissimulation in their religion and fear of their enemy. Their spirits are attached to the highest realm."  BB00415

Regarding what you wrote about revelation, the holy Imams were the dawning-places of inspiration and the manifestations of the grace of the All-Merciful. Revelation was specific to the Messenger of God, therefore we do not call the words of the holy Imams the Word of God, rather we consider them divine inspiration.  AB11351

Did not God and His Prophet take from you a covenant regarding the successorship of His friend in many places of the earth, with truth upon truth? If ye believed in God, besides Whom there is no god, what aileth you, how do ye judge for yourselves other than what God revealed in His Book of truth aforetime preserved?  BB00002

I bear witness that after their slaying, they are like unto what they were before - living in Thy presence, working by Thy command and ruling by Thy decree. Neither limitation nor changing years affect them. Therefore, O God, bestow Thy peace upon them as they deserve, and punish their enemies, O God, according to their deeds.  BB00025

Know thou with certainty that the shadow of the lower chain in relation to the higher chain is the essence of poison and the most intense fire, for the punishment of one who denies the Successor is the punishment of one who denies both the Prophet and the Successor. Apply this principle from the highest pearl to the lowest particle.  BB00006

And these seven have manifestations in the station of the revelation of the Essence, Attributes, Deeds and Worship, which yield from the Word twenty-eight stations, corresponding to the letters of existence through which all being, both unseen and seen, is established. And none hath any portion therein save as God hath ordained for them.   BB00075

And His Manifestations are twelve souls with God, whom God hath made the pillars of His unity, the banners of His sanctification, the manifestations of His uniqueness, and the signs of His sovereignty and might. None knoweth them save God Who created them and He Who is above them, and all others beside them are not mentioned in their presence  BB00090

I beseech Thee at this moment to send down Thy mercy and the blessings of Thy sovereign oneness upon Hasan ibn 'Ali, Thy proof and the son of Thy proof, Thy friend and the son of Thy friends, Thy chosen one and the son of Thy chosen ones, whom Thou hast made the manifestation of Thy unity and the door of Thy oneness and the proof from Thee unto all Thy creation   BB00438

Verily the Pillars circle round the body of Fatima, the blessings of God be upon her, and the Chiefs circle round the heart of the Pillars, and the Nobles circle round the Chiefs. The Pillars look upon all things yet see naught but God alone. The Chiefs look through all things and see the Lord with them. The Nobles look through all things and see the Lord beyond them.  BB00072

And I bear witness that the successors of Muhammad - peace be upon him and his family - are twelve souls in the Book of God from the day He created not a letter in contingent being besides them, as God has testified for them in the might of His omnipotence, the sanctity of His divinity, the greatness of His glory, and the transcendence of His eternality, which none knows save He.  BB00137

I was with Abu Basir, Yahya al-Bazzar and Dawud ibn Kathir in the presence of Abu Abdullah when he came out to us in a state of anger. When he took his seat, he said: "How strange of people who claim that we know the unseen! None knows the unseen save God. Indeed, I had intended to discipline my maidservant, but she fled from me, and I know not in which of the rooms of the house she is."   BB00307

I turn unto Thee, O my God, through Muhammad and 'Ali and Fatimih and Hasan and Husayn and 'Ali son of Husayn and Muhammad son of 'Ali and Ja'far son of Muhammad and Musa son of Ja'far and 'Ali son of Musa and Muhammad son of 'Ali and 'Ali son of Muhammad and Hasan son of 'Ali and Muhammad son of Hasan - Thy proofs unto all Thy creation and Thy trustees throughout all the kingdoms of Thy earth and heaven   BB00149

O God! Send peace upon the repositories of His knowledge, the vessels of His wisdom, the pillars of His prophethood, and the dwellings of His blessing - Thy servants whom Thou hast chosen for Thy religion, approved for Thy mystery, and selected for Thy knowledge, whom Thou hast described in Thy Book, saying - and Thy word is the truth - "honored servants who speak not until He hath spoken, and who act by His command."  BB00174

I beseech Thee, O God, to send Thy blessings upon Muhammad, and 'Ali, and Fatimih, and Hasan, and Husayn, and 'Ali son of Husayn, and Muhammad son of 'Ali, and Ja'far son of Muhammad, and Musa son of Ja'far, and 'Ali son of Musa, and Muhammad son of 'Ali, and 'Ali son of Muhammad, and Hasan son of 'Ali, and Muhammad son of Hasan, and the manifestations of those four pillars after the ten in the world of testimony and after the unseen   BB00171

Glory be to God! If this station were to be revealed, all would testify that the Truth, exalted be His glory, hath had and hath no partner or likeness. The company of the chosen ones have been and are created by His Word, and the station of man is this most exalted Word: We possess for ourselves neither benefit nor harm, neither life nor resurrection. The abominable Shi'ihs each day diminished from the station of the Truth and added to their own.  BH04609

And peace be upon him whom God chose through Ali, His Friend, whom He fashioned for Himself and made the Guardian over all created things. And peace be upon him whom God selected through Hasan, His Proof, whom He was well-pleased with for His Cause and made him the station of His Self in all stations. And peace be upon him whom God chose through Husayn, His Vengeance, whom He gifted with martyrdom and made him the sign of His Countenance in all proofs.  BB00332

The first is the white pillar for the manifestation of the unity of the Divine Essence; and the second is the yellow pillar for the dawning of the unity of the Sun of Attributes; and the third is the green pillar for the manifestation of the unity of deeds; and the fourth is the red pillar for establishing the unity of worship before the countenance of the Divine Essence. He revealeth not unto the one receiving revelation save through that whereby He hath revealed Himself unto him.  BB00006

The Imams of religion, through their own selves, demonstrate through wisdom; through their manifestations, demonstrate through counsel; and through their names, demonstrate through disputation in the most excellent manner. And verily the one who beholds the station of the Divine Essence and dwells in the kingdom of Names and Attributes, were he to witness the manifestations of the Universal Guardianship, would be able to prove by every aspect attributed to them their absolute guardianship over all created things.  BB00014

Regarding the question of the revered mystic His Holiness Safi 'Ali Shah, may God perpetuate his glory and existence, concerning the wisdom behind the number twelve among the guiding stars, the pure Imams (peace be upon them from the Lord of creation) in the dispensation of His Holiness the Seal of the Prophets (greetings and peace be upon Him), numerous utterances flowed from the blessed tongue which cannot be fully described, for what emerged from His sweet utterance in response to this question transcends comprehension's grasp and reason's explanation.  AB02020

And I bear witness that your son Al-Hassan was God's proof and guardian, and through him the Throne was established upon the water and the celestial spheres were fixed in the kingdom of creation. He conveyed what was entrusted to him by his father in God's religion until he fulfilled his destiny. Verily we are God's and to Him we return. And I bear witness that your son Al-Hussein, peace be upon him, was God's proof to all who are in the heavens and earth. He fulfilled God's covenant and arose with His Cause until he endured in God's religion what none other could bear.  BB00134

And I bear witness to the Successors of Muhammad, peace be upon him and his family, as Thou didst bear witness to their rights before the creation of the heavens and earth, in such wise that none knoweth them save Thee, and none can describe them but Thee. For from the light of Thine essence hast Thou created them, from the flashing rays of Thy oneness hast Thou chosen them, from the holy splendor of Thy Self-Sufficiency hast Thou approved them, from the radiance of Thy bounty hast Thou selected them, and from the rays of the sun of Thy unity hast Thou elected them to a station whereat all things fall short...   BB00159

The second is the Book of Ali, peace be upon him, wherein God hath ordained the laws of absolute sovereignty pertaining to him, and it is the Paradise of Unity. The fourth is the Book of Hassan, peace be upon him, wherein are written his laws and the laws of his followers. The fifth is the Book of Hussein, peace be upon him - may my soul be sacrificed for him - wherein are the laws concerning himself. The sixth is the Book of Ja'far ibn Muhammad, peace be upon them both, wherein is written whatsoever God hath willed concerning him. The seventh is the Book of Musa ibn Ja'far, peace be upon them both, wherein is written all that God hath willed concerning him.   BB00455

This is the Temple of Ali, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Hasan, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Husayn, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Ali, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Muhammad, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Jafar, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Musa, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Ali, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Muhammad, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Ali, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Hasan, the great and righteous Imam. This is the Temple of Muhammad, the great and righteous Imam.  BB00004

On this, that 'Ali, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Hasan, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Husayn, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that 'Ali the Son of Husayn, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Muhammad the Son of 'Ali, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Ja'far the Son of Muhammad, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Musi the Son of Ja'far, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that 'Ali the Son of Musa, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Muhammad the Son of 'Ali, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that 'Ali the Son of Muhammad, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world... On this, that Hasan the Son of 'Ali, peace be upon Him, hath returned to the world...  BB00001
