Shall a man's wealth endure forever, or protect him from the One Who shall, erelong, seize him by his forelock? Gazing upon those who sleep beneath the gravestones, embosomed in the dust, could one ever distinguish the sovereign's crumbling skull from the subject's mouldering bones? Nay, by Him Who is the King of kings! Could one discern the lord from the vassal, or those that enjoyed wealth and riches from those who possessed neither shoes nor mat? By God! Every distinction hath been erased, save only for those who upheld the right and who ruled with justice. Whither are gone the learned men, the divines and potentates of old? What hath become of their discriminating views, their shrewd perceptions, their subtle insights and sage pronouncements? Where are their hidden coffers, their flaunted ornaments, their gilded couches, their rugs and cushions strewn about? Gone forever is their generation! All have perished, and, by God's decree, naught remaineth of them but scattered dust. Exhausted is the wealth they gathered, dispersed the stores they hoarded, dissipated the treasures they concealed. Naught can now be seen but their deserted haunts, their roofless dwellings, their uprooted tree-trunks, and their faded splendour. No man of insight will let wealth distract his gaze from his ultimate objective, and no man of understanding will allow riches to withhold him from turning unto Him Who is the All-Possessing, the Most High. Where is he who held dominion over all whereon the sun shineth, who lived extravagantly on earth, seeking out the luxuries of the world and of all that hath been created upon it? Where is the commander of the swarthy legion and the upraiser of the golden standard? Where is the ruler of Zawra', and where the tyrant of Fayha'? Where are those before whose munificence the treasure-houses of the earth shrank in shame, and at whose largesse and swelling spirit the very ocean was abashed? Where is he who stretched forth his arm in rebellion, and who turned his hand against the All-Merciful? Where are they who went in quest of earthly pleasures and the fruits of carnal desires? Whither are fled their fair and comely women? Where are their swaying branches, their spreading boughs, their lofty mansions, their trellised gardens? And what of the delights of these gardens--their exquisite grounds and gentle breezes, their purling streams, their soughing winds, their cooing doves and rustling leaves? Where now are their resplendent morns and their brightsome countenances wreathed in smiles? Alas for them! All have perished and are gone to rest beneath a canopy of dust. Of them one heareth neither name nor mention; none knoweth of their affairs, and naught remaineth of their signs.  BH00007

"What is eternal is the soul of the people of recognition."  AB06933

Every name and trace shall be erased and obliterated, and every comfort and ease shall ultimately be transformed into trials.  AB12195

Drink from the wine of love and close thine eyes to the world, for whatever thou seest will perish and pass away in an instant, while that which is with God remaineth and perisheth not, and endureth and fadeth not away. Know the value of these days, for union is not always possible. The nightingale singeth only in spring and crieth not until it seeth the rose. The time cometh when the divine nightingale ceaseth from mentioning meanings and taketh flight to the spiritual branch and settleth in the divine invisible rose gardens.  BH03210

As to lofty buildings, imposing mansions, and magnificent palaces: Every inhabited and flourishing place will become desolate and every mighty edifice reduced to ruin. Therefore, how much better it is for these habitations which are more fragile than a spider's web to be wrecked and ruined for the love of the sovereign Lord of the Kingdom. For if a house of clay be destroyed, there will be reared in its stead a glorious mansion within the soul-uplifting immensity of the realms above. If one's home and dwelling-place be laid waste in this transitory dust-heap, one will be provided with a matchless and incomparable nest within the rose-garden of eternity.  AB00627

These buildings you can find everywhere; for my part I am searching for men. Buildings are many, men are few. There are ever so many palaces in the world. There have been great palaces built by the ancient Kings and to day not a stone has been left to tell the sad story of their fall. The present palaces will go through the same process of decline. When you lay the foundation of a wonderful palace, at that very moment you must think that a day shall come - it may be hundred years, one thousand years - ten or 20 thousands years - when not one stone of your palace will be left. But the divine Palace shall never be destroyed, its traces are eternal.   ABU1870

Find comfort in His endless grace and the glad-tidings of eternal life.   AB05927

The joy and sorrow of the world both pass away, and its honor and abasement both perish.  ABU3308

However, the grateful servant of the friends attains eternal glory and finds everlasting bounty   AB05669

that by which your name shall endure through the eternity of His exalted and inaccessible Kingdom  BH08203

Consider carefully that millions of kings came into this world and all were obliterated and disappeared.  AB03332

This world is a theatre. It is not an eternal world: it is a stage where every kind of play is enacted.   ABU2945

That which is lasting and enduring is worthy of consideration and deserving of the righteous ones' aspiration.  AB06657

Everything shall perish save His Face. Therefore, strive as much as thou canst to attain unto that which endureth  AB09430

Hasten to eternal life! Hasten to everlasting salvation! Hasten to eternal permanence! Hasten to everlasting life!  AB05359

The deeds and actions of such souls have endured and shall endure for as long as the kingdom of earth and heaven endure   BH05313

except the honor of the All-Merciful One and the comforts which are based on the spirit, these are eternal and everlasting  AB10582

God hath specially revealed for each one that which is the cause of eternal life. Blessed is the soul that hath held fast unto it  BH06301

All that is in the world shall perish and pass away, while this most exalted and glorious station shall endure for thee eternally.  BH01735

Such souls are the inheritors of earthly and heavenly dominion. Their mention shall not perish nor shall the world's vicissitudes alter it.   BH03171

the breezes from the Holy Garden, the circling-place of the Concourse on High, bestow life upon hearts and confer eternal existence upon souls  AB10644

However, your countenance shall become radiant in the celestial paradise and your love shall become bright and luminous in the eternal world.   AB07579

That which exists and is witnessed shall soon vanish, but any deed performed by any soul for the triumph of God's Cause... shall endure forever  BH02107

Then you will live forever. This is the true longevity, the real life. The real life is eternal happiness and existence in the Knowledge of God.   ABU3372

Contrast between the eternal divine realm and temporal physical world: "The eternal beauty and divine countenance undergo no change or alteration"   AB06112

Christ and the Holy Manifestations and the apostles had no nest whatsoever in this ephemeral world, yet in the divine realm they had a mighty palace.  AB04346

But the servitude of the servants of God is an eternal sovereignty - as ages and cycles pass, its flame grows brighter and its rays become more luminous.   AB04363

Blessed is the soul that in this transient world hath attained unto that which is everlasting - that is, such deeds as shed forth the fragrance of eternity   BH08164

This is an eternal bond and an everlasting inscription. Centuries and ages shall pass away, but the blessed names of the righteous ones shall endure and remain  AB01276

Whatever is attributed to the Truth is beloved and desired, and is joined with eternality and immortality; and whatever pertains to creation is ephemeral and transient   AB11945

One must attain eternal life and seek everlasting sovereignty...Even in this transient world his traces remain firm and enduring, his mention continues, and his light spreads.  AB03332

if people's services and efforts are undertaken for the benefit of all, they are acceptable to God and leave lasting traces. Otherwise, every other effort is limited and transitory.  ABU3316

But the sovereigns of this earthly realm have no permanence, while the spiritual monarchs, the beloved of God, like the celestial sun in the eternal realm, remain forever fixed and established.  AB11036

worldly rewards are temporary, but "the good deeds that endure are best in thy Lord's sight as rewards and best as works to merit."  AB12349

though it be this perishable member of thy body which thou hast laid down in the path of God, yet thou shalt find the Divine Gift, shalt behold the Celestial Beauty, obtain imperishable glory and attain unto everlasting life   AB02552

Permanence is deadly poison to me while annihilation is a wondrous antidote. Indeed existence is my affliction, life is my illness, determination is my trial, my receptivity is my fire and my capacity is my burning.  AB00641

We come now to the subject of transformation in the nature of matter; and we wish to show you that that which is temporal is essentially different from that which is eternal, and that neither can change its nature for that of the other.  ABU1139

But thou hast an enduring and steadfast sovereignty. Herein lies the difference: the might of that sovereignty is but fancy and imagination, while the glory of this sovereignty is the opening chapter of divine favors and its blessed conclusion  AB10944

He is not content with temporary life but seeks eternal life. He does not remain in nature's darkness but yearns for the Kingdom of light. Therefore be not content with this fleeting life. Seek a life that has no end. Seek a glory that is eternal.  ABU0240

Man must spend his talent in a cause the result of which is eternal. If he breaths one breath in the path of God, it will immortalize him throughout ages and cycles. If he writes a poem or a book on the Cause of God they will bring forth eternal fruits.   ABU1820

There are two states of existence -the temporal and the eternal- the conditioned and the unconditioned - the estate of impotence and of primeval power. We may compare them to utter poverty and abundant wealth. The eternal state has all the perfections, the temporal, all the imperfections. The eternal state has no change, no transformations; the temporal has no permanency.  ABU0524


However, in the City of God he laid one brick, and that brick endured and will not be destroyed. This brick he laid in the City of God, and it will never be destroyed. This trace of his will remain forever in the divine edifice. Every foundation will ultimately be ruined except the divine foundation. This is how it is - every foundation is ruined except the foundation of Truth, except the foundation of the beloved ones of God.   ABU1380

That which endures are the institutions of God's loved ones; divine foundations are eternal. Two thousand five hundred years ago, Elijah dwelt here in a cave. Some days he would ascend the mountain and rest in the shade of this cave. Now after two thousand five hundred years it has become this magnificent monastery. But consider how many kings have come and gone in this period, what trials they endured, yet perished, while the cave where Elijah occasionally went to rest remains.   ABU0635

The days of this world, its life and existence, which are altered by a mere yellow wind and return to nothingness - to these have they clung so tenaciously that they have passed by the immortal divine Kingdom and remain occupied with their own desires in the wilderness of heedlessness and the desert of error, until they return to their final resting place. How many kings and dwellers of palaces have in an instant returned to their graves! Well was it said: A crier called out to them after they were buried: Where are the couches, the crowns, and the robes? At every moment, how many possessors of wealth and might go forth in utter abasement and great fear. This divine decree is inscribed in clear script upon the tablet of all existence, high and low: All things are perishing save His face.  BH11173
