One day this Haji Muhammad grabbed hold of a Christian priest's collar to teach him the Faith. During their conversation, he pointed to the cross the priest had hung around his neck and asked, "Reverend priest, what is this that you have hung around your neck?" He replied, "It is the symbol of the cross." Haji asked, "Why have you chosen the cross?" The priest said, "Because Christ's body touched the wooden cross at the time of His martyrdom, so it is sacred." Haji said, "Why don't you adorn your neck with something that brought comfort and ease to Christ, instead of hanging the symbol of the cross which caused His suffering and martyrdom?" The priest asked, "What thing brought comfort to Christ?" Haji Muhammad said, "The donkey." The priest became agitated and reproachfully said to him, "Where, which donkey?" Haji said, "What an uninformed priest you are! Haven't you read in the Gospel that Christ sent two of His disciples to a nearby village and instructed them, 'There you will find a young donkey tied up - bring it.' They went and brought the donkey, and Christ rode it with His disciples into Jerusalem. Be fair - isn't that donkey which brought comfort to Christ better than this cross you have hung around your neck?" The priest became very agitated and, having no response, came to me and complained that Haji Muhammad had spoken thus and insulted him, and requested that I tell my followers to stop teaching priests and stop bothering them. ABU1300

It is said that once John of Chrysostom was walking along the seashore, thinking over the question of the trinity, trying to reconcile it with finite reason. Suddenly his attention was attracted by a boy sitting on the shore, putting water into a cup. Approaching him, he asked, My child, what art thou doing? I am trying to put the sea into this cup he answered. How foolish art thou, John replied, in trying to do the impossible. The child rejoined, Thy work is stranger than mine, for thou art labouring to bring within the grasp of human intellect the conception of the trinity.  ABU0018

In the time of Moses, the ides of the Trinity was shown in (1) God, (2) the speaker of Mount Sinai, and (3) The Fire (which corresponds to our idea of the Holy Spirit). In the time of Abraham, this thought was represented by Abraham, the Angels, and God.  ABU2649

One branch of self-sacrifice is the agreement of the trinity with the unity of God. All those who came in the days of Christ have been unable to explain the trinity to make it agree with the unity. St. John ( the gold-mouthed) was one day walking and thinking how he could combine unity and trinity. He came upon a little boy who was sitting by the sea, having a small cup in his hand. St. John asked what He was going to do and he said he was going to put all the water of the sea in it. Just as impossible to combine trinity and unity. Those who have been only lovers of the light and not the glass, when the same light was manifested by Moses, they were not veiled from the light, but knew it to be the same. Those of the followers of Moses who loved the lantern when the light shined in Jesus Christ, they refused to accept it. It is known that nothing can have three origins. Everything has one origin. There must have been one origin, so how can three have one? In one way we can make the trinity and unity agree. If we say the three are the same in all their properties and virtues. If there is any distinction between the three and one, then we must find out if that distinction is existent or pre-existent. The trinity is the Father, Son and Holy Ghost, and if we say these three make one identity, then it is only one and cannot possibly be three, for it takes three to make one. But if there is any distinction between them, then we must find out if the distinction is existent or pre-existent. If we say the three were one in pre-existence, but has become three in existence, then we give to the created the power to cause disunion to the uncreated. This is an impossibility and unreasonable. Thus if we say the distinction was pre-existent we have five instead of three, for in the origin we have three; then the two distinctions make five, and the five then must have four, and we would then have nine, and we would go on forever. So this is unintelligible. ABU0356

It is impossible that three are one and one be three. For instance - like a piece of iron - it is hard, black, cold, but in the fire becomes soft, red and hot - it leaves its own qualities and takes the qualities of the fire. So the iron can say, "I am fire" - the fire can say, "I am in the iron and fire in one", because he has the qualities. So Jesus Christ said, "Father in Son," and "Son and Father are One."  One and singleness are not against the Trinity and vice versa. ABU1760

But as to the question of the Trinity, know, O advancer unto God, that in each one of the cycles wherein the Lights have shone forth upon the horizons (i.e., in each prophetic dispensation) and the Forgiving Lord hath revealed Himself on Mount Paran or Mount Sinai, or Mount Seir, there are necessarily three things: The Giver of Grace, and the Grace, and the Recipient of the Grace; the Source of the Effulgence, and the Effulgence, and the Recipient of the Effulgence; the Illuminator, and the Illumination, and Illuminated.   AB00460

As for the difference between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit: the Father is the Sun of Truth, and the Son and the Holy Spirit are two opposing mirrors, and that Sun is manifest and visible in both mirrors. When you look at the reality, the Sun is one, but it is reflected in two other mirrors and has apparently multiplied, for the sun that appears in the mirror is also the sun, but it is the manifestation of the real Sun. It is not that the Sun has descended from its exalted station and taken up residence in the mirror. Rather, the Sun remains in its sanctified exaltation, but is reflected in the mirror.  AB06817

Glory be to God, the All-Knowing, Who created things through the crafting of choice according to what befits Him from the wonders of lights - through the Will, the mystery of contingent beings; through the Purpose, the secret repository of existing things; and through Destiny, the ruling of trinity for the sake of limitation's consciousness. From this the Christians took the form of the cross and the descent of the divine into the human realm. The Beloved has informed of their misguided inner thoughts: "The Christians say: 'He is the third of three,' while He is but one God. Glory be to God above what they associate with Him."  BB00364

In every dispensation three persons are mentioned. In the Mosaic dispensation there was Jehovah, the burning bush and Moses. In the Christian time we had Christ, the holy-Spirit and the Father. In Islam we have Mohamad, Gabriel and Allah.  ABU2625


Praise be to God Who created the letters according to the repetition of the name of the All-Bountiful from His own Self, and the letter la that the tongues of all created things might proclaim His praise in the letter la without the judgment which the Christians have taken therefrom in the form of the cross, and the Divine Nature resolved the alif of unity in the human nature of the letter of multiplicity which is the lam.  BB00301

The question of the Trinity, since the time of His Holiness Christ until now, is the belief of the Christians, and to the present time all the learned among them are perplexed and confounded. All have confessed that the question is beyond the grasp of reason, for three cannot become one, nor one three.  AB00952

Exalted then be God above what the anthropomorphists among the Christians describe, when they take the form of the cross from the temple of trinity and interpret the signs of Divinity in terms of limitation, thereby fabricating against God a falsehood based on the word of association, when they say that Christ is the Son of God.   BB00216

In every dispensation there have been three persons: In the dispensation of Moses, there were Moses and the Fire and the Speaker of Sinai; in the dispensation of Christ, there were the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit; in the dispensation of Islam, there were the Lord and Gabriel and the Beloved. Yet in reality these three are one. In philosophical terms: motion, mover and moved; cause, effect and affected; creation, creator and created; knowledge, teacher and taught; grace, bestower and recipient.  ABU2844
