be a living torch of the Fire of the Love of God   ABU2670

Be enkindled and soul-consumed. Be mindful and suppliant.  AB08160

the teacher himself must be infinitely affected at the time of teaching   AB04273


become so enkindled with the fire of God as to set the world aflame  AB08429

In this Day, divine confirmations and assistance reach those who are enkindled in heart and soul   AB06328

One must become so enkindled with the fire of the love of God that hearts are completely attracted.   AB02785

become so enkindled with the fire of the love of God that you may cause others to be set ablaze thereby  BH09052

cause all to be enkindled with the warmth of divine love and illumined by the lights of the Luminary of His utterance   BH03957

Therefore, since thou hast been enkindled with the love of God, thou art radiant and brilliant, resplendent and effulgent.  AB09654

you were like a flame of fire among the righteous and chosen ones - the heat of your love burning the attracted hearts within breasts   AB04573

This is because at that time there was a real genuine, enthusiastic Baha'i there and he kept all the friends in a state of enkindlement and activity.   ABU1643

it is hoped that each one of those handmaids of the All-Merciful will be so enkindled with the divine fire that she will illumine the world with the heat of the love of God  AB02650

Similarly there are some enkindled souls whose very presence in a meeting changes its atmosphere, suffering the people to become truly spiritual, turning their faces towards God.  ABU2349

Whilst thou still hast breath within thy body, therefore, strive to abide in a state of enkindlement at all times, be sure to be in motion and inner joy at every moment of thy life.   AB01601

"And thou, O thou who art attracted by the verses of God, be thou glad in spirit, enkindled in heart, and stirred in soul by this breeze which wafteth from it the fragrance of the Spirit."   AB09074

Be dilated in thy heart by the gentle breeze which emanates from the garden of Eternal Life and enkindled in the Tree of Sinai in the center of Paradise; so that thou mayest be a pillar of fire and a cloud of light in this age  AB06434

Teaching is like unto a candle which is lighted in the soul of man; it is the Fire of the Love of God. When this condition of enkindlement is obtained, man becomes entirely unconscious and his words will penetrate through the rock.  ABU2185

Now that thou hast been enkindled and dost hold the embers of this fire within thyself spread far and wide thy flames and fan the heat of this divine fire that the veils of vain imaginings may be entirely consumed and burnt away in both the east and west.  AB09490

God willing, mayest thou be so enkindled by the fire of the utterance of the All-Merciful that its warmth shall influence those who are with thee, that all may attain to the most great bounty and turn their faces toward the Countenance of the Ancient of Days.   BH03625

Be thou aglow and illumined and be thou enkindled in soul with the fire of the love of God in every assemblage. Be not quiet for a moment and do not seed composure even for an hour (i.e., be active in spreading the light). Be thou a cause for the illumining of hearts and spiritualizing of souls.  AB02307

How are the Believers? Are they enkindled? Are they brilliant stars in the Assembly? Do they serve the Cause of God in Love and Harmony? In the meetings of Believers is there a real quickening, or is it cold? What we wish for the meetings of Believers is that they shall be enkindled and enlightened.  ABU1767

Every morning sing a new song and every evening think a new thought. Every day shed a new light over the dark minds of humanity and every hour cast a new joy in the minds of men. Let the pillars of the earth shake with the thunder of your voice and send a new reverberation through the columns of mankind.  ABU0567

The luminous flame of guidance was ignited in the Sinai of manifestation and its heat reached all regions. Now that divine flame from the invisible Kingdom of the Most Glorious Concourse sheds its radiance upon all horizons. Strive that thou mayest be enkindled by its effulgence and attain the utmost attraction through its revelation.  AB09528

There were some amongst the believers who were most learned and erudite but because "the Flame of the Spirit" was not burning in their souls they could not teach one person. Whenever he began to speak he himself was so stirred by the 'urge of the spirit' that the listeners were moved profoundly and accepted the Truth before he had come to the end of his talk.  ABU0990
