
Truth (the highest truth) is unattainable except through the favor of the Holy Spirit.  ABU3624

If Thou wishest me to live, Through me blow Thy holy breath. The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give To me, who've lain an age in death. Thou, both End and Origin, Thou without and Thou within  --  From every eye Thou hidest well, And yet in every eye dost dwell.  AB00002

But the Breath of the Holy Spirit is the collective force which brings together the friends of God. This is like unto a firmly rooted tree. The fruit is not for one month or one year, it is eternal. That is the real collective force.  ABU0470


It is not a political movement, it is not an industrial movement, it is not a scientific movement, -- but it is the influence of the Word of God, it is the breath of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0369

Yet there is another standard which is the peculiar possession of the Chosen of God. This standard is the breathings of the Holy Spirit. By that power assurance is produced, man becomes certain, and the consciousness is satisfied.  ABU0648

Therefore we must all strive so that divine illumination may appear among humanity, the breaths of the Holy Spirit may take effect, and heavenly radiance may shine forth, so that human hearts may attain complete connection with each other.  ABU0318

Soon they shall witness the manifest signs of the divine Holy Spirit's bounty in this luminous frame to such a degree that minds shall be bewildered and eyes shall be amazed.   AB02581

Thank the Almighty that you strive to enter God's Kingdom and desire life from the Holy Spirit. I hope that your greatest wish may be realized, then loosen your eloquent tongue and speak always of God. This is eternal life. This is heavenly sustenance. This is the breathing of the Holy Spirit.  AB12574

But the Power of the Blessed Perfection has come to stay, bringing healing under its wide, outstretched wings. This Power alone is the solvent for all these puzzling problems. There may be found here and there some medicine to give temporary relief; but the lasting and permanent cure is the Bahai Power, which unites all peoples and sets at naught their seeming differences. This Power alone transforms the hearts, inspires the spirits, uplifts the minds, reveals the secrets of Love and unfurls the Banner of Divine Brotherhood.  ABU1803

As the media of light and heat carry fragrance and bloom to earth, so the intermediary of the Holy Spirit brings man to warmth, perfection and inspiration.  ABU0904

All Art is a gift of the Holy Spirit.   ABU3051

the Holy Spirit will speak in thy mouth  AB07127

the power of the Holy Spirit sustains you  BHU0031

Bestow abundantly the Holy Spirit's grace   AB06120

freely grant the power of the Faithful Spirit   AB06120

His trust is on the Grace of the Holy Spirit.   ABU3416

The assistance of the Holy Spirit is descending  AB02957

the breaths of the Spirit are breathed into it.   ABU2708

Its servants are the people of the Abha Kingdom   ABU2066

Glorified be God for this moving, gleaming Spirit!  BH10844

quickened by the holy breaths of the Spirit of God  AB07054

My spirituality descends from the world of lights.  ABU1678

the breathings of the Holy Spirit will take effect.  AB05726

He conquered it with the power of the Holy Spirit.   ABU1558

thy spirit revived by the bounty of the Holy Spirit  AB09752

the hosts of the Kingdom are arriving wave upon wave  AB07440

May the outpourings of the Holy Spirit encompass all   AB04633

receive a portion from the breaths of the Holy Spirit  AB10046

This age is the age of the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB07140

the breathings of the Holy Spirit are readily apparent  ABU3707

"their captains are the inspiration of the Holy Spirit"  ABU2729

that she be confirmed by the breaths of the Holy Spirit   AB01816

the power of the Holy Spirit makes every weak one strong  ABU1606

But it is the One Holy Spirit that strengthens all men.   ABU0975

"The breath of the Holy Spirit is refreshing the world."  ABU0961

The hearts must receive the bounties of the Holy-Spirit   ABU2781

the power of the Holy Spirit will support and assist him  AB11272

make us fresh and verdant through the Holy Spirit's grace  AB04708

adorn the pages with whatever the Holy Spirit may inspire   AB05219

The breath of the Holy Spirit spread throughout the world   AB05428

resurrect the spirits with the breaths of the Holy Spirit   AB05484

GOOD NEWS! GOOD NEWS! The Holy Spirit is being outpoured!   ABU2110

Verily, Christ was the Word of God and the Spirit of God.   ABU1789

become the recipient of the outpourings of the Holy Spirit  AB09246

quicken the dead body of humankind through the divine spirit  AB04814

We are dead; quicken us with the Breaths of Thy Holy-Spirit.  ABU2901

the breaths of the Holy Spirit which have perfumed the minds  AB11223

From the breaths of the Holy Spirit eternal life is manifest  AB08815

"become the recipient of the outpourings of the Holy Spirit"  AB09246

that the breathings of the Holy Spirit may quicken thy spirit  AB07573

Thirteenth, the utmost need for the breaths of the Holy Spirit  AB01419

The Fragrances of the Holy-Spirit waft from this Sacred Spot.   ABU3359

The breaths of the Holy Spirit are quickening souls and hearts  AB01193

"What is the Holy Spirit?" "It is the Sun of Truth, O Artist."   ABU3085

The second food is attraction to the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB03723

The divine Angel strove and the hidden Hand poured it in the cup  AB02766

holy hearts will be attracted by the breaths of the Holy Spirit   AB02366

then their minds will become the receptacles of the Holy Spirit   ABU2658

the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are descending like torrents  ABU2682

the Holy Spirit breathed into the temples of the Concourse on High  BH11053

Blessed is the spirit which is revived by the Breath of the Merciful  ABU1938

through it the Spirit was sent down and the Faithful Spirit did speak  BH04636

The Spirit was shining in the holy horizon from the side of the brow   BH01447

Be confident that the breathings of the Holy Spirit have been wafted   AB05796

Turn to the Abha Kingdom and seek confirmation from the Holy Spirit.   AB05798

universal education can be accomplished only through the Holy Spirit   ABU1653

will be confirmed by the Holy Spirit and inspired by the Faithful Spirit  AB05377

Rest thou assured that the Holy Spirit is thy protector and thy Guardian  AB10368

given thee to drink, both morn and eve, from the Kawthar of My knowledge   BH10710

In this divine Cause where the Holy Spirit is the first servant and helper  AB04059

and that one commune day and night with the breathings of the Holy Spirit   AB02756

My hope is that the breathings of the Holy Spirit will be wafted over them  AB10091

and His Holiness Christ, from the wafting of the breezes of the Holy Spirit  AB07581

Faded are we: refresh and rejoice us by the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.   AB05471

If thou wouldst attain life everlasting, commune always with the Holy Spirit  AB09252

Through the grace of the Holy Spirit, heal those who are sick without remedy.  AB07460

The Spiritual beauty we see around us today is from the breathings of Christ.   ABU3346

Therefore be confident that the breathings of the Holy Spirit will confirm you   AB07386

and quicken them through the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in this radiant Day   AB03313

The Holy Spirit is watchful and the Spirit of companionship waiting expectantly   BH11060

Verily, thy Lord will assist and inspire thee with the breath of the Holy Spirit  AB05975

The other way is through the guidance of God and the descent of the Holy Spirit.   ABU2390

thou wilt speak in most eloquent words through the confirmation of the Holy Spirit  AB06430

You were deprived of the breaths of the Holy Spirit and received an abundant share   AB04829

When divine gifts appear and the Holy Spirit confirms, capacity is not a condition.  ABU2471

"and the breath of the Holy Spirit has bestowed eternal life in this transient world"  AB06449

baptized with the Holy Spirit which is pouring today from the Kingdom of Holinesses.   AB02473

The outpouring of the Holy Spirit of Christ can make decayed bones living and strong   AB03838

he is the supreme intermediary for the descent of the revelation of the Glorious Lord  AB09909

The sweet scents of intimacy wafted and the breaths of the Holy Spirit were diffused.   AB04745

The ocean of grandeur hath been stirred by breezes wafting from the blessed white spot  AB06506

Truth (the highest truth) is unattainable except through the favor of the Holy Spirit.  ABU3624

The Teachings of Baha'u'llah are the Breaths of the Holy Spirit which create men anew.  ABU3521

"...when human beings shall become willing to accept the guidance of the Holy Spirit."  ABU2793

He is assisted with the breaths of the Holy Spirit...the Holy Spirit will inspire you.  ABU0432

strengthen her through the breaths of the Holy Spirit that she may arise to serve Thee  AB11249

Heavenly confirmations were manifested and the breaths of the Holy Spirit surged forth   AB03906

In truth, you are a son of the Kingdom and confirmed by the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB03987

Christ established the Kingdom of God with the life-giving breaths of the Holy Spirit.   ABU1487

baptize thyself with the Divine Spirit, overflowing abundantly from the Kingdom of God!  AB10997

The Cause of God shall be raised and the breath of the Holy Spirit impart eternal life.  AB08187

This is a wondrous gift to 'Abdu'l-Baha and the highest hope of this destitute servant.   AB05651

The breath of the Holy Spirit must give life and the earthly human must become heavenly.  AB02264

Above and over physical forces, phenomenal forces, the Holy Spirit itself shall aid you.   ABU3099

Were it not for the inspiration of the breath of the Holy Spirit, this life would be a farce.  ABU1155

Through the Power of the Holy Spirit all mankind will be ushered under the Tent of Sacrifice.  AB07136

There must needs be the power of the Holy Spirit to put into practice the divine principles.   ABU0763

through the grace of the Holy Spirit, appeared like flowers in the utmost freshness and grace   AB03466

The healing that is by the power of the Holy Spirit needs no special concentration or contact.  ABU2873

I cherish the hope that you too will revive the friends through the breath of the Holy Spirit.  ABU2429

This is the Glory of the Kingdom! This is the heavenly Bestowal! This is the Divine Outpouring!  AB02405

be confirmed by the breath of the Holy Spirit and assisted by the Hosts of the Supreme Concourse  AB08457

Today the force for Unity is the Holy Spirit of Baha'o'llah. He manifested this Spirit of Unity.  ABU1590

But now it is not like that and without the breaths of the Holy Spirit the Cause does not advance.  ABU1850

The Fire (which corresponds to our idea of the Holy Spirit)... the bounty which is the Holy Spirit.  ABU2649

All are bereft of the outpourings of the Holy Spirit and are heedless and deprived of eternal life.  ABU2574

Through the confirmation of the Holy Spirit, they speak with eloquent tongue and clear expression.   AB01953

The Holy Spirit breathes the breath of confirmation and the Faithful Spirit wafts like gentle breezes.  AB05769

then his breath would take effect within the heart of the world through the breath of the Holy Spirit   AB04994

be confirmed by the Holy Spirit in all conditions, and speak with the power of the spirit at all times   AB06567

Let us pray to God that the breath of the Holy Spirit may again give hope and refreshment to the people   ABU3535

But the divine Spirit discovereth divine realities and cosmic mysteries in the realm of the divine world  AB09754

when I stood before this great gathering I found the atmosphere of the church filled with the Holy Spirit  ABU3281

"The Christians claim that this means the Holy Spirit, which came after Christ and abode in His disciples."  ABU2884

unless hearts are quickened by the breaths of the Holy Spirit, souls are liberated, and a new cycle appears  AB11677

have been set ablaze with the fire of Thy love through the breathings of the Holy Spirit amongst the worlds   AB05503

Awaken (the people) by the breeze of the Paradise of ABHA and make them alive by the power of the Holy Spirit.  AB03088

No, it is not the Spirit of God, but it is the Bounty of God. It is not a part of God, for it is His creation.   ABU2034

As to the "white dove," it is the Holy Spirit. It shall flutter over thee and over the head of the beloved of God.  AB04936

Christ healed by the power of his word, because the word of the Messiah was the Holy Spirit purified from all else.  ABU2579

The breath of the Holy Spirit shall confirm you, and although many will arise against you, they shall not prevail!   ABU1175

Hearts are quickened by the divine morning breeze and lips are smiling from the fragrance of the infinite Paradise.   AB05363

The breezes of the Holy Spirit have spread throughout the vast regions and expansive spaces of the furthermost shore  AB11011

Glad tidings, glad tidings, that the breaths of the Holy Spirit are giving life and the world of humanity is reborn!  ABU1357

The tongue becomes confirmed with the confirmations of the Holy Spirit and the heart becomes a source of inspiration   AB07487

Therefore there must be divine love and spiritual brotherhood, which are produced by the breaths of the Holy Spirit.   ABU1130

you are intoxicated from the cup of guidance and in the utmost joy and delight from the wine of "Am I not your Lord?"  AB09585

A herald calleth out from the direction of the Throne and summoneth all who are on earth to the most exalted horizon.   BH04803

The unity of black and white was impossible and unattainable, but the breaths of the Holy Spirit brings them together.  AB02915

the Holy Spirit teaches every pure soul who is a faithful, assured believer attracted to the Kingdom of the Great Lord   AB06431

whom the Spirit raised up unto this Cause, whereby all who are in the kingdom of command and creation were thunderstruck  BH00499

The Christ is the central point of the Holy Spirit; he was born of the Holy Spirit; he was raised up of the Holy Spirit.  ABU3098

Only that brotherhood is permanent and eternal, for it is a spiritual brotherhood through the breath of the Holy Spirit.  ABU2874

Resuscitate them through the Breaths of Thy Holy Spirit! Grant them eternal life! Bestow upon them heavenly perfections!  ABU2174

through the power of the Holy Spirit and divine confirmation, they may heal the sick, the blind and the deaf in those areas.   AB06251

I speak not of Mine own self, but rather through what the Spirit uttereth within My breast, and God is witness to what I say.   BH02087

In the Christian time we had Christ, the holy-Spirit and the Father...God revealed Himself...to Christ through the Holy Spirit  ABU2625

The Faithful Spirit, Gabriel, the Holy Spirit, and the Most Strong Power are expressions referring to one and the same thing.   AB11477

Verily We have sent down unto thee this Book as an exposition of the Truth, and verily We have made thee a sign by God's leave.  BB00002

"There were many holy messengers sent into the world; they came one after another, and all diffused the breath of the Holy Spirit."  AB05004

Say: Verily He is the Spirit, and at this moment He is in the Most Exalted Horizon, cooing with the cooings of the Dove of the Cause   BH10022

They relate their mystic connection from heart to heart and their spirits sing and carol to each other in the one universal harmony.   AB05485

I hope through the eternal bounty of the Lord that his honor Isma'il will, like Gabriel, deliver the message of the Supreme Concourse  AB03345

This is not the work of everybody. It necessitates a divine and holy potency, the potency of inspiration, the power of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0079

That food is the divine advices and exhortations revealed in the Tablets and the spiritual outpourings of the breath of the Holy Spirit.  AB08222

Say: The Holy Spirit speaketh in this polished and burnished breast, and calleth the loved ones of God to what was ordained in the Bayan   BH04755

I pray to God that He may cause to descend upon thee a heavenly blessing, quicken thy heart with the Holy Spirit into an everlasting life  AB06435

Therefore, the Holy Spirit endowed the Apostles with the tongue of the Kingdom, and they spoke with all peoples as if in their own tongue  AB05412

Without doubt this is the power of the Holy Spirit, for this is the cause of unity that gathers all humanity under the shelter of one Word.  ABU0318

Every soul, through the grace of the Most Great Name, became the manifestation of these words: We breathed into it a measure of Our spirit.  AB06812

The earth of being hath quivered and flourished as the clouds of bounty have poured down the waters of divine manifestation upon all regions.  AB07805

Since you belong to this class of souls, therefore you have realized the Kingdom of God and have partaken of the bestowals of the Holy Spirit.  AB06377

Wherefore, praise ye the Lord, that in the lamp of your hearts the Flame of Divine Guidance is kindled and ye have entered the Kingdom of God.  AB02129

I begged of God to breathe the Holy Spirit into the soul of thy soul and to cause the lights of communion to shine upon the heart of thy heart.  AB10206

But a servant of God who found eternal life through the breaths of the Holy Spirit established an everlasting sovereignty in the divine Kingdom.  AB03332

If you want them to grow up and become strong trees you must water them by the Bounty of God, and let the Sun of His Holy Spirit shine upon them.  ABU2644

This standard is the breathings of the Holy Spirit. By that power assurance is produced, man becomes certain, and the consciousness is satisfied.  ABU0648

The disciples of Christ were apparently abased, yet they achieved something which Napoleon never did: they changed the whole aspect of the world.  ABU2727

O thou who art seeking for the Power of the Holy Spirit! The reality of man is like unto a sea, and the Holy Power is like unto brilliant pearls.  AB09734

This Assembly has been organized for the exaltation of God - the Holy Spirit...May baptize them with Spirit and may bestow Light and eternal Life.  AB08622

Through the outpourings of the Kingdom of holiness they are in the utmost growth and development and in complete attraction to the breaths of God.  AB01836

Through the power of the Holy Spirit He proclaimed unity. He endured hardships in this path. Now praise be to God the results of that are evident.  ABU0618

That perchance through the grace of the King of existence, the eye and ear and heart may not remain deprived of the outpourings of the Holy Spirit   BH10807

This neighborliness makes one an inheritor of the Kingdom, gathers one beneath the Tree of Life, and bestows the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.   AB05843

O maid-servant of God, verily the Holy Spirit breathes in this day unto the hearts which are moving, beating, pure and attracted by the love of God.  AB02801

May you receive the clear vision of the Holy Spirit so that your hearts may be illumined and see the Sun of Truth shining through all material clouds   ABU2529

References to "the dawning of the lights of guidance" and divine outpourings that illuminate and purify reality point to the action of the Holy Spirit   AB01095

The Most Great Spirit hath turned toward thee from the direction of the Prison and remembereth thee with that which its fragrance shall never pass away   BH10931

for by the power of the Word of God and the breaths of the Holy Spirit, all the mighty forces of the angels of heaven are arrayed in the highest horizon  AB04261

"In this day should anyone unloose his tongue to teach the Faith of God and spread abroad its fragrances, the Holy Spirit shall undoubtedly assist him."  AB07574

be a sign of knowledge, standard of assurance and a light of God, so that thou mayest become strengthened by the breaths of the Holy Spirit in these days  AB11109

The banner of holiness was lifted up and the Holy Spirit began its work of confirming. The fragrance of God emanated and his divine Spirit conferred life.  AB10295

The text explicitly mentions "Even as the Holy Spirit, the grace of the Ancient Beauty and the effulgence of the Most Great Name quicken the heart of men"   AB02610

When the spirit is confirmed and assisted by the confirmation of the Holy Spirit then it will show its effect in every condition of the world of existence.  AB11558

How blessed is one who shareth breath with the angel and divine messenger, receiveth heavenly inspiration, and is quickened by the breath of the All-Merciful.  AB08384

...that of the Holy Spirit which you breathe forth through the Word...when you breathe forth the breath of the Holy Spirit from your hearts into the world...   ABU3176

Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the Breath of the Holy Spirit  AB11118

Whosoever attaineth unto it and taketh hold of it through divine strength is mentioned before the Throne as being among the dwellers of the most exalted Paradise.  BH10376

Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit, are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the Breath of the Holy Spirit  AB07139

You must definitely continue conducting this gathering and give it importance so that day by day it may expand and be quickened by the breaths of the Holy Spirit.   AB06394

They shall surge like the waves of the sea and, like a luminous star in the ethereal horizon, shall beam with light and be inspired by the breath of the Holy Spirit.  AB08756

But the essential thing is that the heart is associated with your remembrance and filled with sweetness, and this comes from the musk-laden breath of the Holy Spirit.  AB01744

In this age, Baha'u'llah has breathed the Holy Spirit into the dead body of the world. Consequently every weak soul is strengthened by these fresh divine outbreathings.  ABU2682

It is my ardent hope that the power of the Holy Spirit may turn that country into a paradise and that the effulgent rays of the Sun of Truth may illumine that territory  AB04766

Verily, I address thee with a heart overflowing with the love of God... Indeed thou wilt see the teachings of God spread in those regions by the breath of the Holy Spirit   AB05980

He has breathed into you the breath of the Holy Spirit. He has baptized you with the water of life, with the fire of the love of God, and with the spirit of His knowledge.  AB12281

While We were inhaling the holy fragrances, the sea grew calm and the Ark came to rest upon it - though this Sea, by God, its waves shall never be stilled unto all eternity.  BH02563

Then there is the Light of the Holy Spirit possessed by God's Chosen Ones. The minds of men cannot comprehend this Light -- thus they martyr those who come with this Light.   ABU1930

But if thou desirest to teach the Truth of God and sleekest to promulgate the Word of God; that reqires the confirmation of the Holy Spirit and not the means of sustenance.   AB04210

These principles are finite and limited, but the Word of God comprehendeth all true principles, and deriveth moreover its enforcing power from the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB08144

Consider how the radiance of the light of the Holy Spirit doth illumine the court of the soul, that it bringeth about spiritual discoveries and produceth merciful attachment!  AB05272

Both letters brought joy to hearts, for the words of each were an eloquent tongue in the love of God and told of the attraction of the heart to the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB03697

Then the Spirit of Command descended yet another descent to cast upon the servants that which cannot be cast of the wisdom of eternity concerning what was concealed and hidden   BH03750

The Almighty will no doubt grant you the help of His grace, will invest you with the tokens of His might, and will endue your souls with the sustaining power of His holy Spirit.  AB11537

Whoever opens their tongue to teach with firm steps, steadfast resolve, spiritual attraction and ecstasy, and heavenly attention and devotion, the Holy Spirit will confirm them.   AB02439

"who breathe the spirit of life into all created things, who draw forth the swords of inner meanings and utterance, who charge against the ranks of ignorance and transgression..."  AB01289

At that time the inspiration of the Spirit will aid thee in understanding the realities, the mysteries, and the meanings of the Books of God, the All-Subduing, the Self-Subsisting.  AB11002

We must explain the Teachings orally so that the hearts may become like unto the pure fountains, the invisible inspirations may descend, the Bounties of the Holy Spirit may be revealed  ABU2052

"I sent to thee a letter few in words and full in its meanings and its mysteries, showing signs of good-tidings. By my life, there are manifested meanings in the mysteries of the words!"  AB06422

I ask God that thou wilt be so animated by the breaths of the Holy Spirit that thou wilt cause that region to become an Eden of Paradise and illumine many souls with the brilliant Light.  AB04813

But Baha'u'llah's teachings were spread through the power of the Holy Spirit...the teachings of Baha'u'llah were spread through the power of the Holy Spirit, not merely through utterance.  AB01819

Breathe with the Power of the Holy Spirit over this man and he will be freed from his foolishness. With the same breath of the Holy Spirit that I blew over the ignorant and he became wise   ABU1618

It is the breaths of the Holy Spirit that give eternal life. Thus if the human world is deprived of the spirit of religion, it is a lifeless body deprived of the breaths of the Holy Spirit   ABU0690

The outpouring of the Holy Spirit changes the small acorn into an over-shadowing tree and the showers of the heavenly clouds of mercy transform the black soil into a delectable rose-garden.  ABU3534

He has breathed in you the Breaths of the Holy Spirit. He has baptized you with the water of Life, the Fire of the Love of God and the Spirit of His Knowledge and ushered you into His Kingdom  AB04739

The flower needs light that it may achieve its fruitage; man needs the light of the Holy Spirit, and the measure of illumination throughout creation is proportionate to the different kingdoms.  ABU0902

A few souls have been resurrected from the graves of the world of nature, which is eternal death, and have been revived by the breaths of the Holy Spirit and have arisen to serve Thy Threshold.  AB00949

Today the Cup-Bearer of the Covenant, the Luminary of the horizons, bestoweth the manifestation of divine mercy from the invisible realm of the mighty Abha Kingdom and offereth the cup of bestowal.  AB01655

Now in this day the Baha'is are teaching the people with the same divine Power. They are baptized with the power of the Holy Spirit, have forgotten ego and are soaring toward the Kingdom of sanctity.   ABU1592

Such longing and rapture, such taste and joy have encompassed all that the breath of the Holy Spirit began to blow upon the decayed bones, and the Faithful Spirit came flying with the wing of success.   BH01489

for the breathings of the Holy Spirit will ultimately have their effect and will raise up souls in London who will become the lit candles of the human world and the bright stars in the horizon of reality  AB04793

Praise be to God that the hidden outpourings have encompassed the realm of existence from all directions, and the effulgent lights from the Abha Kingdom have illumined the sanctified spiritual realities.  AB08749

The world is like the human body and the Cause of God is like the spirit. Until the body has capacity, the spirit will not be manifested. The very appearance of the spirit is proof of the body's capacity.  ABU2839

the Faithful Spirit which is specific to the Most Exalted Word and the Supreme Pen, Muhammad the Messenger of God, peace be upon him, as God the Exalted said: "The Faithful Spirit descended upon your heart"  AB00479

The (Holy) Spirit is encompassing and surrounding all. It is holy. It is sanctified from attachment to a special place. It is present everywhere and at every time. It exists in all places, yet is placeless.  ABU3438

One should be alive, inhaling the fragrances of the Holy Spirit. Therefore Christ said, 'Let the dead bury the dead.' 'The one who is born of the flesh is flesh, but he who is born of the spirit is spirit.'  ABU1517

There is only one love which is infinite and unlimited and divine, and that is the love which comes with the Breath of the Holy Spirit - the Love of God - which breaks all barriers and sweeps all before it.  ABU0789

However, the spirit of faith, which is the light of guidance, and the Holy Spirit, which is the reality of divine revelation, both return in every dispensation and cycle to this realm of the first creation.  AB04973

O my God and my Beloved! Thou hast created a holy divine Tree, a blessed heavenly Lote Tree, a glorious eternal Tree. Thou didst plant it in the highest Paradise and establish it in Thy most glorious Garden.  AB03085

The Holy Spirit is given only to the Prophets; the people can only possess the rays of the Holy Spirit. Those who believe in God have four qualities - growth, sense, intellect, and spiritual or divine life.   ABU0960

The Holy Spirit is the outpouring grace of God which was revealed and manifested in the reality of Christ. Prophethood is the station of the heart of Christ, and the Holy Spirit is the station of His spirit.   AB00713

They are the body and Thou art the Life. The body is dependent for its life and freshness upon the Spirit--therefore they are in need of confirmation and long for the Breaths of the Holy Spirit in this new Cause!  AB03524

When man is abstracted from the conditions of this earthly world and be released from the fetters of the world of nature and be quickened through the Breaths of the Holy Spirit he shall become very much confirmed   ABU2053

It has often been observed that a learned and wise man has gone into a town but could not teach the Cause of God. On the other hand a simple man, attracted, holy, spiritual, divine is enabled to teach many souls.   ABU1793

Say: By God! The Sun of inner meanings and utterance hath risen from the horizon of this exalted heaven, and hath appeared upon the temple of the Youth. How wonderful is this Beauty, manifest, apparent, yet concealed!   BH01706

Every soul who is spiritually born - through the assistance of the Holy-Spirit - that soul which receives the Breath of the Holy Spirit will have an upward journey and attain to a lofty station in the spiritual world.   ABU1477

The teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH will give to the hearts the necessary impulse for bestowing eternal life and will cause the breeze of the Holy Spirit to waft upon you, so that with a single heart you will turn toward God.  ABU1723

through eloquent speech and fluent tongue and the confirmations of the Holy Spirit, expound the essence of divine explanation in such wise that the learned ones, the wise ones and the mystics of the earth will be amazed  AB02650

Convey my utmost kindness and praise to the maidservant of God Fuyo Mochizuki, that she may write with divine power, heavenly purpose and merciful intention, and that the breaths of the Holy Spirit may confirm her pen.   AB01899

The wonder-working rays of the radiant sun fall upon the dull earth, carrying there richness and glory. The earth alone is but a senseless clod; touched by the sun it becomes life, energy, budding and blossoming wealth.  ABU0904

You have heard the divine call and have been quickened by the breathings of the Holy Spirit. Through the breaths of the Holy Spirit ye have received life, ye have entered the eternal world and attained everlasting grace.  AB00600

The divine spirit which is from God's command refers to the holy power, divine confirmations, eternal assistance, divine knowledge and heavenly sciences with which God aids whomever He wishes among His righteous servants  AB00479

The ever-present efficacy of the Holy Spirit... So the Holy Spirit touches the heart of man and wakens him to eternal life. Like the sun to earth it brings to man warmth, energy and perfection. It gives him all possibilities.  ABU0904

The Holy Spirit hath freely given eternal life to every pure heart, and the souls became attracted through the effulgence of the Beauty of the Glorious Kingdom and through the brilliancy of the Light of Truth over all regions.  AB07817

the manifestation of the Kingdom depends on the penetration of the Word of God and the confirmation of the Holy Spirit - that is, it depends on the divine power that brings the dead to life, makes the blind see and the deaf hear  AB00801

Christ was born and realized through the Holy Spirit. Thus it becomes evident that the sacred reality - the true existence of every great one - has been realized through God and brought into being by the breath of the Holy Spirit.  AB01218

I supplicate for thee from the favors of the Lord of this glorious Age, and of this new Century, abundant confirmations so that thou mayest find at every moment a new spirit and be the recipient of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.  AB08547

Vivify thyself with breaths of the All-Merciful and refresh thyself with the inspirations of the Holy Spirit so that thou mayest be freed from the world of self and desire and find thy way to the bright worlds of light and guidance.  AB09200

But the grace of the Holy Spirit is the true criterion regarding which there is no doubt or uncertainty. That grace consists in the confirmations of the Holy Spirit which are vouchsafed to man and through which certitude is attained.  AB00520

thou wilt find thyself assisted by the angels of heaven and the hosts of the Supreme Concourse; thou wilt hoist the banner of peace and the sounds of the trumpet will be heard in the tunes of love and union throughout those countries  AB02146

Man cannot attain to the highest summit of human progress without the assistance of the Breaths of the Holy-Spirit. Therefore whosoever is confirmed with the Breaths of the Holy Spirit he will be assisted to confer a general education.  ABU2383

It is the Holy Spirit of God which insures the safety of humanity, for human thoughts differ, human susceptibilities differ. You cannot make the susceptibilities of all humanity one except through the common channel of the Holy Spirit.   ABU3406

The Holy Spirit speaketh through the innermost essence of the human tongue, God's Spirit which desireth communion with the human soul unfoldeth the truths, the Faithful Spirit writeth down and the Spirit of the Ancient of Days confirmeth.  AB06971

Verily, it changeth the earthly man into a heavenly one, the materialist into a spiritual being, the unenlightened into a reflection of the divine, and the satanic man into a godly person. It maketh the blind to see and quickeneth the dead.  AB10773

Verily it hath been sent down upon the Temple of the Youth in the heaven of immortality, then upon the Temple of the Command in the kingdom of glory, then in the form of a Tablet in this fashion which was witnessed from the direction of God.   BH05171

The Holy Spirit and the Word are the appearance of God and consist in the divine perfections that shone forth in the reality of Christ. And these perfections were with God, even as the sun which manifests the fullness of its glory in a mirror.  AB00316

Some souls who were outwardly ignorant, through this gift become learned ones. The weakest souls become the strongest. Many times a woman has surpassed a thousand men, or, rather, through this help could withstand all the people of the world.   ABU1511

It is the path of the Manifestation of the protection of the Holy Spirit. It is the road toward the life eternal. It is the road of being born from the world of materiality into the World Divine; and it is the world of baptism with the Holy Spirit.  ABU0930

Christ is the focal centre of the Holy Spirit; He is born of the Holy Spirit; He has been raised up by the Holy Spirit; He descends from the Holy Spirit--that is, His Reality does not proceed from the lineage of Adam but is born of the Holy Spirit.   AB00096

Verily, the weakness of body and its strength do neither harm nor benefit; nay, rather the spirit must be strong through the breath of the Holy Spirit, at this time, so that it may apprehend the consummate wisdom which is deposited in this great age.  AB07714

When the Lord Christ came He spread the light of the Holy Spirit on all around Him, and His disciples and all who received His illumination became enlightened, spiritual beings. The virtues of the human world come through the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0419

I hope that Mr. Dreyfus and Dr. Chevalier will be so confirmed by the favors of the Blessed Beauty to speak with eloquent and fluent tongue that they themselves will be amazed at their own utterance, for the breathings of the Holy Spirit will confirm them.  AB08811

That which encompasses all perfections is the breath of the Holy Spirit, which makes the earthly man heavenly, transforms the human into the divine, makes the dark luminous, changes the satanic into the merciful, makes the blind seeing, and brings the dead to life.  AB08089

This second set of circumstances occur through the power of the Holy Spirit. Thus it is that this Divine Cause can break the laws of this contingent world. It creates conditions that transcend the realm of materiality and are sanctified above the needs of this world.  AB08042

The power of the Holy Spirit makes every weak one strong. Observe how it exalted the abased people of Israel! It is this power which made a humble fisherman famed throughout the world, and turned the primitive tribes of the Arabian desert into the caliphs of the earth.  ABU3715

The Holy Spirit was always with Christ. It was hidden from others, but manifest to him. The story about the dove is simply a metaphor. No dove came down. Amongst the people, John the Baptist felt that the Holy Spirit was in Christ. The Holy Spirit was always with Christ.   ABU3339

The descent of the Holy Spirit is not like the entrance of air into the human body. It is a metaphor and an analogy rather than a literal image or account. That which is intended is like the descent of the sun into a mirror, that is, when its splendour is reflected therein.  AB03529

O God, give me a new life at every instant and bestow upon me the breaths of the Holy Spirit at every moment, in order that I may remain steadfast in Thy love, attain unto great felicity, perceive the manifest light and be in the state of utmost tranquility and submissiveness.  AB09479

O God, give me a new life at every instant and bestow upon me the breaths of the Holy Spirit at every moment, in order that I may remain steadfast in Thy love, attain unto great felicity, perceive the manifest light and be in the state of utmost tranquillity and submissiveness.  AB09479

O, Ye, the Sons of the Kingdom, the Holy Spirit hath uttered no one like you in the glorious Gospel, that a generous Prince hath spread a bountiful feast adorned with various gifts and bounties, and with all that one desires, that the hearts of the people of righteousness rejoice.  AB01032

"thank thou Him for that by reason of which He hath made thee wholly faithful in His Cause, kindled thy heart with the fire of the Testament, illumined thy mind with the light and conveyed unto thy spirit the glad-tidings of the breaths of the Holy Spirit in the world of effulgence"  AB04207

There is, however, another Spirit, which may be termed the Divine, to which Jesus Christ refers when He declares that man must be born of its quickening and baptized with its living fire. Souls deprived of that Spirit are accounted as dead, though they are possessed of the human spirit.  ABU0262

If they endeavor to fulfill these conditions, the Grace of the Holy Spirit shall be vouchsafed unto them, and that assembly shall become the center of the Divine bestowals, the hosts of divine confirmation shall come to their aid, and day by day they shall receive a new effusion of Spirit.  AB00394

The spirit has need of the Holy Spirit. If it is aided by the bounty of the Holy Spirit it will attain great power; it will discover realities; it will be informed of the mysteries. The power of the Holy Spirit is here for all. The captive of the Holy Spirit is exempt from every captivity.   ABU3086

It is only by the breath of the Holy Spirit that spiritual development can come about. No matter how the material world may progress, no matter how splendidly it may adorn itself, it can never be anything but a lifeless body unless the soul is within, for it is the soul that animates the body.  ABU0091

Thank the Almighty that you strive to enter God's Kingdom and desire life from the Holy Spirit. I hope that your greatest wish may be realized, then loosen your eloquent tongue and speak always of God. This is eternal life. This is heavenly sustenance. This is the breathing of the Holy Spirit.  AB12574

The Holy Spirit hath come to our aid and the Spirit of Faithfulness hath unsealed the significances of the Glorious Book. The garden and meadow are quickened by the Holy Spirit, which is the power of divine confirmation, and the Faithful Spirit is the interpreter of the meaning of the Glorious Book.  AB03086

To-day the light of truth is shining upon the world in its abundance. The breezes of the heavenly garden are blowing throughout all regions. The call of the kingdom is heard in all lands, and the breath of the Holy Spirit is felt in all hearts that are faithful. The Spirit of God is giving life eternal.  ABU1120

Therefore, it is evidenced that the promotion of the oneness of the kingdom of humanity, which is the essence of the teachings of all the Manifestations of God, is impossible except through the divine power and breaths of the Holy Spirit. Other powers are too weak and are incapable of accomplishing this.  ABU0275

The power of the Holy Spirit, enlightening man's intelligence, has enabled him to discover means of bending many natural laws to his will. The Holy Spirit will give to man greater powers than these, if only he will strive after the things of the spirit and endeavour to attune his heart to the Divine infinite love.  ABU0281

The world of humanity is in need of the confirmations of the Holy Spirit. True distinction among mankind is through divine bestowals and receiving the intuitions of the Holy Spirit. If man does not become the recipient of the heavenly bestowals and spiritual bounties, he remains in the plane and kingdom of the animal.  ABU0012

It influences the essence of all things. It is that which infuses life into the soul. It is the teacher of minds. It is the creative power. It gives eternal life. It is the educator of men. It is the centre of the graces of the Merciful God. It is the pure effulgence which dissipates the darkness of the world of men.   ABU0647

It has often occurred in Persia that an illiterate man (a Bahai) has taught the most scholastic men among the Divines. For teaching is dependent upon attraction. The teacher himself must be set aglow, attracted and zealous. If he possess these states, surely will he thereby attract the confirmation of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1137

The ancients strived greatly to establish means of education through the power of reason, but although philosophers [...] They educated themselves and a few souls, but they could not provide universal education. Every power is incapable of providing extraordinary universal education except the power of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0056

This general, universal development is not possible through the power of philosophy. It is only attainable through the pervading influence of the Holy Spirit. Therefore, no matter how far the world of humanity advances, it fails to attain the highest degree unless quickened by the education and divine bestowals of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1034

By the breaths and promptings of the Holy Spirit, which is light and knowledge itself. Through it the human mind is quickened and fortified into true conclusions and perfect knowledge. This is conclusive argument showing that all available human criteria are erroneous and defective, but the divine standard of knowledge is infallible.  ABU0300

This power alone can remove differences, warfare and strife from among the people inasmuch as the Congresses of Universal Peace and the unity of the races are radiant but are like the candle. A limited circle only do they illuminate, but the whole world is made radiant through the rise of the Sun of Truth and darkness is entirely dispelled.  AB06016

It is by the Confirmation of the Spirit. Think of an Oriental permitted to speak with utmost power in the churches, and his speech against the established doctrines, and allowed to demonstrate the validity of Baha'o'llah, the validity of Mohammed, in the center of the churches, and no opposition! THIS IS A MIRACLE. AN EXTRAORDINARY MIRACLE!   ABU2074

And they have angels who serve those therein by their Lord's leave, glorifying their Lord with praise, and they weary not night or day. God hath sent down no name but He hath sent down with it angels from heaven who glorify their Lord with praise for what He hath revealed unto them, testifying that there is no God but Him, the One, the Single.  BB00003

Today the dynamic energy of the Holy Spirit has poured in such volume through the Messenger of God that even the masses of men have received it, and that was not possible before. Always in the past specially sensitized souls received the influence and acted upon it. But today for the first time the minds of all people have been touched by the spirit  ABU3667

But when spiritual power emerged and the light of prophethood shone forth, a mighty resurrection occurred and an intense stirring appeared in veins and nerves. Thus in a brief period it raised those dull people from the lowest depths of abasement to the heights of glory. Iran and Turan were conquered, and the Roman Empire was humiliated and overthrown.   AB00196

But the only power that is capable of delivering man from this captivity, is the power of the breaths of the Holy Spirit. The attraction of the power of the Holy Spirit is so effective that it keeps men ever on the path of upward ascension. The malevolent forces of no enemy will touch those sanctified souls who have made this universal power their guide.  ABU0213

O thou who art illumined by the light of divine guidance! I have chanted the verses of thy gratitude to God for having guided thee unto His Kingdom, enlightened thy vision with the light of guidance, baptized thee with the water sent down from heaven and with the fire kindled in the Tree of Sinai, and with the Holy Spirit that quickeneth hearts and souls.  AB10696

The grace which is between the Creator and the created is Love. The intermediary of that grace of God is the Holy Spirit. If there were no love, there would be no communication between God and created beings. Were there no light, there would be no communication between the sun and the earth. The intermediary of these graces and benefits is the Holy Spirit.  ABU0565

O thou who art gladdened by the divine fragrances! I send thee greetings and praise with a heart overflowing with the love of God and with utmost joy I bring thee the glad tidings that thy dear ones and all those associated with thee have been honored to circumambulate the Supreme Concourse and have inhaled the sweet fragrances of God from the blessed white spot  AB01767

In this estate he becomes a centre for receiving the power of the Holy Spirit. In this estate his spirit bears to the Holy Spirit the relation which, before, his body bore to his spirit. He becomes like a polished mirror. When he speaks, he gives forth the rays of the Sun of Reality. All the light which is reflected from this mirror is the light of the Holy Spirit.  ABU0464

Through divine guidance thou shouldst transform the wicked dispositions to become virtuous and every lowly character to become sublime. Thou shouldst refresh the withered hearts and quicken the souls who are dead. The one who from time immemorial hath been blind should be endowed with everlasting discernment and the one who is sore-sick come to receive a speedy remedy.  AB05118

But if he be imbued with spiritual qualities, be educated in accord with celestial standard and receive a goodly portion of the ideal Graces - he will be freed from the captivity of the rules of nature, step out of the environment of darkness into the world of light, be released from the defects of matter and endued with the perfections and virtues of the Kingdom of God.  ABU0779

Material development may be likened to the glass of a lamp, whereas divine virtues and spiritual susceptibilities are the light within the glass. The lamp chimney is worthless without the light; likewise, man in his material condition requires the radiance and vivification of the divine graces and merciful attributes. Without the presence of the Holy Spirit he is lifeless.  ABU0024

Thy name hath been inscribed in the book of the daughters of the Kingdom, and supplication was offered to the Self-Subsisting Lord that thou mayest be gathered in the assemblage of humanity with seeing eyes, hearing ears, an eloquent tongue and a heart attracted to the Holy Spirit, and that thou mayest become the cause of the life of souls and the salvation of the heedless.  AB03464

Baha'u'llah teaches that the world of humanity is in need of the breath of the Holy Spirit, for in spiritual quickening and enlightenment true oneness is attained with God and man. The Most Great Peace cannot be assured through racial force and effort; it cannot be established by patriotic devotion and sacrifice; for nations differ widely and local patriotism has limitations.  ABU0051

The human spirit with the spirit of the celebration of God's unity by all things. For example, should a faithful sit on a land, the spirit of that land would attain utmost tranquillity and delight. On the other hand, should a non-believer sit thereon, it would be sore-vexed to such a degree that none can reckon it but God, and it ceaselessly beseecheth God to remove him therefrom.  BB00001

The human spirit hath a wonderful power and strength, but it must be reinforced by the Holy Spirit. Whatever else thou hearest is mere imagination. But if it is confirmed by the grace of the Holy Spirit, it will show forth a marvelous power, discover realities, and become aware of mysteries. Direct all attention to the Holy Spirit, and invite everyone to this orientation. Then you shall witness wonderful effects.   AB00152

those whose eyes are opened by the outpouring of the Spirit of God. Thou shalt behold men-servants and maid-servants of Baha' in those far-distant lands and wide countries, speaking the secrets of the Gospel and the mysteries of the Bible and the allusions of the Koran and the explanation of the Words of the Merciful One. Those are the servants to whomsoever God hath assigned His mercy which overfloweth the existence.  AB05900

Man cannot free himself from the onslaught of vain and selfish desires save through the confirming grace of the Holy Spirit. That is why it is said that baptism must be with the spirit, with water and with fire, that is, with the spirit of divine grace, the water of knowledge and life, and the fire of the love of God. It is with this spirit, this water and this fire that man must be baptized, that he may partake of everlasting grace.  AB00674

The sanctified realities of the Manifestations of God have two spiritual stations: One is that of the state of divine manifestation, which can be compared to the orb of the sun, and the other is that of radiance and revelation, which may be likened to the divine light and perfections--the Holy Spirit. For the Holy Spirit is the manifold grace and perfections of God, and these divine perfections are even as the rays and heat of the sun.  AB01521

"I had the desire that the fragrance of the Holy Spirit, which hath perfumed all regions and imbued the entire body of the world with the Spirit of Life, should pass over thee and abide with thee. Notwithstanding the high position it occupieth, still, with an eloquent tongue, through which the Spirit moveth, hearts are attracted and bosoms burn, it speaketh to the pure hearts and to the good and righteous souls in every spot of the earth."  AB02799

Thus it became evident that those souls who are assisted by the Holy Spirit have perfect influence, to such a degree that they renew the world, bestow eternal life, illumine East and West, and their power and influence is unlimited--indeed, two thousand years pass and it still endures. But if a person is not assisted by the Holy Spirit, no matter how learned they may be or how much they may have founded schools of philosophy, their movement remains limited.  ABU0031

By the Holy Spirit is meant the outpouring grace of God and the effulgent rays that emanate from His Manifestation. Thus Christ was the focal centre of the rays of the Sun of Truth, and from this mighty centre--the reality of Christ--the grace of God shone upon the other mirrors which were the realities of the Apostles. The descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles means that that glorious and divine grace cast its light and splendour upon their realities.   AB01290

Be not dormant or torpid but let your hearts be ignited and kindled with a great fire. Be not saddened and disconsolate but let your souls surge with excitement and enthusiasm. Be the signs of the one true God and verses of divine unity; be trees in the garden of His bounty and fruits in the tree of His gifts, for He is the Lord of perfection! Be manifestations of the loving providence of the Blessed Beauty that the power of His Holy Spirit may confirm you at all times.  AB01664

But the fourth kind is when healing is brought about through the power of the Holy Spirit. This depends neither upon physical contact, nor upon sight, nor even upon presence: it is not dependent upon any condition. Whether the disease be mild or severe, whether there be contact between the bodies or not, whether a connection be established between patient and physician or not, whether the patient be present or not, this healing takes place through the power of the Holy Spirit.  AB00380

But those souls who were assisted by the Holy Spirit achieved such influence that multitudes rushed to the field of sacrifice through the effect of their words. Those who outwardly had no learning, like Peter who was a fisherman--he had neither knowledge nor learning, was illiterate, and was even so unlearned that he could not keep count of the Sabbath days--yet when he was assisted by the breathings of the Holy Spirit, what influence and effect he achieved in the world of existence!  ABU0031

For the Holy Spirit is like unto the life in the human body, which blends all differences of parts and members in unity and agreement. Consider how numerous are these parts and members, but the oneness of the animating spirit of life unites them all in perfect combination. It establishes such a unity in the bodily organism that if any part is subjected to injury or becomes diseased, all the other parts and functions sympathetically respond and suffer, owing to the perfect oneness existing.  ABU0093

In the teaching of Baha'u'llah, it is written: 'By the Power of the Holy Spirit alone is man able to progress, for the power of man is limited and the Divine Power is boundless.' ... The influence of the wisest philosophers, without this Spirit Divine, has been comparatively unimportant, however extensive their learning and deep their scholarship... We understand that the Holy Spirit is the energizing factor in the life of man. Whosoever receives this power is able to influence all with whom he comes into contact.  ABU0416

So is the work of the Holy Spirit in your hearts. The earthly sun is like the Sun of Truth; the rain is the shower of the mercy of God; the seed is the word of God; the air is the fragrant waves of His Holy Spirit and the soil is the hearts of the people. Now the spiritual seeds are being scattered throughout the world and the showers of the mercy of God are falling on the hearts of the people. The result will be a great and wonderful harvest and every tree and branch and scrub will bear fruit, and you will see it.   ABU0893

"Unless the Holy Spirit become intermediary, one cannot attain directly to the bounties of God. Do not overlook the obvious truths, for it is a self-evident fact that a child cannot be instructed without a teacher, and knowledge is a bounty from the bounties of God. The soil is not covered with grass and green without the rain of the cloud; therefore the cloud is the intermediary between the divine bounties and the soil. A body doth not develop and grow without the soul; therefore the soul is the medium of the spiritual life."   AB00661

The third power of man is the power of the Spirit. It is an emanation from the Divine Bestower. It is the effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the radiation of the celestial world. In short it is the essence of the Spirit of Faith of which His Holiness Christ speaks when He says, "Those that are born of the flesh are flesh and those that are born of the spirit are spirit." The spirit is the axis around which the eternal life revolves. It is conducive to everlasting glory; it is the cause of the exultation of the world of humanity.   ABU0655

In conclusion, these few words are written, and unto everyone they will be a clear and conclusive evidence of the truth. Ponder them in thine heart. The will of every sovereign prevaileth during his reign, the will of every philosopher findeth expression in a handful of disciples during his lifetime, but the Power of the Holy Spirit shineth radiantly in the realities of the Messengers of God, and strengtheneth Their will in such wise as to influence a great nation for thousands of years and to regenerate the human soul and revive mankind.  AB00020

The Holy Spirit is the only power which will ultimately unite and harmonize the races and nations of the world. The power of the Holy Spirit is necessary to carry into execution these noble thoughts of the age. But the divine power unites nations and peoples and cements together in the bond of brotherhood and peace for ages and cycles. Through the effect of the Holy Spirit he was enabled to unite many nations and religions under the standard of Christianity. Such spiritual victories are dependent upon the breaths and bestowals of the Holy Spirit.   ABU1247

There is still another power which is differentiated from that of the soul and mind. This third power is the spirit which is an emanation from the divine bestower; it is the effulgence of the sun of reality, the radiation of the celestial world, the spirit of faith, the spirit His Holiness the Christ refers to when he says, "Those that are born of the flesh are flesh, and those that are born of the spirit are spirit." The spirit is the axis round which the eternal life revolves. It is conducive to everlasting glory and is the cause of the exaltation of humanity.   ABU0586

The Holy Spirit is the Light from the Sun of Truth bringing, by its infinite power, life and illumination to all mankind, flooding all souls with Divine Radiance, conveying the blessings of God's Mercy to the whole world. The earth, without the medium of the warmth and light of the rays of the sun, could receive no benefits from the sun. Likewise the Holy Spirit is the very cause of the life of man; without the Holy Spirit he would have no intellect, he would be unable to acquire his scientific knowledge by which his great influence over the rest of creation is gained.   ABU0773

Deprived of the Holy Spirit and its bounties, man is spiritually dead. Children, for instance, no matter how good and pure, no matter how healthy their bodies, are, nevertheless, considered imperfect because the power of intellect is not fully manifest in them. When the intellectual power fully displays its influences and they attain to the age of maturity, they are considered as perfect. Likewise, man, no matter how much he may advance in worldly affairs and make progress in material civilization, is imperfect unless he is quickened by the bounties of the Holy Spirit.   ABU0100

Ask God that you may be reinforced by the breaths of the Holy Spirit, so that you become independent of all these indicators, evidence and powers, for those breaths are a force that has control over the reality of things and has such influence that it brings the dead to life, makes the blind see and the deaf hear - meaning it causes ignorant souls to enter the divine stream of knowledge, grants existence to absolute nothingness, guides the destitute to endless wealth, makes the dark night manifest light, and places the crown of knowledge on the head of absolute ignorance.   AB00431

Now observe how weak and manifestly false is this statement. First, He says If I go not away, He will not come, which indicates that the Comforter did not exist in the time of Christ and would come later. But the Holy Spirit was ever inseparable from Christ. Therefore it has no meaning to say If I go not away, He will not come. Secondly, He states that there are many things which ye cannot bear to hear, but that Holy Spirit will declare them and guide unto all truth. Now consider that among Christians the Holy Spirit is the third person and the Spirit of God, Christ, is the second person.  AB00173

It is evident that a great power must rescue man from these impurities and cause him to attain higher degrees of development. This great power is that of the Holy Spirit. It is the divine power which transforms a stone into a diamond, which changes darkness into light, which saves man from the world of defects and enables him to attain the world of virtues. This is possible only through baptism by the Holy Spirit. All the manifestations of God have rescued man from the contamination of the world of darkness, and have caused him to gain the real purification through the power of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1421

Christians have always believed that this refers to the Holy Spirit. How can this be? The Holy Spirit was already in the world. He came in Jesus when He was born. The Holy Spirit is a spirit; not a man with ears. The Holy Spirit was always upon Jesus. At thirty years of age He was baptized and John saw the dove descend upon Him. The Holy Spirit upon the disciples was like the rays of the sun. Jesus was the Sun and His rays shone upon His disciples through His teachings. It permeates a soul or mind spiritually. The Holy Spirit in the disciples was the spirit or essence of the truth which they taught.   ABU0601

When the Sun of Reality shed its endless bounties from the Dawning-Point of all desires, and this world of being was lit with that sacred light from pole to pole, with such intensity did it cast down its rays that it blotted out the Stygian dark forever, whereupon this earth of dust became the envy of the spheres of heaven, and this lowly place took on the state and panoply of the supernal realm. The gentle breeze of holiness blew over it, scattering abroad sweet savours; the spring winds of heaven passed by it, and over it, from the Source of all bestowals, were wafted fruitful airs that carried boundless grace.  AB00034

The divine spirit is a radiance from the lights of the Sun of Reality and a manifestation of the divine realm in the human realm, an emanation of eternal bounties and everlasting life. It is a sign from among the brilliant signs and an inspiration from the merciful inspirations. The Holy Spirit is the manifestation of divine mysteries and the holy, luminous reality emanating divine perfections upon human spirits. It is a brilliant, shining light upon the horizons, dispelling all darkness occurring in contingent reality, quickening spirits, sanctified from similitudes, eternal in essence, everlasting in attributes.  AB00709

The fifth degree of spirit is the Holy Spirit, which is the mediator between God and His creation. It is like a mirror facing the sun: Just as a spotless mirror receives the rays of the sun and reflects its bounty to others, so too is the Holy Spirit the mediator of the light of holiness, which it conveys from the Sun of Truth to sanctified souls. This Spirit is adorned with all the divine perfections. Whensoever it appears the world is revived, a new cycle is ushered in, and the body of humanity is clothed in a fresh attire. It is like the spring: when it arrives it transports the world from one condition to another.   AB00266

The breaths of the Holy Spirit so transform humans that their character is completely changed, they experience a second birth, and they are baptized by the fire of the love of God--which is love for all creation--and by the water of eternal life and the Holy Spirit. The ancient philosophers who devoted their utmost effort to improving morals and strived with heart and soul could only improve their own morals, not universal morals. Consult history and this will become clear and evident. But the power of the Holy Spirit improves universal morals, illumines the human world, bestows true exaltation, and educates all humanity.  AB00158

As for the heavenly spirit, it is a holy essence, a perfect word, a complete sign, the mystery of existence, and the reality hidden from the eyes of all beings. It is the Supreme Pen, the Most Merciful Soul, and the manifestation of Truth from the dawning-place of creation and its sun at the point of invention. This is specifically for the Prophets in the worlds of creation. BH01497
