"the outpouring of grace descendeth like torrential rain"   BH06165

The Bounty of God is within the heart; it receives the Light  ABU3088

The rays of love having shone from the True One unto the creation  AB10780

The fragrance of God emanated and his divine Spirit conferred life.  AB10295

the confirmations of the Holy Spirit are descending like unto torrents  ABU2682

the Ancient Outpouring that encompasses all and the Great Perfect Bounty  AB12164

The soul is a divine emanation while the body is an earthly composition.   AB11515

The ocean of grace hath been stirred by the winds of the Will of your Lord  BH05840

found the fragrance of the Garment when it was wafted throughout the worlds  BH08583

the divine outpourings and lordly effulgences in this mighty Cycle and new Age   AB07114

He hath made the world a new world and graced all creation with boundless bounty  AB05264

Through one emanation of this Love, the world of existence has come into being.   ABU3084

emanating from the sublime horizon of existence hath illumined the contingent world  AB10549

When the heavenly flood flows forth, each valley receives according to its capacity  AB03613

His teachings, which are the lights of the Sun of Reality, have illumined the horizons  AB07573

The ancient bounty is all-encompassing and the favor of the Generous Lord is perfect.   AB05065

the lights of the emanations of the Sun of Truth will shine forth and radiate within it  AB07054

The infinite bounty and the dawning splendors have encompassed the horizons of the world  AB10847

through Whom the mysteries were revealed and the rivers flowed and the trees spoke forth   BH05645

when they deny the outpouring from this Dawning Cloud that is exalted, mighty and luminous  BH11380

The radiance streaming forth from this point of dawn is like a lamp in this material world.   AB06300

These favors in the gifts of the Pre-existent Beauty are easier than the twinkling of an eye   AB07464

This is a Tablet revealed in truth, from whose horizon has shone forth the sun of God's bounty  BH05896

When the divine spring is over and the heavenly bounty ceases, the trees of being lie dormant.  ABU2228

and the clouds of the bounties of the Abha Kingdom have watered both the unseen and seen realms  AB06513

through a single drop from the ocean of His generosity brought the world of existence into being  BH04698

created things have emanated from that True Existence. Thus created things are from Him, not Him.  ABU1537

Verily We have sent down the Remembrance, and God and His angels were thy guardians, by the truth.  BB00002

The atoms of existence are in motion and the drops of the sea of being are in waves and blessing.   AB04764

That manifestation of the Lord of Hosts / Showed His face on Mount Zion / Carmel raised its calls   AB04402

The ray of the sun consisteth of the union of light and heat, that is to say, two realities exist.  AB09782

From My Most Exalted Pen there hath flowed forth in thy name the Euphrates of mercy and knowledge.   BH09123

The Luminous Beauty has turned toward the Mount of knowledge, and upon reaching its highest station   BH05006

This is naught but from the divine outpourings that have encompassed all things from every direction.  AB07636

Ancient outpourings are like a surging sea and the lights of the All-Merciful like a brilliant star.   AB06121

He came with the hosts of inspiration, but the manifestations of vain imaginings turned away from Him   BH04812

He it is Who hath sent down these verses from His presence in truth as glad tidings to all the believers.  BB00002

The heavenly food hath been sent down from the heaven of divine favor in such wise as to astound all beings  BH06752

Exalted is the Outpourer Who hath caused a pulsing force to flow through the arteries of contingent being.   AB05914

the waves of the divine ocean crash upon the shores of existence and scatter the pearls of grace and favor   AB06204

Again there is the giver of the bounty, the receiver of the bounty and the bounty which is the Holy Spirit.  ABU2649

Glorified be He Who hath sent down the Spirit upon thy heart that thou mayest be numbered among the warners.  BB00516

When the light of the Absolute cast a ray upon the world of contingent beings, it illumined the human world.  AB10418

The rain-cloud of grace is ever-showering, and the candle of the night-realm of bounty is ever-diffusing its rays  AB07790

Know that every mighty matter in the world of existence has a center, and the outpouring emanates from that center.  AB07528

through the outpourings of Thy infinite sea bestow freshness and grace upon all created things in the contingent world  AB08395

At the dawn of eternity, the Most Great Luminary, the Ancient Beauty, shed its radiance upon the kingdom of the world.  AB04816

Praise be to God Who hath quickened all created things through what hath sprinkled upon them from the ocean of His Name  BH01800

The fragrances of revelation of the Lord of Names and Attributes have perfumed the worlds of the unseen and the visible   BH08521

the brilliant lights from the Kingdom of the Invisible Reality are shining upon the eastern and western horizons of truth   AB04463

"in the affairs of the Kingdom thou mayest follow the inspiration and the teachings of God and not any human suggestion."   AB08842

The breezes of the All-Merciful have wafted from the direction of the Ridvan, and souls have been stirred by their stirring  BH06228

wherein the Sun of Thy loving-kindness dawned from the horizon of Thy Will and was established upon the throne of Thy mercy   BH07111

The ocean of infinite favors has surged so high that the shores of creation have been saturated with its boundless effusion.   AB04779

O you who are enchanted by the Face of the Friend! Whatever exists is from Him, and whatever you see is a sign of His bounty.  AB03324

Glorified is He Who hath showered upon the gardens of hearts the outpourings from the clouds of grace, generosity and bounty!  AB05373

"didst grow and develop beneath the Lote-Tree of the utmost boundary through the outpourings of the clouds of the Abha Kingdom"  AB05839

And if thou asketh about the infinite bounties of the Abha Kingdom, it is the outpouring of the limitless all-encompassing sea.  AB06222

"the Reality outpouring upon all contingent being" and "sent down from His Kingdom blessed water upon the earth of capabilities"  AB06549

The effulgences of the All-Merciful Lord of humanity have illumined and brightened the horizon of the world with infinite bounty  AB05835

All contingent beings are manifestations and mirrors receiving this effulgence. Though the Bestower of Grace is mighty and powerful  AB10826

He is the One Who bestoweth authority upon whomsoever He willeth among His servants. There is no God but God, the Strong, the Mighty.  BB00009

Thus have We wafted unto thee a breath from the breezes of the All-Merciful that thou mayest inhale the fragrance of the Most Merciful  BH06724

It is clear and evident that there hath never been, nor shall there ever be, any interruption in the outpouring of the All-Bountiful.   BH04950

The infinite favors of God have encompassed all created things, and their manifestations are dependent upon their effort and endeavor.  BH03220

Thereupon he entered into the depths of the oceans of the Divine Essence before the surging of the Verses of Thy glorious sovereignty.   BH02781

For the divine outpourings are the candle of that gathering and the manifestations of the All-Merciful are evident in that assemblage.   AB07007

"Unceasing, His breezes blow soft over us, Unceasing, His ambergris wafts towards us" and "The waves of the ocean of truth billow high"  AB06483

Praised be to He Who hath breathed life into His creation through the breaths of those who bow down in worship in His first emanation!   AB01880

Infinite bounties have encompassed all, and successive effulgences have unveiled themselves. The lights have illumined both East and West  AB03753

through whom the ocean of Thy knowledge surged amidst Thy creation and the fragrance of Thy loving-kindness wafted throughout Thy dominion  BH06701

Although the essences of created things exist through the reflection of His light, alas they are unaware of Him and without fruit or trace  AB04442

All the saplings of the world have appeared from one Tree, and all the drops from one Ocean, and all beings owe their existence to one Being.  BH11459

bestowing infinite bounties upon the dawning-places of creation. It shed its radiance upon every spot and showered its grace upon every land.  AB07520

Divine guidance and compassionate favors and spiritual outpourings from the Lord are purely of the bestowals of sheer gift and absolute grant  AB06164

Today all created things are growing and moving through the outpourings of the Most Great Name, and are drawing sustenance and being stirred.   AB06221

This Eastern star has a luminous procession from the elemental world, and that Divine Luminary has a penetrating ray from the spiritual realm   AB02601

A breeze of immortality wafteth in this Day from the mortal kingdom, 'Cause a musky scent breatheth from the musk-pod of His enrapturing Call.   BH02479

He adorned the new universe with boundless radiance and shone forth like the brilliant sun. He became like the cloud of January and rained down  AB09894

This bounty shall, through the outpouring of the rain of divine gifts, render the surface of the earth verdant and flourishing, fresh and green.  AB08293

Praise be to God, whose outpourings have encompassed all...and from the clouds of whose bounty copious rain and abundant grace have poured forth  AB04227

His aid and grace can transform a weak bird into an eagle of the Supreme Concourse and an insignificant atom into a star of the ethereal sphere.  AB03363

Today the true Beneficent One is manifest, and the sea of bounty is surging, and the effulgences of the Sun of generosity are visible and evident  BH07478

and the breezes of grace have wafted from the source of bounty, and rock and clod and tree have been blessed by the favors of the Lord of destiny  AB04814

The loving-kindness and grace of the Divine Unity, and His bounty and tender mercy, encompass and pervade the entire created world like unto rain.  AB10889

I beseech Thee...by the pearls of Thy knowledge in the Kingdom of creation, and by the stars of the heaven of Thy Command in the Realm of eternity   BH09393

For the effulgence of light from the Dayspring of eternity has dawned upon the temples of those words, bringing forth equality without origination.  BB00089

He hath illumined and brightened the horizon of the human world through the celestial manifestations and divine outpourings and heavenly bestowals   AB06948

"The divine bounties are likened to water. He says We send down water from heaven. Rivers and streams flow according to their measure and capacity."   ABU1605

The Ocean of bounty is surging... and have received their portion from the dawning-rays of the Sun of Truth and the waves of the Sea of inner meaning   BH10797

Who through the attraction of the Most Exalted Word brought being out of utter nothingness, and from non-existence made manifest the signs of eternity  BH06134

That one causes the mixing, blending, growth and development of bodies, while this one causes the enkindlement, attraction, joy and delight of spirits  AB12058

He it is Who hath made our hearts repositories of His Command and our breasts vessels of His mystery by His power, and God is powerful over all things.  BB00002

Say: By God! This is a Day whereon the breezes of the All-Merciful have wafted, and the fragrance of musk hath been diffused from this glorious station.  BH04085

The ocean of grandeur hath been stirred by the winds that blow from the source of the supreme gift, casting the pearls of bounty upon the shores of hope  AB09708

The Ancient Beauty hath made the world of humanity the envy of the realm of dominion through the effulgent light of His revelation and manifest bounty.   AB08403

The rain of mercy bestows life upon all created things, even unto the pearls within the seashells of the sea which are connected to this boundless grace.  AB09486

All this is from the mines of Thy bounty, the treasuries of Thy grace, the wonders of Thy favor, the keys of Thy mercy, and the springs of Thy generosity.  BB00371

through Thy Name the All-Giving, take up a chalice of the water of life and, through Thy Name the All-Bountiful, pass it round among all contingent beings   BH10423

Thus did the earth of realities quiver and swell with the waters of revelation descending from the heaven of the Revealer, bringing forth every goodly kind.  AB07848

The seas of favor have surged, and have cast upon the shore of existence shells filled with pearls of light that gleam with the radiance of the Manifestation  AB11072

The ocean of grandeur hath been stirred by the winds that blow from the source of the supreme bounty, casting the pearls of bestowal upon the shores of hope.  AB09708

The doors of My favors, which from the beginning that hath no beginning until now had remained sealed, are now opened in truth by the finger of ancient glory.   BH01827

This is certainly so, for the sustenance of existence comes from the All-Bountiful. If sustenance from God did not reach existence, no created thing would move.  AB02907

Today the Kawthar of knowledge floweth from the Pen of the All-Merciful, and the Euphrates of mercy descendeth as rain from the heaven of the chosen One's grace.   BH04867

However, when the confirmations of the All-Merciful and the assistance of the Eternal shine forth in human reality, this becomes a source of glory and brings joy.  AB05735

Every created thing hath had and still hath a fragrance peculiar unto itself, and that fragrance is, in one sense, a messenger, inasmuch as it guideth men unto it.  BH07977

"God created from the Will an essence of volition with perfect potentiality therein. Then God created from that essence the five gardens and their seven precincts"   BB00318

The Most Great Unity hath manifested Its all-merciful effulgence, and hath made contingent existence a mirror reflecting the images of the realm beyond contingency.  AB07750

"The seas moved"--the seas of existence; the seas of life; the seas of sciences; the seas of knowledge; the seas of understanding; the Seas of the Love of GOD rolled.  ABU1942

Say: O people of the earth! Hearken unto the Word of Truth and hold fast unto it. Today the Euphrates of divine mercy is flowing and the Sun of favor is shining forth  BH06519

Thus the purpose of the world of creation is the realization of things through the bounty of existence, and this is among the requirements of divine grace and bounty   AB00538

For every matter there is an appointed time. When its hour comes, it appears with the truth and nothing can prevent it. Thus has it been ordained in a guarded Tablet.   BH01967

Through the movement of the Will, resplendent waves arose, and these waves in one station are His manifestations of Names and attributes that have encompassed the world.  BH00954

The combination of diverse elements through spiritual force in the contingent world is the cause of the manifestation and emergence of divine perfections and attributes   ABU2988

Likewise the divine qualities that were manifested from that Dawning-Place of heavenly bounties - those qualities too are the heavenly sustenance of the Incomparable Lord.  AB09334

As for the passage in the Iqan, it explains that those holy souls continuously receive outpourings and assistance from the Reality of Divinity and the All-Glorious Essence.   AB02443

It is the True Cup-bearer Who, from time immemorial and unto all eternity, hath bestowed and continues to bestow the choice wine of inner meanings upon the world of humanity.  BH01609

These are trees planted in the garden of Thy love, growing on the banks of the rivers of Thy bounty, verdant and fresh through the outpourings of the clouds of Thy guidance.   AB04627

We have brought forth for thee from the ocean of inner meanings the pearl of remembrance and utterance, that thou mayest give thanks unto thy Lord, the Lord of all religions.   BH00828

The outpourings are descending like torrential rain, and the manifestations of the Abha Beauty are succeeding and following one after another from the Dayspring of the Unseen.  AB10605


spread the fragrances of mysteries from Thy Most Glorious Kingdom and make the lights shine forth from Thy Supreme Heaven so that the horizons may remain fragrant and illumined   AB06751

all the atoms of contingent beings, from the most exalted summit to the lowest point, to rejoice and hath given them to drink of the wine of radiance and the sweet crystal water   BH10241

The Most Great Sea hath turned toward you, desiring to adorn the heart of your heart and the sight of your sight with My wisdom and utterance which lay hidden within its shells.   BH06349

Since the day when the Ancient Ocean began its Most Great outpouring and ceaseless surging, the waves of divine bounties have stormed the shores of existence from every direction  AB10333


When God created the Point, He caused it to descend to the worlds of existence openly and called it to approach by command. It answered the All-Merciful in humility and submission.  BB00325

the clouds of divine praise have poured down the rain of His glorification and the Sun of Truth hath beamed forth from the Sign of Leo in the utmost intensity of its supernal heat   AB06323

Existence is realized and possible through the bounty of God, just as the ray or flame emanating from this lamp is realized through the bounty of the lamp, from which it originates.  ABU0024

And the Hidden and Treasured One, Who was forever concealed in the divine treasury of infallibility, has in these days been made manifest - a bounty from His presence upon the world.  BH09178

By God, the ocean of grace has surged, and the fragrance of justice has wafted, and the sun of bounty has shone forth, and the clouds of generosity rain upon all who are in existence.  BH07759

The Ancient Beauty and the Most Great Name (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) in every moment shone forth with a hundred thousand lights and made His revelation manifest  AB05297

Wishing to reveal Thyself, Thou didst call into being the Greater and the Lesser Worlds, and didst choose Man above all Thy creatures, and didst make Him a sign of both of these worlds  BH01071

The cloud of mercy raineth down. The sun of bestowal blazeth and dazzleth. The wind of providence bloweth, and the fragrances of the Abha Paradise nourish souls in the North and South.  AB05512

In these days when the bounties of the All-Merciful have encompassed the kingdom of possibilities, and the favors of the Lord of Mercy have quickened all existence and contingent beings  AB07608

Dost thou not observe how the spring rain giveth life to the black earth, and maketh the withered tree green and flourishing? Nay more, it maketh the pure earth the envy of the heavens.  AB08778

O Lord! Deny me not the sweet-scented breezes of the garment of Thy Revelation, the fragrant emanations of the robe of Thy mercy, and Thy signs through which the winds of Thy grace pass   BH02419

God's Will prevails and His Purpose penetrates. We are as nothing; all that exists is Him. The reins of awareness are in His hands and the cord of knowledge is in the grasp of His power.  BH09363

In every moment He has ordained a favor, in every breath a gift, in every day a new spring, and in every evening a fulfillment. These bestowals and this endless bounty continue forever.   AB04892

O servant! Give thanks unto God for having manifested Himself unto thee yet again, that He might reveal unto thee the mysteries in the crystalline vesture within the Most Glorious Temple   BH04647

The breeze of the All-Merciful wafts from the gardens of eternity, and the radiant morn breaks from the horizon of inner meanings, and the call to awakening reaches from the Abha Kingdom   AB02748

The candle of My Beauty is the Sun of the horizons, and the sorrow of My heart is the cloud of creation, and My tears are the rain of the clouds, and My strength is the power of invention.  BH03853

Then it becomes manifest, clear as the sun at high noon, that grace extends its influences far and wide, and that the light emanating from the Sun of Reality illumines both stars and moons.  AB09682

Although in all degrees the bounties of the Ancient Living One descend like torrential rain and all atoms receive their share and portion from the manifestations of the names and attributes  AB05674

The outpouring of the Holy Spirit changes the small acorn into an over-shadowing tree and the showers of the heavenly clouds of mercy transform the black soil into a delectable rose-garden.  ABU3534

Praise be to God that in that land the life-giving breeze of holiness acts like a spring breeze, and wherever the April rain cloud passes, it bestows new life and grants boundless freshness.  AB06623

He sendeth down upon whomsoever He willeth among His creatures that which draweth him to the holy court, the dawning-place of a mighty Name. Say: His favor hath encompassed all created things  BH02869

The clouds of bounty are overflowing, and the outpouring of witnessed grace giveth life to both worlds. The sea of favors is surging with waves, and the waves of benevolence rise ever higher.  AB08129

Human reality is a divine trust, and the human world represents its natural emanations. That divine trust is a brilliant light, while these natural emanations are the darkness of the furnace.  AB04068

He hath caused us to reach the summit of heaven from the darksome pit in which we were. He hath enabled us to attain the apex of the realm of the Concourse from the nadir of our degradation.   AB05651

All that is infinite hath been created by One Who is infinite. Limitations are a characteristic of the finite, and restriction is a quality of existent things, not of the reality of existence.  AB00023

Say: In the ocean of truth naught is seen save God. Thus hath God chosen the Letters of Truth from among His creation, and in creation are mirrors of God wherein ye seek guidance from God, your Lord.  BB00004

This is a star that hath dawned from the horizon of Thy love, and this is a tree that hath grown in the gardens of Thy knowledge, and this is a branch that hath sprouted from the Tree of Thy singleness.   AB07167

Though the outpouring of spring rain may adorn meadow and plain and make mountain and valley verdant, the heavenly outpouring and the rain of divine mercy adorns the life-giving expanse of heart and soul  AB05265

And Adam was in the clay of love between the water and the light, and the spirits were walking in the air, and the holy temples were coursing through the heaven, and the souls were bewildered in the cloud  BH02137

The text describes how the "Sun of Truth shone forth with brilliant rays from the horizon of the placeless realm upon the world of contingent beings, and the Ancient Bounty encompassed this contingent world"  AB02559

The portals of His abundant grace have opened wide through the sustaining breaths of the Holy Spirit. The fragrant breezes of His life-giving bounty bringeth solace to the heart and comfort to the yearning.   AB01492

The infinite outpourings of divine grace have encompassed the world of existence and the realm of being, and the lights of sanctification of the Glorious Lord have illumined the horizons of contingent beings.  AB07616

In these days when the lights of the Abha Kingdom have encompassed the worlds of existence, and the waves of the Most Great Sea have filled the shores of contingent beings with the pearls of divine outpourings  AB08265

The dawning-places of creation are illumined by the lights of their beauty, and both the East and West of contingent being have become a rose-garden and flower-field through the outpourings of their perfection.  AB08529

Shedding its effulgent rays upon the East and the West, the North and the South, and all the horizons and regions of the world, it hath, through its bounteous grace, nurtured the realities of all created things  AB09275

these kindnesses are from the overflowing characteristics of the Lord of Clear Proofs upon the subtle realities of beings, which have received and continue to receive emanations from the all-encompassing Reality  AB06598

the outpourings from all directions have made the horizons the envy of the dawning-places of the celestial spheres and the object of admiration of the rising-points of the heaven adorned with the constellations   AB04834

The favors of God, like a boundless ocean, surge over His servants and handmaidens, and like the clouds of winter, quicken and refresh the flower garden and meadow of the hearts of those who are attracted to Him.  AB09573

by the wafting of the breezes of Thy grace whereby Thou didst quicken all created things and caused them to speak forth Thy praise, and didst bring forth all beings and shed upon them the lights of Thy countenance  BH09652

In the world of creation, this exalted station and lofty throne is the Most Great All-Embracing Reality - that is, the receiving of lights from the Lamp of Truth and the acquiring of fire from the Tree of Oneness.  AB08247

The Sun of generosity hath shone forth, and from that effulgence another effulgence appeared, and from that effulgence yet another became manifest, and from these effulgences the world became illumined and radiant.  BH00749

Whoso ponderth upon it, he would assuredly witness that the spirits of truth are generated within the inmost realities of the souls and the universe, by the Revelation of the Primal Point through the divine verses.  BB00001

His grace and generosity is a boundless ocean, surging with waves that engulf all created things in that tumultuous, billowing sea and cast forth the pearls of bestowal upon the shores of the hearts of the faithful  AB09632

O Lord! He drew sustenance from Thy perfect outpouring, Thy all-encompassing grace, and Thy radiant light, and his soul found peace in the rays of Thy countenance spread across the horizons on the Day of Radiance.   AB05935

The divine springtime came and infinite bounty descended. The cloud of mercy bestowed eternal grace and the Sun of Truth shone from the sign of Cancer. The realm of existence appeared like a garden in the universe.  AB01512

Inasmuch as the Sun is bound to shine forth forever, those mirrors will never cease to seek reflection in their own limited stations. The effulgence of God hath never been and will never be interrupted or exhausted.  BB00001

Love is an outpour from God, and is pure spirit. It is one aspect of the Logos, the Holy Spirit. It is the immediate cause of the laws which govern nature, the endless verities of nature which science has uncovered.   ABU0343

The breezes of God have wafted with a new spirit over the gardens of earth and heaven, and the heat of the Sun of Truth hath intensified upon every goodly plant and delicate tree growing in blessed soil from every region.  AB09004

The leaves of the world, in nights and days, are speaking in remembrance of the Divine Lote-Tree and yearning for His presence. The queens of the world each day speak His praise in their temples and are enkindled with His love  BH06076


Rays of sunlight, the heat of the sun, or the falling rain of divine bounty are bestowed unconditionally and without any ulterior motive. In the same manner, a Baha'i must be the manifestation of divine generosity and charity.   ABU1168

The world of contingent beings is the dawning-place of the lights of the All-Merciful's bounty...The Farmer of Divine Providence has scattered the seeds of reality in the field of existence and watered them with eternal bounty.   AB05883

Thus doth God bring into being whatsoever He willeth by His command. Verily He is powerful and mighty. Blessed be He before Whom prostrate themselves all who are in the heavens and who are on earth, and unto Him shall all return.  BB00004

the bounty of love is one of the Divine bounties which comes to man from God; just as the sun when it sends its rays to the mirrors and thereby the mirrors are illumined; this effulgence and splendor are from the bounty of the sun  ABU1197

What bounty and gift hath the Ancient Beauty bestowed upon His loved ones, that He hath taken them all beneath the shadow of His training, and hath dealt with them with all manner of kindness and favors from His Kingdom of Oneness  AB12561

God createth all things through a cause, and createth the cause through Himself. By the cause is meant the Primal Will, and by what is created through the cause is meant the conditions of that cause until the appearance of the end.  BB00003

God has distinguished His chosen ones with the greatest praise, and unified His gates in the knowledge of the supreme essences...The light is only in the two souls, the mystery only in the two names, and truth only in the two worlds  BB00244

Praise and glory be to the one true God Who adorned non-existence with the ornament of being, made manifest the non-existent through causes He created for His own bestowal, and ordained means for the expression of bounty in the world.  BH01032

When the light of the Morn of Divine guidance flasheth and glisteneth from the horizon of truth, the radiant heart of man partaketh of it through the Divine light, the lamp of His bounty beameth forth and sheddeth the light of Oneness  AB09042

He it is Who createth what He willeth by His command Be and it is. He it is before Whom boweth down in worship whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth and whatsoever lieth between them, and unto Him shall all return.  BB00004

reveal among the peoples the mysteries of the True One, which is the eternal bounty, that thou mayest obtain the greatest talisman and seek the honored square, and in that moment thou shalt gain mastery over the world of contingent being  AB09406

When He loved to make Himself known and be described with sanctification and transcendence, He created. He manifested through the lights of His Name, the Creator, and the abstract realities became determined in the world of the particles.  BH00380

If His outpourings until now came from all directions, now His bestowals are sanctified from directions. And if His lights before shone forth from the point of the circle of existence, now they are manifest from the entire circumference.   AB06230

When the Beloved of all horizons shone forth from the Dawning-Place of hopes, He bestowed upon the world and its peoples a ray from the reality of sanctification. That brilliant light encompassed all perfections and conferred all bounties.   AB04081


Thou didst send the winds of love from the right hand of Thy will and cause the rains of providence to descend from the clouds of the bounty of Thy generosity, and didst mix this living, life-giving sweet water with this holy, luminous earth  BH01926


Just at this time this light speaks with thine eye; the sun converses with the earth. In addresses it: 'I am most kind toward thee. I am pouring my rays upon thee. I am training thee. I am causing in thee the growth of flowers and hyacinths.'  ABU2268

From a single will the ocean of bounty came into being, and from one drop thereof the world of existence became manifest and creation appeared. By virtue of His pre-existing mercy and all-encompassing grace, He bestowed sight and granted awareness.  BH00723

Every deed that appeareth today purely for the sake of God is the king of deeds, and every goodly attribute that is manifested by anyone is and shall be the sovereign of attributes, inasmuch as this Day is associated with God, exalted be His glory.  BH07148

Its heat affects bodies and dispels the cold and moisture of the air. We hope that through the heat of the Sun of Truth which is rising and shining from the horizon of the Unseen, the cold and moisture of hearts and souls will likewise be dispelled  AB06062

through this universal and great abundance, the land of holy truth and facts hath moved and brought forth good and beautiful fruits of every kind. But the barren, wicked land will not bring forth save the thorn of denial, of haughtiness and disdain.  AB08362

If the bestowal of existence did not reach creation, "All that are therein are passing away." Despite the bestowal of existence, "each acts according to his own manner" and "We aid both these and those" and "the gift of thy Lord is not restricted."   AB04687

A ray from the manifestation of the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, struck the sun and it became world-illumining. It struck the ethereal star and it became a luminous moon. It struck the black stone and it became a brilliant diamond and a gleaming ruby.  AB10375

The light of the sun shineth upon all the world and the merciful showers of Divine Providence fall upon all peoples. The vivifying breeze reviveth every living creature and all beings endued with life obtain their share and portion at His heavenly board.  BH00223

The earth and what is therein are imaginations or reflections in mirrors or shades; but the bounty of the Kingdom and the gifts of the invisible world are the thoughts of the Merciful One, and the lordly radiances are immortal and constant and unending.   AB07025

If a candle illumines a gathering, the light of the Kingdom illumines the horizons. That is, when an effusion from the effusions of the Ancient Beauty is manifested in a reality, it moves the contingent world and bestows joy and delight upon the horizons  AB10154

The former became the expositor of mysteries, while the latter became the dawning-place of lights. The former adorned the kingdom of understanding, while the latter made the pole of existence and the realm of contingency the envy of the gardens of Paradise  AB05536

The divine Breeze is wafting by; the spirit of God is manifest...His Ancient Bestowal is descending...For the zephyr of the morn of Unity is blowing and the rays of the Sun of Reality are shining from all the horizons of the universe with universal force.   ABU1382

There is no God but Him. And then it is submitted that one such as yourself, who has appeared as a leaf of the divine Tree and as a fruit of the Pre-existent Lote Tree, and who has been nourished from the chalices of light and has drunk from the crimson cups  BH01381

At this morning hour, when the Light that shineth from the Abha Kingdom is shedding its splendour upon the regions of the world and the sweet savours of the Lord wafted from the Realms of Holiness are diffusing their fragrance amongst the holy ones on earth   AB03473

O rapture! O rapture! What glad tidings of sweet attraction, what life-giving messages of delight! For the Essence of Beauty wishes to remove the veil of Glory, and the Essence of Union desires to lift the curtain of similitudes from the peerless Countenance.  BH06763

When the lights of love shone forth from the Truth unto creation, His greatest signs were imprinted upon pure and luminous hearts, and the mirrors of hearts faced one another and reflected that manifest light. Thus did love appear from creation unto creation.  AB07785

The rays of the sun cause objects to appear. Light is not substance; it is that by virtue of which substances may be seen-it causes substances to appear. In the same way the illumination of God causes the essential reality of substance to become perceptible.   ABU1567

Emanational procession is like the procession of the handiwork from its author. For example, the writing proceeds from the writer. Now, just as the writing emanates from the writer and the discourse from the speaker, so does the human spirit emanate from God.  AB00316

I swear by the Divine Beauty that the bounty of the Most Glorious Beauty makes the barren tree fruitful and leafy, fills the world of darkness with light, makes the earthly bird celestial, and transforms the dusty being into one that is heavenly and merciful   AB07224

Say: By God, the Truth! There hath appeared that which hath never appeared like unto it in all creation, and verily it speaketh in all things, at all times, in every tone, saying: 'There is none other God but Me, the All-Compelling, the Mighty, the Beauteous.'  BH05848

God has created all things wisely and with a purpose. For everything He has ordered a heaven and a hell; its heaven is its place of high degree-of fulness, maturity, and perfection; its hell is its place of low degree - of meagreness, immaturity, imperfection.  ABU0927


The Mercy of the Blessed Perfection is like a seed in the heart. The Sower puts the seed into the ground so that it may come up and bear fruit. The ignorant man asks why a little seed is put into the ground. This is a purpose which the end or result alone shows.  ABU1236

receive your share from this boundless ocean of the grace of the divine King of Oneness, and partake of this table of everlasting favor which has encompassed all regions and been bestowed upon all atoms of existence according to the justice of the Worshipped One   BH04407

When thou ponderest deeply into the realities of things thou wilt see them all emanating from the reflections of God's names and attributes and the signs of Him Who shineth from the Sinai Mount - names and attributes which are entrusted in the realities of things.  AB08921

The procession of creation from God is a procession through emanation; that is, creation emanates from God, it does not manifest Him. The connection is that of emanation and not of manifestation. The light of the sun emanates from the sun, it does not manifest it.  AB00876

Although in past dispensations and Cycles the power of Love had a penetration and the light of Love an appearance yet in this blessed Century the Sun of Reality has bestowed such an outpouring of Love that the human world has received another impetus and movement.  AB03586

Such is the ocean of creation wherefrom floweth sweet water, pleasant to them that drink, and from it God createth the flesh of such birds as ye desire. Such is the ocean of creation with God, and verily the ocean of truth hath no third between God and His creation.  BB00004

every luminous essence and divine reality to receive the outpourings of the rain-clouds of His mercy, to roar like lions in the thickets of His bounty, to swim like fish in the pools of His grace, and to warble like nightingales in the gardens of His loving-kindness  AB09667

When thou ponderest deeply into the realities of things thou wilt see them all emanating from the reflections of God's names and attributes and the signs of the One Who shineth from the Sinai Mount - names and attributes which are entrusted in the realities of things.  AB08921

Creation is an emanation from the creator. It is impossible that the eternal should become limited. Creation is like the sunlight; God is the sun. This light comes forth from the sun; that does not mean that the sun has become the light. The light emanates from the sun.  ABU0766

And this is but a drop from the oceans of Thy Self-Subsistence and an outpouring from the rains of Thy sanctity, that the sovereignty of Thy power might be manifested in the kingdom of identities and the dominion of Thy might might shine forth in the realm of infinitude.   BH08310

Thou didst cause the drop of my physical being to descend from the heaven of Thy good-pleasure to the earth of Thy nature, and didst nurture me through Thy generosity, grace, bounty, tenderness and favor until I reached that stage of life wherein thirty years had passed.   BB00117

From their elements appeared the elements, such that you see that from their fire appeared the fire in all realms of being, which spoke from the blessed Branch of Unity on the exalted Sinai to Moses the Interlocutor. From their water, every soul finds permanence and life.   BH00686

The materialists say that the appearance and emergence of things stems from interaction. Interaction exists in human existence, but this is under the supervision of the power of spirit. Similarly, interaction in this universe is under the supervision of a conquering power   ABU1833

As far as thou art able, make manifest among the peoples the mysteries of the True One, which is the eternal bounty, that thou mayest obtain the greatest talisman and seek the most honored square, and in that moment thou shalt gain mastery over the world of contingent being.  AB09406

Since the Divine Reality has manifestations of brilliant signs and traces in all worlds and stations, therefore in the world of archetypes and spiritual realities He made human reality the niche and glass for the light of Truth and manifested all names and attributes upon it  AB05563

His Holiness Moses, the Speaker with God, beheld the emanation of the light of the Divine Identity from the kindled fire in the green tree... Praise be to God that that divine kindled fire hath blazed forth in the blessed tree of humanity, neither of the East nor of the West  AB02584

And the All-Merciful hath called out from the unseen realm of creation upon the summit of the Kingdom: "O people of the mortal world! Rejoice in the successive outpourings and the torrential rains and the pouring waters from the clouds of mercy and the clouds of compassion."   AB05448

Then have We rained down upon thee from the clouds of holiness that wherewith the hearts of them that are nigh unto God are refreshed. The barren earth hath no portion of this mercy that hath encompassed all created things, nor of this blessed and mighty rain that poureth down.  BH11733

The divinely flow, the gracious effulgence and the godly spirit in the inward realm; it is the heavily out pouring rain, showering cloud, and torrential stream flowing down from the clouds of generosity and praised virtues emerge from the waters of abundant bestowals in heaven.  AB04562

God said: I was a hidden treasure and desired to be known, therefore, I created the universe. I created it not out of nothingness but through self-emanation; my breath became creative word of command, logos (see Evangile of John, introduction), which resulted in form and figure.  ABU0017

Look at the earth. Of itself it is worthless, yet it can reflect the light and heat of the sun. Clouds gather, the rains descend, and the earth becomes fruitful. In the same way the Spirit of God gives life to the soul of man, and the Breeze of God awakens the soul from its sleep.  ABU1627

The clouds of the heaven of Thy bounty have rained their rain on this City within whose walls is imprisoned Him Whose desire is the salvation of Thy creatures. Through it the soil of this City hath been decked forth, and its trees clothed with foliage, and its inhabitants gladdened.  BH07678

I was seated in the house when He caused Me to arise by His command, and I was silent when He made Me speak through His wise remembrance. Were it not for His command, I would not have revealed Myself, and were it not for His wisdom, I would not have been among you even for a moment.   BH05922

Some possessed a pure reality and were recipients of these universal outpourings, and like luminous crystal the heat of the Sun so influenced their essential nature that they acquired the heat of the ether. Others received but a reflection and a ray, while some were entirely deprived.  AB08113

And the very beginning of the creation of all things is taking place in this hour, a Friday, through these very words that are being uttered by God. The Lord of Majesty hath fashioned this new wondrous creation by virtue of His own Command, and He hath made it abide beneath His shadow.  BB00001

Praise be to God Who caused His lights to shine forth, His traces to spread, His mysteries to be diffused, His moons to appear, His grace to be mighty, His army to be victorious, His seas to surge, and His Cause to grow until it rendered creation helpless and manifested brilliant signs  AB00848

By God the Truth, every seed that is sown in this glorious age will be made to grow by God through the bounty of His clouds of mercy which preceded all contingent things, and from which and through which all existing things were awakened and issued forth, and unto which they shall return.  AB09620

When the rays of His all-merciful Self appear unclouded by this contingent world, the essence of transcendant sanctity is made manifest. And when the signs of His singleness shine through the spiritual lamps of illumined souls, the reality of His attributes become evident for all to see.   AB05300

One effulgence from the effulgences of the Ancient Beauty was the manifest Light that illumined the horizons of all regions, and one bounty from the bounties of the Lord, the All-Bountiful, was the mighty rain that made verdant and flourishing the hills and mountains, plains and wilderness.  AB09594

Praised be God Who brought forth in the world of being the Invisible Reality of creation - an established, luminous truth emanating through all contingent being. He gave it the image of the All-Merciful and created within it divine perfections and universal realities with manifest clarity.   AB00216

The Ancient Grace of the Ancient Beauty pours continuously like spring rain from the Kingdom of the Unseen. In this first age of the Chosen Beauty, the divine bounty exists in its utmost power and encompasses all beings. Yet each created thing receives and benefits according to its capacity.  AB05321

Roll not up, O my Lord, what hath been spread out in Thy name, and extinguish not the lamp which Thine own fire hath lit. Withhold not, O my Lord, the water that is life indeed from running down --the water from whose murmuring the wondrous melodies which extol and glorify Thee can be heard.   BH05570

The Supreme Pen at all times summons the people of the world to the direction of the All-Merciful. However, some souls hearkened to the call of the Friend and turned toward the Beloved, while others remained deprived of the light of His countenance and forbidden from the Kawthar of immortality.   BH03885

The infinite bounty has manifested with such radiance that it has illumined East and West with the light of reality. One effulgence from the Kingdom of the Luminary of the horizons makes the world bright and radiant, and one breath from the Abha Paradise makes East and West an eternal rose garden  AB06063

The human spirit proceeds from God by emanation, in the same way as the discourse proceeds from the speaker and the writing from the writer; that is, the speaker himself does not become the speech, any more than the writer becomes the writing: the connection is rather one of emanational procession.  AB00316

Others hold that this quality existeth in all things, for had the attraction of the Divine Beauty not seized upon His servants, their realities, being of pure essence, would never have accepted these opposing forms, becoming thus the manifestation of worldly events and the target of earthly decrees.  BH11781

This is a mention from Us to him whose letter was present before the Face, that the mention of the All-Merciful may draw him to a station wherein his very atoms testify that the gate of heaven hath been opened and the Lord of Names hath come with a sovereignty that hath encompassed all in creation.   BH06155

All things in the world of phenomena are expressive of that one reality. Its lights are shining, its heat is manifest, its power is expressive, and its education, or training, resplendent everywhere. What proof could there be greater than that of its functioning or its attributes which are manifest?   ABU0102

He bestowed the warmth of bounty, from which the fire of love was set in motion and made manifest, and it became the cause of joining and connection. He bound the East to the West and united the West to the East. He guided the people of paradise to paradise and led the companions of heaven to heaven.   BH01435

Thou hast caused all things to know Thee and hast caused the rivers of Thy Paradise to flow from the depths of Thy love, that Thou mightest give drink to all therein through what Thou hast created. This is Thy bounty unceasing and Thy grace unfailing to those who know Thee and seek Thy good-pleasure.   BB00252

One effulgence from the effulgences of the Ancient Beauty was the manifest Light that illumined the horizons of all regions, and one outpouring from the outpourings of the Lord, the All-Bountiful, was the mighty rain that made verdant and flourishing the hills and mountains, the plains and wilderness.  AB09594

Say: The Holy Spirit Itself hath been generated through the agency of a single letter revealed by this Most Great Spirit, if ye be of them that comprehend. And that innate and untaught nature in its essence is called into being by the verses of God, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved.  BH00007

"The Glory of the Sun of Truth penetrates all regions... The rays of the Sun of Truth are illuminating you... Strive with heart and soul that the Heavenly Light may descend upon all people and that through it every heart may be enlightened and that the spirit of the human race may partake of Its glory."  AB05004

He is the One Who createth what He willeth by His command Be! and it is. His are all that dwell in the night and in the day, and verily He is the Single One, the All-Compelling, the Self-Subsisting. He is the Fashioner of the heavens and the earth and what lieth between them, the Mighty, the Best-Beloved.  BB00004

The infinite bounties are all-encompassing and the merciful favors are perfect...each day brings forth a new manifestation, each moment reveals waves from the sea of glory, each breath brings the dawn of confirmation's light, and each instant displays the effusion of Baha'i grace in the world of possibility.  AB01271

All the heavenly Books, divine Prophets, sages and philosophers agree that warfare is destructive to human development, and peace constructive. They agree that war and strife strike at the foundations of humanity. Therefore, a power is needed to prevent war and to proclaim and establish the oneness of humanity.  ABU0041

This quickening spirit emanates spontaneously from the Sun of Truth, from the reality of Divinity, and is not a revelation or a manifestation. It is like the rays of the sun. The rays are emanations from the sun. This does not mean that the sun has become divisible, that a part of the sun has come out into space.  ABU0262

There it not difference in the bounties of God; a profusion of bounties are outpoured continually upon all sorts of land, but when the precious shower falls on a barren land, it causes thorns and weeds to grow. The same bounty and the same shower causes a good, fertile land to bear roses and grass and useful things.  AB01454

Know thou that the Ocean of Grandeur is surging, overflowing, rolling and ebbing from the Most Glorious Horizon, casting forth brilliant stars and radiant pearls from the Most Great Outpourings upon the hearts of the faithful, scattering them upon the hem of the spirits of the chosen ones and the breast of the pious.  AB03874

Even as inherent light is among the special characteristics of the sun and not the moons, the effulgent knowledge which is among the attributes of the All-Merciful's grace shines forth in the heart of the noblest of men, like unto the luminous moon whose rays and radiance derive from the light emanating from the sun.  AB10417

The Grace of the Abha Kingdom has surrounded the Dominion of Existence and the Rays of the Realm On High have illuminated and brightened the World of Possibilities and Placelessness. The Waves of the Greatest Sea have quenched the thirsty shores of Creation, scattering far and wide the Pearls of Knowledge and Wisdom.   AB00613

Know thou that at the time when thou didst advance toward God, thou wast created anew from the water of the spirit. Beware lest thou mention this clear water as mean - the first was ordained for the former ones, and the second for whoso advanceth toward the Dayspring that was luminous with the lights of the Countenance.  BH01891

The Sun of Guidance has shone forth from the Horizon of eternity and illumined the regions and horizons of hearts. Some received an abundant share of these outpourings and took a complete portion, while others took only a reflection in the world of names, and a great multitude of the people of the world remained deprived.   AB02404

when the Day of Manifestation comes and the flame of light blazes forth, and the fire of Sinai burns like a lamp of guidance in the niche of creation, the cloud of God's mercy rises up and the rain of the All-Merciful's bounty pours down pearls and jewels, the ancient grace is bestowed and the manifest light becomes visible  AB01589

The bestowals and outpourings of the Ancient Beauty have encompassed the kingdom of existence, both seen and unseen, like the mighty ocean. The breezes of the bounty of the Worshipped One have quickened the lands of souls, and the outpouring of the vernal clouds of grace has made the realm of hearts verdant and flourishing.   AB04247

These universal outpourings which illuminate and encompass all directions, lighting up East and West - their radiance had no effect on the eyes of the blind, their sweet fragrance did not perfume any nostrils, their wondrous bounty yielded no fruit for the ignorant soul, their precious gift gave no benefit to the base person.  AB06056

Then was derived the derivation from the word of discord when it was in the judgment of hypocrisy, and turned away what had turned toward the judgment of execution from the left of the Tree of Decree in the thicket of the mortal realm, until it was illumined by what shone forth from the white corner and gleamed and gave light...   BB00155

Whatever any perfect one might say in this station is imperfect. How can the poor and weak one speak of the Ocean of Wealth? How can the helpless and indigent describe the Sea of Power? We beseech God to illumine all through the lights of the Sun of Knowledge and to cause them to attain unto the sprinkling of the Ocean of Generosity.   BH00789

Nevertheless, the lights of His sanctity shine forth from the dawning-place of the hearts of the manifestations of praise, and though His mighty ocean is concealed in the accumulated clouds of contingent being, yet its majestic waves are clearly visible and manifest upon the shores of existence and the drinking-places of consciousness   AB05269

Thou didst water it from the rivers of Thy oneness flowing in Thy verdant Garden, and caused the breezes wafting from Thy most exalted Kingdom to pass over it. Thou didst shine upon it with the Sun of Thy Reality, the Most Luminous, and nurture it through the power, radiance and heat emanating from Thy Most Great, Most Glorious Luminary.  AB03085

From each of the trees and flowers and leaves and fruits We heard the cry "The Kingdom is God's!" O thou who hast turned thy face toward My horizon! The intoxication of the divine utterance hath so seized the things of that garden that every atom of its dust is engaged in wondrous and sublime songs in praise of God, exalted be His glory.   BH07542

Praise be to God that the divine outpouring, like the spring rain, has transformed the furnace of contingent existence into the rose garden of the placeless realm and made the dusty earth the envy of the verdant dome. It has made the world of mortality a mirror of the Kingdom and the lowest plane a surface reflecting the Supreme Concourse.  AB00748

On that dawn when the Sun of Reality shone forth from the horizon of the world upon the temples of nations, its brilliant rays illumined and enlightened East and West, and the spirit of life was breathed into the bodies of all things... otherwise the effulgence is one effulgence, the manifestation one manifestation, and the ray is one ray   AB11846

As soon as the Sun of Truth dawned in the East of Eternity, its rays like unto the lightening of the early morn, brightened and illumined this vast palace of immensity. Pure and transparent souls, which were clear from the rest of matter, immediately became enlightened and luminous and reflected the lights upon the world of contingent beings.   AB05789

All created things are both bestowers and recipients. For example, this lamp in terms of light is a bestower that bestows light, and it itself also receives bounty from the wick and oil and becomes a recipient. Similarly, this cycle and chain continues until it reaches God, and God, exalted be His grandeur, is the Bestower and not a recipient.  ABU2734

The Sun of Reality is shining and the spring cloud is pouring forth its bounties and the divine spring breezes are stirring from all directions. If any tract of land with its capacities and realities does not become verdant and flourishing in this Most Great Day, there is no doubt it will remain forever deprived of the outpourings of the All-Merciful  AB04166

Say: God hath created no letter but He hath created thereby a male or female. Say: God createth no male but He createth for it from itself a female. Say: God createth no female but He createth from herself a male by God's command that giveth life. Say: God sendeth down no single thing but He createth from it a pair for God, the Lord of all the worlds.  BB00004

It is for the Will, and through the manifestation of His own Self, that God hath created, out of His Self, 18 souls, ere the creation of all things; and He hath enshrined the sign of their recognition in the inmost reality of all things, that all, from the depth of their essence, may bear witness that He is the Primal Unity and the Eternal Ever-Living.  BB00001

In this merciful cycle, through the grace of God, the drop hath been united with the surging sea and the lowliest of atoms hath attained the summit of grandeur. The feeble birds of the lowest abyss have ascended to the heaven of Mercy and the dejected souls have stepped forth confidently with the power of Divine assistance, beneath the shelter of His Word.   AB06021

The Creator has ever had a creation, and the rays have ever emanated and shone forth from the Sun of Truth, for a lightless sun would be impenetrable darkness. The names and attributes of God require the existence of things, and no cessation in the outpouring of God's ancient grace can ever be contemplated, for this would be contrary to the divine perfections.  AB00839

Some souls imagine that there is a cessation to the bounties of God, as if at one time the divine bestowals are poured out, at another time withheld from mankind and ceasing. If we carefully reflect upon this matter, we find that such a statement is in fact a denial of Divinity, for the reality of Divinity is evidenced by virtue of its outpourings or bestowals.  ABU0012

He it is Who was established upon His throne before creating anything, and He was upon the water which He created within Himself before aught was joined unto it, for He, exalted be His might and glory, revealed Himself unto it and cast within its essence His likeness, without anything emerging from His Being in His presence or ascending from His Essence unto Him.  BB00247

And verily the glory from God be upon the First Unity and upon him who resembleth that Unity wherein naught is seen save the First Unity. And further, I testify that the inspiration of God shall never be cut off from any soul, be it through the outward creation of the horizons or the inward creation of the souls. And the latter is made manifest through the former.   BB00305

However, there are degrees for human deeds and virtues: there is a deed whose benefit returns to the person himself, another deed whose fruit returns to his family or his people and tribe. But there is a deed whose benefit and fruit returns to all the people of the world, and its results are unlimited and its effects endure as long as the world of existence endures  ABU1916

And again Thou art as the bountiful clouds raining from above the hills, mountains, deserts, rugged grounds and lowlands. Thus, it is vibrated, revived and verdant from this bounty. At other times, Thou art as the infinite ocean whose abounding grace hath flooded all creation, in such wise that the billowing waves thereof have cast upon the sands their shining pearls   AB03270

Know that His primary aspect which indicates naught but the First Emanation - the servant cannot perceive any aspect of mention other than this. In truth, all things below the Divine Essence are composed of elements of their own realm. God has not created any single thing subsisting independently, due to the impossibility of contingency having the station of necessity.  BB00042

Throughout the universe the divine power is effulgent in endless images and pictures. The world of creation, the world of humanity may be likened to the earth itself and the divine power to the sun. This Sun has shone upon all mankind. In the endless variety of its reflections the divine Will is manifested. Consider how all are recipients of the bounty of the same Sun.  ABU0399

He is God, exalted be His station, the Greatness and Power! Praise be to the Adored One Who, in every age and century, nay rather in every year and month, even in every hour and minute, awakens His servants through signs, tokens and allusions. As is evident, at every moment He appears in a new guise, and in every instant a new matter becomes manifest and an event occurs.  BH01512

On this morn of eternity, when the lights of the Kingdom of "Be and it is" have immersed the realms of the unseen and the seen in splendor, and the Most Great Bounty hath encompassed the worlds of existence, the Sun of Reality hath shone forth from the supreme horizon at the meridian with such grace and radiance as to stir the unseen realm of contingent being into motion.  AB04697

The conjunction of names with what balanceth and manifesteth their meanings is the measure of the alchemical components in words. Therefore have the alchemical components of all things multiplied and varied according to what appeareth, since in such a name its element of fire must be six measures, then its air one measure, then its water eight measures, then its earth four.  BB00003

The first mention of a thing without relation to thingness is the existence of Will. At the time of relating existence to thingness it is Purpose. At the time of mentioning meanings it is Destiny. The manifestation of these three ranks is Decree. And at this station it is obligatory upon all contingent things to acknowledge the origination of God, glory be to Him, the Most High.  BB00017

If we could imagine for a moment an interruption in the onward flow of the bounties of God, it would be to suggest that God was a finite being. We cannot imagine such a thing. This proves, therefore, that God has always been the Creator, the Provider, the Generous, the Life-giver, the Omniscient, the Omnipotent: and in the outpouring of His virtues there is no cessation at all.   ABU0335

He hath created all things out of nothing through His all-pervading power, and hath caused all things to come into being from nothingness through His insuperable Will, so that all atoms from a beginning that hath no beginning unto an end that hath no end might be ennobled through His recognition, exalted through His unity, and illumined through acknowledgment of His Manifestations  BB00005

For when a thing is mentioned, it has the rank of existence, and it cannot exist except through the rank of its essence, which is the cause of accepting existence. When duality is established, the link is established. When the link is established in the station of trinity, wisdom necessitates the rule of four in the descent of the Command from the unseen realm to the visible world.  BB00366

Through them have gushed forth the springs of divinity, and the Lote-Tree of concealment hath put forth leaves, and the camphor-like leaf hath yielded fruit. Through them hath the Essence of divinity been established upon the throne of eternity, and the Dove hath warbled in the sanctified Temple, and the lights of morn have dawned from the Sun of the Divine Essence in glorified form.   BH01762

Man, then, is in extreme need of the only Power by which he is able to receive help from the Divine Reality, that Power alone bringing him into contact with the Source of all life. An intermediary is needed to bring two extremes into relation with each other. Riches and poverty, plenty and need: without an intermediary power there could be no relation between these pairs of opposites.   ABU0773

Verily, We gave her glad tidings aforetime through the mention of My Most Exalted Pen, and We mentioned her before her ascension and after her ascension. Verily We have forgiven her and purified her of all that is unworthy of God, the Lord of the worlds. And We make mention of God at this time with a mention from which the fragrance of grace is wafted between the heavens and the earths.  BH02528

The people of truth maintain that the appearance of the realities of things from the Truth is through emanation, not manifestation, just as the ray emanates from luminous bodies - all are from Him but are not Him. The luminous rays, infinite bounties, and spiritual impressions and reflections emanated from the Sun of Truth; it is not that they were the manifestation of the Sun of Truth.  AB07082

The surge and motion of this current is not bound by time or moment at all. In less than the twinkling of an eye it reaches from the lowest realm to the highest realm, and instantly arrives from the highest realm to the lowest realm. Its wire is the knowledge of God and its components are the love of God. Its force and penetration set the worlds in motion and its influence endures forever.  AB05201

For this Cause of the Ancient Beauty is like the Most Great Sea and the Most Glorious Treasury - each one partakes according to their capacity. Some take a drop, some take a sip, some take a pool, and some, the more they drink, the more their thirst increases and their ardor intensifies, for there is no end to the infinite bounty and no beginning or end to the perfections of the Sun of Truth.  AB04084

From it flashed forth the lights of might and fellowship and glory, And the fires appeared on Mount Sinai. Through it were raised all thrones, then they became inaccessible, And the All-Merciful was established upon the throne of the mighty Command. From it were stirred the winds of the Spirit from the dawning-place of eternity, And through it surged the oceans of light and brought forth pearls.  BH00327

Through Thee have I detached myself, through Thee have I become enriched in Thy presence, through Thee have I sought aid in all things, through Thee have I become mighty over all things, through Thee have I become honored above all things, through Thee have I become exalted above all things, through Thee have I become illumined over all things, through Thee have I become glorified above all things  BB00011

All praise be to God Who hath manifested the Most Great Luminary from the horizon of the world. And He hath arisen and sparked and shed its radiance and been unfolded upon the horizon of nations. And He hath illuminated the thick darkness and rent asunder the enshrouding veil of the most gloomy night with effulgent rays and shining Glory that is being diffused in the dawning places of God's decree.   AB02853

Its radiance in every mirror appears according to that mirror's color. Thus when it shone forth in the mirrors of the hearts of the philosophers, wisdom became manifest. Likewise when it cast its rays upon the hearts of craftsmen, wondrous and exalted arts appeared. And when it dawned in the hearts of the mystics, the wonders of divine knowledge and the mysteries of heavenly utterance were revealed.   BH04673

The bounties of the Abha Kingdom are the same as the rays of Sun of Truth: they illumine earth and heaven, they transform a small star into a shining luminary, and they change an atom into a mountain. They give strength to the weak and healing to the sick; they confer heavenly treasures upon the poor and raise the lowly to ranks of eternal honour. They enable those in darkness to become enlightened.   AB02330

That concealed Word upon which the souls of all the Messengers of God and His Chosen Ones have ever depended hath manifested itself out of the invisible world into the visible plane. So great was the wondrous grace which pervaded all things that through the utterance of the letters "B" and "E" the gems that lay hid within the repositories of this contingent world were brought forth and made manifest.   BH00729

All existence is a recipient of the lights of manifestation, and the tablet of creation is traversed by the Most Exalted Pen with the signs of guidance, inscribing thereon perfect words, conclusive proofs, clear evidences and radiant demonstrations. The realities of all created things speak Thy praise, chant the verses of Thy unity, call out Thy Name and proclaim unto all ears Thy glorification and attributes.   AB00201

It was once a gnat and it is now an eagle. It was once a sparrow and now it hath become a falcon rising into the azure skies of divine attraction. If these bounties are realised and we are granted the grace of the one true God and His loving providence, a feeble ant could raise the banner of sovereignty in the kingdom of Sheba. Even a will o the wisp mosquito could spread its wings as wide as a mighty buzzard!   AB05233

All created things are made manifest through the light of that Sun. Were it not for the Sun's light, no created thing would become manifest - all would remain hidden. Indeed, the very life of earthly creation depends upon the light and heat of the Sun, and all things, even to the smallest particles on earth, benefit from its rays and heat. Yet each created thing receives according to its own capacity and worthiness.   AB00249

Through Our bounty were created the heavens and what lieth above them of the Throne and what lieth above it of the Seat, and the angels in the heavens who glorify God with Our remembrance and who praise Us. Through Our bounty were created fire and air, then water and earth - by these are all things created. Through Our bounty were created the earth and the seas, then the mountains and what was created therein of minerals.  BB00107

The grace of the Abha Kingdom shall endure forever; the divinely guided King hath established Himself upon the throne of His Kingdom; the candle of Divine guidance is revealed in all its splendour in the assemblage; the honey of purity sweeteneth the taste of the eloquent heart-ravishers; the Divine bounties are even as world-encompassing daylight; and His favours are like unto life-giving vernal showers for young and old.   AB06836

Just as the rays of the sun shine upon all earthly things, yet none of these things is the sun itself--though indeed they exist by virtue of the sun--so also all created things appear through the holy outpourings and the divine effulgences of the First Cause, yet none of them is identical to that Reality. The difference between God and His creation is thus essential and not merely nominal, fundamental and not merely imaginal.  AB00062

And so the waters of existence descend from the heaven of Thy Oneness and Thou hast caused the showers of Thine Eternal Bounties to rain down from the clouds of the heaven of Thy Mighty Oneness until, through this most mighty Beneficence, the rivers of Thy most wondrous Grace flowed forth upon the soil of all possible existent realities in Thine act of Creation. All lands and regions were watered by these streaming, heavenly rivers.  AB00007

The first is the love that flows from God to man; it consists of the inexhaustible graces, the Divine effulgence and heavenly illumination. Through this love the world of being receives life. Through this love man is endowed with physical existence, until, through the breath of the Holy Spirit -- this same love -- he receives eternal life and becomes the image of the Living God. This love is the origin of all the love in the world of creation.   ABU0651

O my God! Thou art He Who, through the outpourings of Thy bounty and the showers of the clouds of Thy mercy, hast created, brought into being, and called forth luminous, divine realities and celestial, eternal essences. Thou hast nurtured them in the realms of Thy holiness by Thy fostering hand, raised them up through Thy pure favor, caused them to spring forth from the Tree of Thy oneness, and brought them forth from the Lote-Tree of Thy unity.  AB00970

The power of divine bounty is like a flood that no barrier can withstand and no cloud can prevent, for it is an undoubted outpouring descending from the invisible Kingdom - a torrential rain and falling waters. It has caused commotion in all regions and trembling in the pillars of the deprived nations. The pulse of contingent being has quickened, and the divine spirit has so permeated that the body of the world has been thrown into ecstasy and joy.  AB03385

He it is Who hath ever caused, and will continue forever to cause, His eternal manifestations to dawn upon the souls and bodies of them that navigate the depths of holiness and sanctity, and hath made the breezes of His everlasting revelations to descend upon the essential realities of them that ascend unto the heavens of glory and majesty, so that all creation might be drawn, through that which He hath ordained and decreed, towards that Garment of Reality  BH00648

For the Merciful Manifestation, the Divine Dawning-Place, and the Eternal Setting-Place hath two stations in the world of appearance and two ranks in the realm of manifestation. In the first station, He is the source of the water of life, the heavenly spring of salvation, and the spirit that pervades the realities of all things. This mighty outpouring and manifest bounty is expressed as the flowing water, and "from water did We create every living thing."   AB00298

Then the breeze of the holy east wind blew from the Sheba of true paradise, bearing a fine, perfumed mist from the locks of that spiritual houri. At that moment, several droplets of luminous wine from the spring of the beauty of the All-Merciful condensed in that mist, and the hand of immortal power became manifest from the hidden treasury of sovereign grace. It kneaded that numinous mist into the sweet water of light, then breathed a pre-existent breath into it.  BH01911

Praise that is sanctified above the mention of all created things and the description of all contingent beings befitteth the court of the holy nearness of the Desired One, Who through His blessed word "I loved to be known" brought the world of creation from nothingness into being, and with the fire of love set aflame the sanctified and detached souls and the radiant and receptive temples. That blessed Word became the dawning-place of light and the source of fire.   BH00649

The illumination of hearts is the radiance of the Day-Star of the horizons, and that which bestoweth life upon souls is the effulgence of the Day-Star of the Covenant. Were it not for these vernal breezes and these dawn-time zephyrs, the world would be embodied death and creation manifest darkness. The world of existence would have no grace, and the reality of being no attribute. The tree of creation would yield no fruit, and the essence of survival leave no trace.  AB03569

Glory be to Him Who originates whatsoever He willeth by His command, and when He desireth a thing, before He saith unto it Be!, it already existeth. Praise be to God Who hath manifested Himself to all essences through the light of His Eternal Countenance, without limitation in His Essence, nor location in His Attributes, nor comparison in His Examples, causing all to be bewildered in the stations of Command and Creation according to what God hath willed and ordained.  BB00186

When the self-subsistent Living God manifested Himself with all His Names, Attributes, Perfections and Characteristics to the people of the Universe, and illuminated the Dawning-place of the contingent world with the Lights of the orb of the Placeless and raised fervency and clamour within every component atom of the world of Creation, then the Shower of Mercy began to fall, the rays of the Sun gleamed, the refreshing zephyr blew and the Voice of God reached the ears.  AB03005

When He wished, without thought or care, to manifest Will and create Will for all things - these being the letters Mim and Shin - there shone forth from His Essence a radiant light having no end, not separate from Him. Thus did the light manifest the light of radiance to those who perceived it, and radiance manifested a shadow. He established the form of existence through the dual nature of radiance and shadow, making light its inner reality and the Essence its source.  BB00014

During the days I lay in the prison of Tihran, though the galling weight of the chains and the stench-filled air allowed Me but little sleep, still in those infrequent moments of slumber I felt as if something flowed from the crown of My head over My breast, even as a mighty torrent that precipitateth itself upon the earth from the summit of a lofty mountain. Every limb of My body would, as a result, be set afire. At such moments My tongue recited what no man could bear to hear.  BH00005

Let us return to the meaning of the Bismillah, and We shall say in explanation of the All-Merciful and the Most Merciful: Know thou that mercy is an expression of the divine outpouring that encompasseth all created things - His mercy embraceth all things - and verily it is the source of all contingent beings in all conditions, phases, manifestations, mysteries, realities, existence, effects, determinations, capacities and individuations, both hidden and manifest, in the realm of light.  AB00013

O Fourth Letter of this Temple, betokening the attribute of Grace! We have made thee the manifestation of grace betwixt earth and heaven. From thee have We generated all grace in the contingent world, and unto thee shall We cause it to return. And from thee shall We manifest it again, through a word of Our command. Potent am I to accomplish whatsoever I desire through My word Be, and it is! Every grace that appeareth in the world of being hath originated from thee, and unto thee shall it return.  BH00007

Take a lamp; its light is created by the sun but is no part of the light of the sun. The action of the sun upon the earth produced the petroleum that gives the light. Neither the petroleum nor the light is any part of the sun. And so it is with the life, or essence, of all creation. God has created all beings, but their life, or essence, is not the Life of the Spirit. The Bounty of God is bestowed upon the mineral, the vegetable, animal, and man, but their life, or essence, is not the Spirit of God.   ABU2034

This is the mercy that gives without being asked and bestows upon all contingent and created things, from their beginning to their end, whether concealed or manifest. This is the mercy that preceded all things that were and will be in the worlds of creation, and through this all-encompassing mercy, the universal lordship of the True Educator is made manifest to all who are in the heavens and earth. Through it, all things are sustained, all things are provided for, and all things are given before they ask or desire or will.   BH00330

And another station is the station from the Truth to the Truth, and that consists of manifestations which are in essence and for their own sake, wherein Beauty is attracted to its own Self and enkindled with its own love. The example of this station in the outer world is like unto the ocean which is, in essence and for its own sake, surging and in motion. It possesses conditions and degrees within its own essence. And another station is that of the effusion of rain, which is the station of outpouring from the Truth to creation.   ABU1971

But the eternal flows out to, envelops, and permeates all things which are impermanent. God, or Truth which is the reality of God, gives life to mankind. The earth in its own inherent condition is dark, while the sun is bright; but the sun shines upon the earth, and the earth is bright by reason of the shining of the sun. So God has given His light to created beings. God is a perfection which flows out to, envelops, and permeates the world; and mankind should reflect the perfection of God as the earth reflects the rays of the sun.  ABU0565

And praise be to God Who hath sent down from the dark clouds of His Will all that existeth in need of divine ordinances, heavenly verses, signs of sovereignty and dominion, and tokens of the earthly realm, so that none might need another in any matter, and each might behold what God hath intended for him throughout all regions and witness what God hath ordained in the worlds of detachment - like the manifestation of His Self in His Self and His manifestations in His signs, as God hath revealed to each thing according to its station.  BB00186

Although outwardly the showers of divine mercy have, according to desert, been withheld from the peoples of the world, yet the true rains from the spiritual heaven are ever pouring down and flowing forth - these are the missives of grace and love that have continuously arrived and continue to arrive from the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree and His loved ones. The rains of love have another heaven, another cloud, and another earth. Its earth is hearts and minds, its heaven the favor of the Beloved, and its cloud the will and purpose of the Sovereign of hearts.  BH09737

The Lord of the Kingdom and the Sun of Truth has sent forth a splendor and effulgence upon the world and the universe. All the contingent things found life and existence from the rays of that Effulgence, entered and became manifest in the Arena of Being. Therefore, all the objective phenomena are as surfaces of mirrors upon which the Sun of Truth has cast the rays of the Outpouring of Bounty. All these surfaces (different stages of life) are mirrors reflecting the rays of the Sun of Truth. The Outpouring is the One Outpouring, and the Effulgence is the One Effulgence.  AB00308

The bounties of God have had no beginning and shall have no end, because the bounties of God are expressive of the sovereignty of God which is effective in its penetration throughout the phenomena in the world. The sovereignty of God is not, like the human reign of sovereignty, an accidental affair - at a time not existing, anew coming into being, and a time terminating. That is human sovereignty. But the sovereignty of God has no beginning and for it there is no end. The names and attributes of God have ever been effective and will continue to be effective forevermore.  ABU0021

Then He brought forth the latter creation through an all-encompassing grace and a brilliant ray from the Sun of Truth that shines and illumines the horizons with the light of dawning. He spread the carpet of eternal glory, whereby through His abundant outpouring grace the gardens of signs are adorned and the pools of mysteries overflow. He sent the winds of prosperity bearing glad tidings of His mercy to all souls, and caused the clouds of success to rain upon the valleys and hills in the realm of forms. Thus did the light and warmth that emanated from the Luminary of mysteries influence all regions.  AB08392

O ye dwellers of the Throne! O ye Concourse of Holiness in the Most Exalted Paradise! O ye dwellers of the precincts of intimacy in the most glorious heaven! O ye denizens of the Supreme Concourse in the pavilions of names! Hearken unto the call of God from this enkindled, blazing Fire within this lofty, upraised, blessed, unique, eternal, everlasting Tree upon this visible Mount in this blessed, transcendent Valley, that "Verily, I am God; there is none other God but Me. In truth, I have ever encompassed all worlds. I created all things in the world of the newly-created Will at a station which was sanctified and purified from all limitations and allusions to unity, in truth and by the truth."   BH01480

However, I will fully submit and confirm this when, upon turning my attention to that region, its musk-laden breeze and amber-scented air wafts from the rose garden of the highest paradise, perfuming the nostrils of the soul and the consciousness with ambergris. That sweet fragrance is the diffusion of the divine breaths and the showering of the rain of God's guidance. It is the shining forth of the lights of truth and the manifestation of the mysteries of the Divine Unity. It is the arrival of the waves of the ocean of grace and the tempest of love for the Lord of the House of Divinity. It is the dawning of the Sun of Reality and the manifestation of the signs and tokens of the Lord, the King of Divinity.  AB08093

If thou asketh about divine favors, it is an endless ocean.  AB06222

This bounty is not confined to anyone, but hath encompassed all worlds.  BH09495

Indeed it would be a pity if in such days one were to become dejected, for the rays of the Sun of Truth have so illumined the horizons that they are in tumult and commotion. The divine call has shaken the foundations of all regions and created an uproar in this infinite universe.   AB01313

Just at this time this light speaks with thine eye; the sun converses with the earth. In addresses it: 'I am most kind toward thee. I am pouring my rays upon thee. I am training thee. I am causing in thee the growth of flowers and hyacinths.' In turn the earth says to the sun: 'I am in need of thy favors. Were it not for thy beneficent rays my surface would not have been adorned with the roses and carnations. Pour then thy bestowals uninterruptedly upon me.'  ABU2268

The Sun of bounty shines upon everyone, and the showers of mercy rain upon all, for they are divine bestowals.  ABU3729


The clouds of divine bounty bestow blessings on all. It is sanctified of exclusivity. Showers of divine bounty and confirmation are always falling; if any spot experiences a suspension or delay, other areas shall receive these effusions.   ABU1361


He bestowed eternal life and granted everlasting bounties generously and abundantly. Consider what a cup full of nectar He bestowed on His friends and what an effervescent wine He graciously gave. That is from God's grace which He bestows on whom He wishes, and God is possessed of mighty grace.   AB04377

We must be like rain which falls on the stone, or cultivated ground and on the sea. Because the favor of Baha'u'llah is assisting all...should reach all. It is a sun which shines upon all, a sea which casts waves upon all sides of the shore; a cool breeze which blows to all nations. Man must be like that.   ABU1400

the ocean of wealth is surging and the spirit of affluence is in tumult. The freely-given treasure flows like a flowing stream, spreading everywhere, and the wealth of the Most Glorious Kingdom pours forth and descends upon the horizons of heart and soul.   AB06121

This mercy is divided into two kinds: One kind is termed the all-encompassing mercy, the universal mercy, the all-embracing mercy, the treasured mercy, the absolute mercy, the all-surrounding mercy... This is the mercy that giveth without being asked and bestoweth upon all contingent and created things, from beginning to end, whether hidden or manifest, more comprehensive than what is concealed or revealed. The other kind is termed the limited mercy, the restricted mercy, and similar terms, and from this mercy there descendeth from the clouds of justice the rain of bounty after the supplication of servants in the world of existence.   BH00330

In this day, the fertilizing winds of the grace of God have passed over all things. Every creature hath been endowed with all the potentialities it can carry. And yet the peoples of the world have denied this grace! Every tree hath been endowed with the choicest fruits, every ocean enriched with the most luminous gems. Man, himself, hath been invested with the gifts of understanding and knowledge. The whole creation hath been made the recipient of the revelation of the All-Merciful, and the earth the repository of things inscrutable to all except God, the Truth, the Knower of things unseen.  BH00007

Thy mercy hath preceded all things, Thy bounty hath been perfected, and Thy power hath encompassed all things. Thou didst create creation through an outpouring that encompasseth the realities of existence, and Thou didst bring forth the first creation through the dawning of the lights of guidance. Through these Thou didst manifest Thyself upon the subtle realities that were prepared for these outpourings, until they received abundance and became illumined, and were purified and refined through the signs of Thy oneness whose effects are manifest and brilliant. AB01095

If an ant desired to interpret the Qur'an's inner meaning and the inner meaning of its inner meaning, it would be able to do so, for the impenetrable divine mystery has penetrated into the reality of all created things.   AB01840

When the Beloved of all horizons shone forth from the Dawning-Place of hopes, He bestowed upon the world and its peoples a ray from the reality of sanctification. That brilliant light encompassed all perfections and conferred all bounties. Upon every atom it fell, it became a sun; upon every drop it struck, it became an ocean. Upon the crown of every ant it shone, it became a Solomon; upon the eye of every gnat it gleamed, it became a celestial eagle. Upon every land it dawned, it became a holy city; upon every region it was revealed, it became a pure Paradise of Delight.  AB04081
