the spirit of man can soar in the firmament of knowledge, can discover realities   ABU3259

But the intellect is a power by which man ponders over things and secures tangible results from them.   ABU1568

The intellect is a great instrument and a truthful messenger from God - it conveys both good and evil.   BH06522

Although man is part of the animal creation, he possesses a power of thought superior to all other created beings.  ABU1414

Similarly with the power of mind - what you see in the realm of existence was once hidden; the human spirit discovered it and brought it from the realm of the hidden to the realm of the visible.  AB02512

The wise define human reason as the ability to discover the unknown, by means of a sequence of major and minor premises of known facts, leading to the discovery of intelligible universal truths.  AB12758

This power of perception can never be found in the animal kingdom. But man by this power can prove that the sun is a center and that the globe and other bodies revolve around it. This power of judgment, possessed only by man, proves his excellence.  ABU0667


Figuratively speaking the brain is like a mirror. When it is turned toward any direction whether in the East or in the West immediately that picture will be reflected on its surface and consciousness is realized.   ABU2789

You say it is the discoverer of the reality of things. This is the encompasser. This is the discoverer. This is the maker of rules. This is the cause of order in the world. The world of existence moves because of this.   ABU1881

All the arts, sciences, industries, and inventions were once in the invisible world- were hidden mysteries; but the intellectual power of man has revealed them -has brought them forth from the invisible to the visible world.  ABU0780

the holy power of the mind has unveiled the concealed mysteries and protected truths of the natural world, has broken through the laws of nature, and brought those hidden mysteries from the realm of the unseen into the visible realm   AB02189

All that thou seest, such as arts, inventions, traces and discoveries were once in the realm of the unknown...But the human spirit discovered such hidden mysteries and brought them out of the sphere of the unknown into the world of visibility  AB09754

God has deposited in man a holy power which is the discoverer of the reality of phenomena, which transcends the regulations of nature and which rules over the powers of the physical world. Through that power man is distinguished from the animal.  ABU0216

For instance, a cow has no knowledge whatsoever of God, no awareness of intellect and the intelligible, no knowledge of the power of discovery in human reality, no knowledge of the force of gravity, no knowledge of the ethereal matter in which you believe, for it is imperceptible.   AB00166

While living upon the earth, it discovers the stars and their satellites; it travels underground, finds the metals in their hidden depths and unlocks the secrets of geological ages. It can cross the abysses of interstellar space and discover the motion of inconceivably distant suns.   ABU0825

Through it industries are established, the past and present are laid bare and the underlying realities are brought to light. Let us make nature our captive, break through all laws of limitation and with deep penetration bring to light that which is hidden. The power to do this is the greatest of divine benefits.   ABU1902

Such life and power existeth not in the animal kingdom, for the human spirit discovereth the realities of things, inventeth these crafts, discovereth all these sciences, unveileth the mysteries of nature, administereth affairs of the East while in the West, and maketh discoveries concerning the heavens while on earth.  ABU0085

Mind makes geological discoveries in subterranean depths and determines the processes of creation in the earth's lowest strata. The sciences and arts, all inventions, crafts, trades and their products have come forth from the intellect of man. It is evident that within the human organism the intellect occupies the supreme station.   ABU0233

Human progress depends upon what one observes. It is observations that cause the expansion of thought. For example, if we were to raise one child in a room, and another amidst meadows and plains and near the sea where his observations would be numerous and his experiences boundless, undoubtedly the second child would become more far-sighted and accomplished in all matters.   ABU1310

The light of the spirit illumines the world of existence and release it from the clutches of materialism. The ears can hear the voice in a limited distance, the vision of the eyes similarly is circumscribed but the spirit sees the East and the West; while in the West it organizes important affairs in the East; while on earth it discovers heavenly satellites; it unfolds the mysteries of phenomena.   ABU1447

Sagacity is a power which enables one to become cognizant of the existence of a thing by means of the outward senses, or to feel the presence of a thing through certain outward signs. For instance, the slightest motion felt in a room makes one conscious of the presence of some one upon the roof, without, however, knowing who or what or which he or it may be. This is the limit of the knowing power of Sagacity.   ABU1568

But the divine philosophers say: No, this is not so. Although man shares the same outward powers and senses in common with the animal, there exists in him an extraordinary power of which the animal is deprived. All sciences, arts, inventions, crafts, and discoveries of realities proceed from this singular power. This is a power that encompasses all created things, comprehends their realities, unravels their hidden mysteries, and brings them under its control. It even understands things that have no outward existence, that is, intelligible, imperceptible and unseen realities, such as the mind, the spirit, human attributes and qualities, love and sorrow, all of which are intelligible realities.  AB00057
