Though the First Intellect is without beginning, this does not mean that it shares in the pre-existence of God, for in relation to the existence of God the existence of that universal Reality is mere nothingness--it cannot even be said to exist, let alone to partake of the pre-existence of God.  AB00876

This blessed Primal Word hath been called by all names - in one place as the Trumpet, in another as the Bugle, and likewise as the Path, the Balance, and the like. It is the cause of the gathering and resurrection of all things whatsoever that have been created in earth and heaven. Through it was manifested all that hath been sent down in the Book concerning the Hour and its signs, and the Resurrection and what shall appear therein. In one station it cannot be described by any description nor mentioned by any mention, while in another station it is described by the most exalted attributes and mentioned by the most beautiful names. Verily it is the Primal Will which created itself by itself and created through itself all else besides it.  BH00135

There was no cause for Thy creation save Thy bringing it into being, and no reason for Thy invention save Thy origination of it.  BH11123

When you recognize the mystery of creation through what has descended in the hidden indications of these expressions, witness that the philosophers have slipped in the station of recognizing that First Emanation, which is the letter Kaf revolving upon itself, by itself, for itself, from itself - for they are unable to comprehend how God originated the Will by itself, for itself, from itself, without being touched by the fire of His Essence.  BB00042

It continues eternally in the highest station as the Creator which was manifested to it at the beginning of its creation as a sign of the appearance of His Self-Subsistence, a mirror reflecting His Countenance of Eternality, and a geometry for the manifestation of His sovereignty. It is the sign for which God has made no beginning except the perpetuity of His grace, and no end except in itself. It has ever drawn from God, by itself and for itself, in all ranks of the unseen and visible realms, and it has no exhaustion.  BB00114

Behold in truth that God, exalted be He, is eternally One, none beside Him, never changing from His single state, now as He was, His Self His Self, and creation dwells in the plane of His dominion. When He willed - and God's Will is His bringing into being, not from anything - He did not beget anything but rather created things through Will, and created Will through itself. Will is the first point mentioned in contingent existence, and it is the First Remembrance whereby God remembered Himself: "Verily I am God, there is no god but I. I was a hidden treasure and I loved to be known, so I created creation that I might be known."  BB00098

Nothing can don the garment of existence save through choice in genesis and law, for the cause of choice is choice itself.  BB00219

Then once again God, glorified and exalted be Him, created the Primal Will, and created all things through Him.  BB00001

"When God willed a thing, the Will came into being through God, not from anything, and fell prostrate upon its throne before God"   BB00318


He hath created all things through the Will which He hath brought into being in the realm of possibility through the essence of possibility itself.   BH01299

Then another point appeared, and verily it was the Primal Will, through which God created all that was and will be, and all that appeared before and will appear unto the end that hath no end.  BH01602

In it the Primal Will came into existence before the mention of contingent things. In it Lordship appeared and all servitude was established... through the essence of the aforementioned Will, in its own station   BB00240

Through His power He created Will from nothing, and through His Will He brought forth Desire from naught. Then He raised up whatsoever He pleased by His command in the kingdoms of His might and holiness, and in the realms of His detachment and grace.  BB00003

Through pure creativity He hath brought the contingent Will into being from the midst of sheer nothingness, and hath attributed it to Himself as a mark of honor, even as He hath called the Kaaba His House. He hath brought all creation into existence through its existence.  BB00017

Whoso knoweth of a certainty that He is the Point of the Qur'an manifested in His Resurrection, and the Point of the Bayan in His first Revelation, and that He is the Primal Will Who existeth by Himself, the Self-Subsistent, while all things are created by His bidding, and exist by Him  BB00001

The beginning of the existence of the Primal Will--which is the Cause of causes and the ultimate light of the Eternal Morn--was but from nothing, as You manifested unto it through itself, and it was established in its shadow. You bestowed upon it what it could bear of what it would create through itself.   BB00197


By the cause is meant the Primal Will, and by what is created through the cause is meant the conditions of that cause until the appearance of the end. When thou desirest something, look not to the means and the cause, but rather look to God Who created all things through the cause and created the cause without a cause.  BB00003

God created all things through the Primal Will and created the Primal Will by itself, for this is manifest where God revealed Himself to the Point of the Bayan through itself, by itself, of itself, and caused it to speak verses which are its proof from its Lord apart from aught else. Then He created through it all who are in the Bayan.  BB00027

When He willed - and God's Will is His bringing into being, not from anything - He did not beget anything but rather created things through Will, and created Will through itself. Will is the first point mentioned in contingent existence, and it is the First Remembrance whereby God remembered Himself: Verily I am God, there is no god but I.  BB00098

All that the mirrors reflect are but reflections of itself, and all that the crystals display are but expressions of its essence. Such is the creation of the Will, created from nothing by itself for itself, after God cast within it the likeness of its own revelation. Then there appeared from it that which filled the heavens and the earth and all that lies between them.  BB00005

Indeed, He created it by itself for itself, without any soul preceding it, nor any mention equaling it, nor any attribute resembling it, nor any description opposing it. He made its essence identical with its own reality, and its being identical with its own identity. It is the Cause of causes in the origins of the Command and the ultimate endings, which God hath placed in the station of Will as His own station.  BB00014

God hath created all things through His Will, and hath created the Will through itself, and it is the Primal Remembrance, and this is the Eternal Remembrance. All things were created through it, whether of heaven or earth, mountain or sea, great creation or small. It verily encompasseth all the heavens and all the earth and whatsoever is between them - an encompassment of knowledge and dominion, not of physical embodiment within physical form.  BB00005


The Primal Will existed, through itself, of itself, by itself, and He made it the embellishment of the garments of the Divine Essence, the Camphorated, the Pre-existent, through which all adorned things were adorned in the manifestations of the heaven of the realm of martyrdom. From the beginning when sight was adorned, it was a sign thereof, and verily the Will which God made the station of His Essence and His Grandeur was adorned with Purpose, and He made it the station of itself. Then through it He adorned His Essence through its manifestation through Destiny.  BB00677

He created the Primal Will before all things from nothing through itself, and fashioned it according to the form of its acceptance without any precedent, and ordained for it the law of correspondence in the form of its unity without any condition save its own essence. And He distinguished within its unified whole through the decree of the pair, which is its servitude, and brought forth through it the decree of the sister of the Primal Will without any creation besides it, and established it in the station of its authority in every aspect of its essential nature.   BB00205

Know that God created the Primal Will before all things and made it at the time of existence its own cause, not anything else, for it is the First Remembrance about which the Imam, peace be upon him, said to Yunus when asked Do you know what the Primal Will is? He said No. Then Ali said It is the First Remembrance. Indeed God, through His subtle wisdom and mighty craftsmanship, has placed within it the sign of His Self-Subsistence, that it might indicate His unity in every aspect. It has seven aspects through which nothing can be clothed with existence except through them. This is the rank of the Primal Will which we express in the highest sense as the First Remembrance, with which nothing else is mentioned.  BB00114


