Although the mineral, vegetable, animal and man all have actual being, yet the mineral has no knowledge of the vegetable. It cannot apprehend it. It cannot imagine nor understand it. It is the same with the vegetable. Any progress it may make, however highly it may become developed, it will never apprehend the animal, nor understand it.  ABU0445

No lower thing can comprehend what is above it - just as the stone and tree, no matter how much they progress, cannot comprehend the reality of the animal, and the animal, no matter how much it progresses, cannot comprehend the reality of man. Thus man, no matter how much he progresses, cannot fathom the reality of the Word of God   AB04805

However much the mineral might progress to the zenith of its perfection, it can never comprehend the reality of the plant, nor its attributes and perfections; rather its ascent and progress remain within the realm wherein it was created, according to that rank and station. And however much the plant might advance in the rank of perfection, it can never reach the reality of the animal nor comprehend the sensory powers and perfections that exist in the animal kingdom, for these perfections are, in relation to it, a matter of direct experience - how then can that which lacks something comprehend its reality?  AB00247

Behold then with true sight and spiritual vision how the realities of created things exist in different ranks and diverse stations. That which exists in a lower rank cannot comprehend, much less inquire about, that which exists in a rank above it. Consider the ranks of mineral, plant, animal and man.  AB00247

A lower station cannot unveil a higher station...But the mineral world has no knowledge of man's pure world.  AB00576

For even as the plant imagines life ends with itself and has no knowledge of our existence, so the materially-minded man has no knowledge of other worlds of consciousness.  ABU1155

That which is lower cannot perceive the higher. The mineral cannot understand or feel the plant; plants cannot understand or perceive the animals; and animals cannot comprehend man.  ABU0974

For example, this tree which belongeth to the vegetable kingdom, no matter how much it may progress and acquire freshness and delicacy, can never become aware of the human realm - this is beyond its comprehension   AB01391

No lower thing can comprehend what is above it - just as the stone and tree, no matter how much they progress, cannot comprehend the reality of the animal, and the animal, no matter how much it progresses, cannot comprehend the reality of man   AB04805

The lesser can never comprehend the greater; nor the lower comprehend the higher. The mineral cannot comprehend the vegetable, nor the vegetable the animal, not the animal comprehend the man. The animal has no idea of the spiritual life in man.  ABU1868

Thus we observe that these various Kingdoms of Life are fed upon each other; but they have no conscious knowledge about each other's existence. Hence the inferior degree is entirely out of touch with the superior degree, but the upper can look down upon the lower and help it.  ABU1154

Coming to the human Kingdom we observe that the uneducated and uncivilized men are similar to the wild tribes of Africa - lower than the animals. We see that the animal does not tear to pieces and devour those of his own kind but in Africa cannibalism still is practiced in certain parts.  ABU0605

All phenomena excepting man, whether major or minor, are possessed of one aspect. For example, consider the vegetable kingdom. One piece of ground is fertile, producing fruits and flowers; another produces only thorns and thistles, while another is sterile or desert-like, producing no plants.  ABU0214

The plants and trees, however far they may progress, cannot imagine the powers of sight or of the other senses. The animal cannot imagine the human degree, that is, the spiritual powers. Thus, differences of degree are a barrier to knowledge: the inferior degree cannot comprehend the superior.  AB00395

Every being lower in the scale of creation is incapable of comprehending the stages transcending its own. The mineral is incapable of understanding the nature of the plant kingdom. The plant cannot comprehend the reality of the animal kingdom, and the animal cannot penetrate the reality of the world of man.  ABU0205

If the inability of a thing which occupies a lower rank of existence to perceive that which occupies a higher rank was itself indicative of the [non-]existence of that higher rank, then in the estimation of an animal, all the degrees of a person's intellect and perfections would be inscrutable and imperceptible.  ABU3717

Mineral and vegetable entities are unaware of the human and animal worlds. They cannot absolutely conceive it. Is it possible for a plant or a stone to appreciate the realty of hearing and sight? I ask forgiveness of God! And this although both are in the realm of contingency and so how can a transient being comprehend an eternal reality?  AB00657

The mineral being has no knowledge of the plant world - it is completely unaware, rather according to its condition denies it. Similarly, the plant being has no knowledge of the animal world - it is completely heedless and unaware, for the animal rank is above the plant rank, and the plant according to its condition is veiled from and denies the animal world.  AB00409

Every inferior degree does not grasp the experiences of a superior degree. The vegetable Kingdom is completely out of touch with the animal life. It has not the powers of hearing and sight. Similarly the animal, steeped in the faculty of sense perception does not comprehend the world of intellect. In its own language it cries out: where is the world of intellect? In like manner the unspiritual man denies the Immortality of the soul. Why? Because he is living in an inferior degree. Just as the cow denies the existence of the intellect the materialist negates the immorality of the soul.   ABU0371

The people of the world say: 'Where is the immortal world? When we look about us we do not see it. We only see the world of elements.' Therefore the Prophet says: 'Those in the station below cannot see the station above.' We are in this room, we cannot see beyond the ceiling. We are downstairs, we cannot see upstairs. For example: The mineral kingdom has no knowledge of the vegetable kingdom. The vegetable kingdom knows nothing of the animal kingdom. Nor is it possible that it should know of the animal, because it -- the vegetable -- is of a lower grade; the animal is in the higher condition.  ABU0495


Consider minerals that are but one of the effulgent rays of creation and constitute the lowest level of this world. No matter how they are perfected, they can never hope to attain unto the station of vegetables. And similarly, vegetables can never develop senses, nor can animals ever aspire to gain rational faculties and command exhibited by men. All the attributes of minerals are limited to the world of minerals, and the vegetables are bounded by their own limitations, as are the animals. They are all confined within the scope of their category of existence. Therefore, creation is hierarchical, and each level is incapable of understanding the higher realm.   ABU0398

For example, the mineral kingdom, howsoever it may advance, can never conceive of the vegetable kingdom, although both are accidental or created. The vegetable kingdom, howsoever it may advance, can never have any knowledge of the animal kingdom, and can never conceive of the human kingdom, because the animal grade and the human kingdom are above the vegetable kingdom. For instance, a flower can have no knowledge of mind, reason or spirit. The animal, howsoever it may advance, cannot know consciously the human kingdom, cannot conceive of the intellect or of the processes of reason, because the human degree or kingdom is above it, though both are accidental or created.   ABU0590

If in this merciful existence that universal spiritual existence remains unknown and unrecognized, let there be no wonder or astonishment, for every lower realm is unaware of the higher realm, just as the fetus in the womb is unaware of this world. When it transfers to the higher world it becomes aware and perceives, but before transfer, conception and comprehension are impossible. Now if the vegetable world is wholly unaware of the human world, does this prove the non-existence of the human world? No, by God! Thus, the denial by human souls of the divine world is like the denial of the mineral which has no knowledge of the vegetable world, and like the denial of the plant which has no knowledge of the animal world, and like the denial of the animal which has no knowledge of the human world.  AB00188

When thou dost carefully consider this matter, thou wilt see that a lower plane can never comprehend a higher. The mineral kingdom, for example, which is lower, is precluded from comprehending the vegetable kingdom; for the mineral, any such understanding would be utterly impossible. In the same way, no matter how far the vegetable kingdom may develop, it will achieve no conception of the animal kingdom, and any such comprehension at its level would be unthinkable, for the animal occupieth a plane higher than that of the vegetable: this tree cannot conceive of hearing and sight. And the animal kingdom, no matter how far it may evolve, can never become aware of the reality of the intellect, which discovereth the inner essence of all things, and comprehendeth those realities which cannot be seen; for the human plane as compared with that of the animal is very high.   AB00103

Prophets do not comprehend the God Essence. To comprehend the Sun of Reality we would have to be greater (than the Sun). In order to comprehend the Essence of God a Prophet would have to encompass the Infinite. The lower can never comprehend the higher, but the higher can comprehend the lower. The Mirror of the Prophet cannot expand sufficiently to comprehend the Infinite. The Prophet would have to encompass the Essence in order to comprehend It.  ABU2924
