
We follow Christ and not the priests. We give more importance to what Christ said than what the Pope and the cardinals say.   ABU3201

The Popes live in luxury in the Vatican. The Popes shed blood freely. There were only some holy men among the Popes, but not all.  ABU1873

Many of such Ministers, priests and clergy are unable to breathe even one breath of the disciples, how much more to walk in their footsteps.  ABU0289

Every year, on the occasion of the arrival of the New Year, the Pope would deliver a sermon in the church. One year he invited the Italian king to attend this ceremony.  ABU2985

But as for those Jewish doctors, Christian priests and monks who read them - verily, they know only the letter, uttering the words like parrots, without understanding their inner meanings.  AB08374

The people of the churches have abandoned the foundation and clung to principles that have no importance with God. They are like the Pharisees who prayed and fasted yet ruled to kill Christ.  AB00553

One day in California I saw a cardinal walking with pomp and ceremony in front of a procession. Inquiring about the occasion, I was told that a new church had been built and the cardinal was to officially open its doors to the public.... The cardinal had a crown set with lustrous jewels, while this cardinal's robe is made of the finest brocade of the day. This cardinal's days are spent in security and comfort, while this cardinal's home is a splendid building, like that of a king.  ABU1677


neither the divines of this age who have become corrupt and have corrupted others, and who pronounced judgment against God when He came with a Cause before which all things that were and will be created stand powerless, can hinder him.  BH01650

Ordained Ministers are many, confirmed Ministers are few. During the days of Christ there were many Rabbis and high-priests but none of them was confirmed except Paul. All of them were deprived but he became the confirmed King of the ministers.   ABU2053

like those souls who, in the Christian dispensation before the appearance of the Beauty of Ahmad [Muhammad], called people to the straight path and the mighty way, and from whose tongues shone forth the lights of knowledge and wisdom they had borrowed from the lamp of Jesus and the niche of Christ  AB04243

for they look upon the Easterners as heathens, unbaptized, unregenerated, unconfirmed and unordained while they consider themselves as the heirs and joint-heirs of the Kingdom of God and well-informed of the mysteries of Holy Writ; hence they are not willing to accept our interpretation quite readily.  ABU1363

"There are a number of Missionary Colleges in the East who are dogmatically sectarian, trying all the time to teach the students the falsity of their parents' religions and the grandeur and sublimity of Christianity. The net result has been a woeful failure, for generally the students turn out of the College with no religion."  ABU1512



And show utmost kindness to the reverend on my behalf and say that these existing clergymen are earthly, but you become a heavenly clergyman. These are bound to this mortal world, you become bound to the divine Kingdom. These are immersed in prejudice, you become free and sanctified from prejudice so that you may become an intimate companion of Christ and the apostles in the divine Kingdom  AB04080

Christ, hungry and destitute, subsisted on the herbs of the wilderness and would not consent to see any heart saddened. The Pope rides in a gilded carriage and passes his days in the utmost majesty, occupied with such pleasures and pursuits as to surpass the opulence and self-indulgence of all the kings of the earth. Christ did not harm anyone, but certain Popes put many innocent souls to death.   AB00256


After the Pope there are ranks - those who serve under him are called Cardinals, who are like the Pope's ministers. One of these Cardinals was in America and became very attached to us. He spoke at meetings and gatherings but we said nothing... There a new Catholic church had just been completed and the Cardinal went there to officially open it... the Cardinal came to open the church wearing a jeweled crown and gold-embroidered robes, holding a golden staff, and entered the church with utmost majesty, glory and grandeur  ABU3665

When the government lost its influence, naturally the influence of the clergy did not remain either. "They destroy their houses with their own hands and the hands of the believers." If they had intelligence, their benefit lay in the strength of the government's influence, but they did not understand and cast themselves into this trap and snare. Now their blessed beards are caught and no strategy remains, and they cannot bear the humiliation. This is why their cries of "O Valley! O Sacred Law!" reach to the ethereal sphere.  AB01237

Christ flung open the gates of heaven, whereas this cardinal has opened the door of an earthly church. Christ was surrounded by a large group that scorned and condemned Him as an enemy of the prophets, whereas this cardinal has gathered a great crowd of people who all revere him. Christ wore a crown, albeit one of thorns; this cardinal also wears a crown, but his is studded with gleaming gems. Christ wore clothing, though it was badly tattered; this cardinal, too, wears clothes, but his are made of silk and gold. One had a cross for His kingly seat, while the other has a golden altar and throne. One gave His life to edify humankind, while the other uses the means and lives of people to secure his own glory and comfort.  ABU3671

I said truly how ignorant people are to praise such a display. Christ suffered all manner of tribulations and calamities, wandering alone and destitute day and night in the wilderness, his food was herbs, thorns on his head, the stars of heaven his lamp, every day wandering in a desert. Now these people in the utmost pomp and glory make merry in great monasteries which are better than palaces and say 'We are the disciples of Christ.' A disciple must follow the teacher so that all his ways and conduct conform to the teachings of the master, but these people have great establishments, many endowments and revenues, and are immersed day and night in all manner of desires. Where are those breathings of detachment of Christ?  ABU0143

I heard that here they have had a great religious procession with much pomp and ceremony: a procession the likes of which was not seen before. This ceremony of the honored cardinal is like that of Christ's in Jerusalem. However, there is a slight difference. In Christ's divine ceremony, He had a crown, but it was made of thorns, while this cardinal wears a crown adorned with lustrous jewels. Christ had garments, but they were torn, while in this ceremony, the cardinal's robe is made of the finest brocade. In that ceremony, those that followed Christ were the object of [people's] contempt and abuse, while those that were with cardinal walked in great honor, pomp and glory. Christ was the target of people's insults and harm. In this procession, people showered the cardinal with their praise, salutation and support. Christ's procession was the manifestation of humility, reverence, hardship, spirituality and divine attraction, while the cardinal's is the display of might, wealth and power. Christ's throne was upon a cross, while this cardinal's place is upon a much adorned pulpit.   ABU1262
