Say: Verily He is Muhammad, the Guide, and say: I am the Promised Mahdi in the Mother Book. Say: He is the true Master Whom all were promised. Say: He is the true Qa'im in Whom all believe.   BB00273

When the Qa'im (may God hasten his appearance) appears, this station will be manifested to his followers, though only a few of them will remain, and that is the station of the complete servitude of the Shi'ih to the Imam.  BB00219

For among the authenticated traditions is that at the appearance of the Qa'im, the Imams of the Qur'an will arise from their graves and appear. They are unaware that in these days another Cause has appeared and the hidden treasure has been revealed.   BH00754

The Twelfth Imam, the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him), Who was the seal of the preceding Imams and the opener of divine favors, declared at the beginning of His manifestation and mention of the Imamate that "I am that promised One," and all the Shi'ites were awaiting the appearance of the Twelfth Imam.   AB01067

As for the traditions regarding Imam Muhammad ibn Hasan, they are all confused. Refer to them and you will see. In the treatise of Haji Mirza Muhammad Afshar those confused and varied traditions are mentioned with authentic chains of transmission. Refer to it. Some narrators have related that he was a small child who died.  AB04093

And as to what you asked about whether the origin of this Cause can be derived from the traditions transmitted from the Imams of Guidance - may the spirit of all worlds be sacrificed for them - and yet the traditions do not explicitly mention the name of the Promised One, His patronymic, His title, His place and His time in a way that common people would understand it   AB00028

As for the matter of the twelfth Imam, since in the very hadith of the Imams there are apparent contradictions - in one place they consider Muhammad ibn al-Hasan (peace be upon him) as the promised Qa'im himself, while in another place and different hadith they speak of the death of Muhammad ibn al-Hasan (peace be upon him) [and birth] of the expected Qa'im in the end times  AB00585

One of the essentials of religion and of the authentic traditions transmitted from the holy Imams, nay, the chief basis of the foundations of the church of His Highness Ja'far, is the Occultation of the immaculate twelfth Imam (upon both of them be peace). What has happened to Jabulqa? Where has Jabulsa gone? What was the Minor Occultation? What has become of the Major Occultation?  AB00003

Know thou that this perception did not originally exist in the physical world. The twelfth Imam existed in the Unseen realm, but had no reality on the material plane. However, some of the Shi'ih elders of the time deemed it advisable, solely for the protection of the weak elements among the people, to portray a person existing in the Unseen realm as being possessed of a corporal existence.  AB01629

One of the essentials of religion and of the authentic traditions transmitted from the holy Imams, nay, the chief basis of the foundations of the church of His Highness Ja'far, is the Occultation of the immaculate twelfth Imam (upon both of them be peace). What has happened to Jabulqa? Where has Jabulsa gone? What was the Minor Occultation? What has become of the Major Occultation? What are the sayings of Husayn ibn Ruh, and what the tradition of Ibn Mihriyar? What shall we make of the flight of the Guardians and the Helpers? How shall we deal with the conquest of the East and the West? Where is the Ass of Antichrist? When will the appearance of the Sufyan be? Where are the signs which are in the traditions of the Holy Family?  AB00003


This is the Qa'im Whose day all await and Who hath been promised unto all.   BB00273

Verily, I am the Qa'im Whose Day all await, and through Whom all have been promised.  BB00330

Ponder what they say concerning the news of the Qa'im, and thou shalt find them in manifest error.   BH02704

They themselves say that when the Qa'im uttereth a word, the chiefs of the earth, who are the most exalted of creation, shall turn away from it.   BH07596

The Remembrance of God was witnessed in the Most Great Word, standing round about the Fire. Hearken then unto that which thy Lord revealeth unto thee.  BB00002

Whosoever entereth therein, these are they who shall thereafter know that He is the Qa'im unto Whom all supplicate night and day, and all are promised His day.   BB00200

Say: The appearance of the Qa'im from God on the Day of Resurrection is that Day wherein God will distinguish all things with truth, until no living soul shall remain among men save to the number of the Face.  BB00004

God hath made manifest the Qaim in the true Faith from His presence. Therefore present thyself before the Letters of Truth and strive in the presence of the first to pledge allegiance to the mighty Arabian Muhammad.  BB00004

Say: The appearance of the Qa'im from God on the Day of Resurrection is that wherein God will judge between all things with truth, until there remaineth not among men the spirit of life save in the number of the face.  BB00004

The Qayyum came, and the Qa'im was standing at the Gate. We said: "Thou art the Promised One." He replied: "Nay, by thy life! He is the Imagined One Who hath been created from the imaginings of the people of the Furqan."   BH03369

And as to 'the Spirit' mentioned in His words 'The angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter' - this referreth to the Qa'im (the Promised One), while by 'the angels' are meant the Imams.  BB00068

On this, that the Qa'im, the Testimony of God, peace be upon Him, hath been manifested with verses and conclusive evidences, through the Revelation of the Point of the Bayan, which is exactly the very Revelation of the Point of the Furqan.  BB00001

These are they upon whom blessings are sent and who submit themselves. The example of this Cause is like the fire of God which He will manifest on the Day of Resurrection. Those who enter therein, they are the ones who attain certitude that He is the Qa'im whom those in the kingdoms of the heavens and earth and what lies between them await   BB00350
