Exile and imprisonment are decreed for the thief, and, on the third offence, place ye a mark upon his brow so that, thus identified, he may not be accepted in the cities of God and His countries. Beware lest, through compassion, ye neglect to carry out the statutes of the religion of God; do that which hath been bidden you by Him Who is compassionate and merciful. We school you with the rod of wisdom and laws, like unto the father who educateth his son, and this for naught but the protection of your own selves and the elevation of your stations. By My life, were ye to discover what We have desired for you in revealing Our holy laws, ye would offer up your very souls for this sacred, this mighty, and most exalted Faith.  BH00001


O peoples, do not spill blood and do not seize the goods of others.  BH09726

They that spread disorder in the land, and lay hands on the property of others, and enter a house without leave of its owner, We, verily, are clear of them, unless they repent and return unto God, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful.  BH00005

Some have regarded it as lawful to infringe on the integrity of the substance of their neighbor, and have made light of the injunction of God as prescribed in His Book. Evil fall upon them, and the chastisement of God, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, afflict them! If the whole earth were to be converted into silver and gold, no man who can be said to have truly ascended into the heaven of faith and certitude would deign to regard it, much less to seize and keep it.  BH02224

God has commanded all to be known for righteousness, religion, trustworthiness, truthfulness, purity, humanity and faithfulness. Nevertheless, they have acted with the utmost cunning and deceit in appropriating people's wealth. Some have entered various lands declaring that the property of others is permissible for the friends to take and that the law of the Book has been abrogated. We seek refuge in God from such rejected utterances and abhorrent deeds! The people of truth have no attachment or concern for their own wealth, let alone allowing their pure hands to be sullied with the property of other peoples. No one's property is lawful unto another.   BH01105
