
I was most pleased to present myself in your midst and speak with you; a meeting which believes in the spiritual power; a power which is super-natural and super-intellectual. Therefore I hope that this Theosophical Society may become helped and its members gain victory over the pillars of the world of nature who are the materialists of this age.  ABU1997

With the Theosophist group, show the utmost love and kindness and associate with them. Behave well and show love and kindness, for they have capacity. In their gatherings speak with perfect spirituality, love, unity and oneness, and make them soar until they are moved to joy and gladness and become happy and delighted. When I am present, I will certainly speak in their gatherings.  AB02265

Any of them that align with Theosophy, if you translate and publish them, there would be no harm.  AB09928

The point was then presented as to whether all men would eventually progress to the same stages of perfection. 'Abdu'l-Baha said that this is a matter of Divine Will. That although the Theosophists dwelt upon Karma and ultimate perfection, this was not to be expected, as degrees of existence must always be presented. For instance, if all men were kings there would really be no kings, as a kingdom requires ministers, soldiers, subjects, etc., etc. The goal to be reached is perfection according to kind or station, and this perfection is happiness. ABU2886

"To the theosophists be kind and considerate. They are readier to receive this Truth than many other sects."  ABU0836

Certainly go to Theosophical gatherings and give talks in those meetings. The confirmations of the Holy Spirit will reach you.  AB04080

Many of the Theosophists have said that it was necessary for people to return again and again in order to attain to perfection. But there is no spiritual benefit in mere length of time. Those who receive the Holy Spirit can instantly become perfect. Take for an illustration, the olive trees which exist for thousands of years, yet, they have not by this duration of time attained to the life and development of the animal kingdom. Whereas, a small insect existing for a few days or hours belongs to it. ABU1457

The Theosophists are educating a boy in the schools of Europe and say that he will become the promised one of all nations. How ignorant this is! God must select the Promised One, not men. The lamp that men ignite will be put out; but the Lamp of God is ever bright. He who is educated by men is always dependent on men. How can he give eternal prosperity! It is as if a person wishes to make a sun out of oil and wick. ABU2837

Furthermore, some of the Theosophists and members of the Esperanto Society attended the gathering and listened to the Divine Word with the utmost sincerity and submissiveness.   ABU2049

Convey my respectful greetings to the Theosophical Society and tell them that you have truly rendered service to the unity of the human world, for you have no ignorant prejudices and desire the unity of humanity.  ABU1744

Theosophy emerged from them [the Buddhists] but differs from them. They strongly believe in reincarnation. There are many in Europe, but they are all people who are eighty or ninety years old because they are very attached to this world. Their leader came to meet in Boston. He had written a detailed book with illustrations, then he became a believer. Now he has written works. I said to him, "Were you not satisfied with this journey that you wish to come again?" He said, "I suffered much hardship this time, the second time will be better." He had drawn three images of man: one physical image mixed with light and darkness, one behind it showing the heavenly form and the world of similitude, and another luminous image. For man's true form he had drawn a black image representing the animal nature. Every soul has an animal form which is black and pure darkness. It has a heavenly form and image which is spiritual and physical combined, having both angelic and animal nature. The luminous one is the merciful body, the divine form which is hidden in the human temple. I asked him to explain what these images meant. He would not say. I said, "Let me tell you," then he did not conceal it and said that the Theosophists have two things that people really like: one is the matter of reincarnation, saying you do not perish but simply remove one garment and put on another, and the other is being immersed in the ethereal realm with no return. In the Quran it states: "Is it that whenever there came to you a Messenger..." This does not refer to reincarnation - the Quran itself interprets it saying: "Their hearts are alike." This refers to spiritual perfections and existence. ABU0865

As for the matter of the Theosophists' philosophy, they have borrowed certain phrases from the heavenly Books but have not grasped their reality. Nevertheless, they have made these outward expressions the foundation of their doctrine and religion. But the essence of the question of unity is this: The Sun of Truth has shone forth from the horizon of oneness upon all regions. All created things are made manifest through the light of that Sun. Were it not for the Sun's light, no created thing would become manifest - all would remain hidden. Indeed, the very life of earthly creation depends upon the light and heat of the Sun, and all things, even to the smallest particles on earth, benefit from its rays and heat. Yet each created thing receives according to its own capacity and worthiness. AB00249

Give my most friendly greetings to all the Theosophists. You have risen to help humanity because you are freeing yourselves from superstition and you are casting ignorance far from your minds. You wish the welfare of mankind, and this object is a mighty one.   ABU1703

As for the Theosophical Society, if you attend their gatherings and speak about the oneness of humanity, the contents of the divine Tablets, divine spirituality, equality, unity, love and harmony among humans, and associate with utmost attraction, it will surely be beneficial.   AB03222

There is a theosophist society in India that formed an assembly in the year 1875 in Tibet, and they believe themselves to possess knowledge of the soul, and their philosophy is that of Pantheism. Associate with that community, and with the utmost joy convey to them the most great tidings.  AB05279

You must be exceedingly kind to the Theosophists. When you meet them, tell them that they are freed from blind dogmas, they are investigating the Reality, that they are very near to the Baha'i Cause. Last night I observed spiritual motion and ecstasy in the Theosophical Society. They were very alive.   ABU2003

Thou hadst written that thou arranged a joyous gathering and celebration of happiness in the home of one of the Theosophists. This Theosophical society hath the capacity to hear the Word of God. Deal with them with the utmost love, kindness, unity and oneness, that the attractive power of the Word of God may draw them to the Sun of Truth.  AB10922

The Theosophists at least have motion. They are free from ancestral prejudices. They have stepped forward, but their marching must be centralized. It is something like this. There is a "divine city" to be attained. There are some who have never left their homes. Others have stepped forth from their homes, but have not stepped toward that city.   ABU1486

In spite of all their [the Theosophists'] awareness, and notwithstanding their quest for peace - knowing as they do that a Perfect Man is needed in this perspicuous age - most of them are ignorant of this Cause and the momentousness of the advent of Baha'u'llah, which is more manifest than the sun itself. Rather, they expect that a young Indian [Krishnamurti], who at present is being groomed in Europe, will be the source of such a prodigious cause.  ABU3698
