

In truth, what has occurred is among the hidden mysteries and consummate wisdom. Verily thy Lord is All-Knowing, All-Wise  AB01232

If thou wert to know how God's decree and the ordinances of His destiny have befallen the people of truth and His kindred, and how the winds of tribulations have intensified against them, and the tempests of calamities have seized them, and the thunderbolts of death have uprooted them, and earthquakes have shaken their limbs, and the pillars have tottered, and the edifice has crumbled, and darkness has spread over all regions, and the flames of grief have been kindled between the ribs and the innermost parts - thou wouldst surely rend thy heart and tear thy garments and strike thy face and raise lamentations and crying and wailing in this grievous and momentous calamity which has caused souls to inherit sorrows and cast hearts into swooning and made eyes shed tears and turned the living into the dead and transformed the lights of joy into darkness. Oh what a calamity that has encompassed us from all directions and descended like piercing thunderbolts in the dark depths of night!  AB04979

Consider how the mother solicitously takes care of the babe, yet because the babe is not aware, it cannot appreciate the tender training showered upon her: instead it whines and cries! Reflect also, what a source of incalculable benefit is the cloud to the earth! It pours down rain and adorns the plains with verdant plants and sweet herbs: yet because the earth is not aware of this paradisical transformation, it cannot appreciate it and thank God for it. This cool breeze that is passing by, gives life to the trees, but they are unconscious of it.   ABU1780

Those places more inundated by winter's storms, where rain and sleet have fallen harder, become the freshest and loveliest flower gardens in early spring... Strong winds at last culminate in gentle breezes, and the zephyr's breath beareth the sweet fragrance of the perennial red rose. Snow in time melteth into the meadow's green, and the frozen earth is replaced with the cheerfulness of jonquil and eglantine.   AB01417

God could not have created evil...Evil is an attempted violation of a moral law. If we break that law, we suffer - we lose self-respect.  ABU2648

Thou hearest the sighing of atoms and the groaning of all created things by reason of what hath befallen Thy chosen ones and trusted ones   BH09405

Verily, the will of God engages occasionally in some matter for which mankind is unable to find out the reason. The causes and reasons shall appear.  AB08445

Be neither distressed nor saddened regarding outward affairs that pertain to God. Whatever He willeth will assuredly come to pass and be made manifest.   BH07090

Divine decrees are a hidden mystery, a concealed secret, and a guarded symbol. One must know with certainty that whatever occurs is the essence of wisdom  AB06970

regarding the matter of shortened life, scarcity of children, and constraints in sustenance - this is a consummate wisdom from the Source of divine destinies   AB05972

The mystery of destiny is a hidden matter, and the wisdom of God's decree is a guarded secret. This great tribulation is founded upon mysteries that are concealed from sight.  AB11389

The world hath ever been the abode of tribulations and calamities, but since it is transient, sorrow is unwarranted, for everlasting divine blessings and infinite mercies are ordained.   BH03963

"Can any of these circumstances be changed by prayer?" "Yes, prayer might prevent the strong wind from blowing out the light of the lamp--but it could never change the amount of oil in the lamp--that is preordained."  ABU3511

It is certain, therefore, that it hath a wisdom and a reason. If the veil were to be lifted, ye would not prefer the present life. That those who died might die after a clear proof; that He might try you which of you is best in conduct.  AB05200

"Do not think these afflictions and tribulations are confined to you. In truth, all creation is in torment so that they may not become attached to this world and instead seek comfort and rest in the divine world and pursue heavenly gifts."  AB05304

Infants are under the shadow of the favor of God, and as they have not committed any sin and are not soiled with the impurities of the world of nature, they are centers of the manifestation of bounty, and the Eye of Compassion will be turned upon them.  AB03579

In truth, the Prophet Muhammad knew well that the difficult theological problem of the relationship of divine foreknowledge and conferment of grace to human free will is veiled in obscurity, as are also the mystery of suffering and the mystery of evil, of wickedness.  ABU0414

Were I to reveal to them what Thou hast revealed to me, they would not have committed that which caused the denizens of the cities of eternity to lament. But Thou hast concealed it from them by reason of what their hands have wrought in the first life before the last.   BH09867

The purpose and goal of human suffering is manifold, and if we were to discuss the mysteries of the almighty and all-wise Creator until nightfall, we would hardly get beyond the beginning! So let us this once limit ourselves and consider only one kind of suffering, the suffering which is meant as purification.  ABU0415

Know thou that ordeals are of two kinds: One kind is for trial (to test the soul), and the other is punishment for actions. ("As a man soweth so shall he reap.") That which is for testing is educational and developmental and that which is the punishment of deeds is severe retribution.  AB08453

Be not dismayed by what hath befallen you through the decree that is established, but rather rejoice in what God hath ordained for you and inscribed as irrevocable in the Mother Book. He ordaineth for His servants only that which is better for them than all the treasures of the heavens and earth   BH03501

Evil is imperfection. Sin is the state of man in the world of the baser nature, for in nature exist defects such as injustice, tyranny, hatred, hostility, strife: these are characteristics of the lower plane of nature. These are the sins of the world, the fruits of the tree from which Adam did eat.  ABU2403

There are two kinds of afflictions, the first is human, the second is divine. Human affliction can be coped with and eradicated by human agencies and methods but when an affliction is brought down upon mankind, occasioned by their utter heedlessness and negligence the displaying of all their available forces will not be crowned with the least success.   ABU1196

A student asks about predestination, and the Master explains that there is no meaninglessness or accident - all suffering has divine purpose and meaning, even if hidden: "Earthly calamity is My providence, My will, thy fate decreed by Me, in outward appearance it is purification, fire and punishment, in truth it is light and mercy, guidance and rescue."  ABU0500

Surely there is wisdom in this illness too - it is not without reason and its wisdom will become apparent later. Otherwise I would not have fallen ill in Paris without reason. I am under divine will, not under natural law such that nature could overcome me and make me ill. No, rather it is divine wisdom and will that whatever it requires happens that way.   ABU0678


The consummate wisdom of God, however, is manifold and not every soul is apprised of its mysteries. Indeed, His all-encompassing mercy and His all-embracing wisdom entail certain exigencies that transcend the ken of human mind. Sorrow not, then, if trials, tribulations and adversities wax ever more severe, for the grace and bestowals of God are likewise unceasing.  AB04112


Calamities are of two kinds. One kind results from bad morals and misconduct such as falsehood, dishonesty, treachery, cruelty and the like. Surely, misdeeds bring forth evil consequences. The other kind is the result of the exigencies of the contingent world, of consummate divine law, and of universal relationships, and is that which is bound to happen, as, for instance, changes, alterations, life and death.  ABU2845

"In certain matters, as for instance when the sweetness of reunion is succeeded by the bitterness of parting, or when the tie of nearness and communion is sundered by the decree of separation, the breast is rent with sighs of grief and sorrow, and copious tears rain from the eyes; nevertheless, the reality of this world's happenings is that which certain philosophers have cited from the words of Idris: 'Naught is there in the realm of possibility better than that which hath been.'"  BH02726

God alone ordereth all things and is all-powerful. Why then does He send trials to His servants? The trials of man are of two kinds. (a) The consequences of his own actions. If a man eats too much, he ruins his digestion; if he takes poison he becomes ill or dies. If a person gambles he will lose his money; if he drinks too much he will lose his equilibrium. All these sufferings are caused by the man himself, it is quite clear therefore that certain sorrows are the result of our own deeds. (b) Other sufferings there are, which come upon the Faithful of God.  Consider the great sorrows endured by Christ and by His apostles! Those who suffer most, attain to the greatest perfection. ABU0936

Man is subject to every tribulation and misfortune, and each person inevitably has some grief and sorrow from one direction or another. For example, one person may have the utmost wealth but is afflicted with poor health and is therefore sorrowful. Another may be in perfect health but suffers a calamity - a child dies, or a close relative, or a dear friend - and is therefore grief-stricken. Another person is observed to have enemies who pursue him, and he is therefore dejected. And if one's happiness should be complete in all respects, he becomes the object of envy and is therefore distressed.  ABU0082

The inscrutable divine wisdom underlieth such heart-rending occurrences. It is as if a kind gardener transferreth a fresh and tender shrub from a confined place to a wide open area. This transfer is not the cause of the withering, the lessening or the destruction of that shrub; nay, on the contrary, it maketh it to grow and thrive, acquire freshness and delicacy, become green and bear fruit. This hidden secret is well known to the gardener, but those souls who are unaware of this bounty suppose that the gardener, in his anger and wrath, hath uprooted the shrub. Yet to those who are aware, this concealed fact is manifest, and this predestined decree is considered a bounty.  AB01938

