Everything is made manifest through its opposite.  AB04043

Things are known by their opposites. Until the darkness of the darkest night appears, the lights of the Sun of Truth will not be visible  AB01695

With the appearance of truth the point of Opposition raises its head. The former gains signal victory, the other goes into crushing defeat  ABU3163

Want of wealth is poverty; absence of justice is oppression; want of perfection is deficiency. All of these opposites imply non-existence and not existence.   ABU3139

opposites appear, but in reality there is no opposition. Just as in the realm of the sun there is no darkness and no east and west, but the requirements of this world are night and day, and light and darkness  ABU1436

For example, I can say that there is no darkness in the sun because darkness is the absence of light and has no existence in itself. Oppression is the absence of justice and ignorance is the lack of knowledge.  ABU2463

Man must observe every drama. There is the drama of heat and the drama of cold: the drama of Spring and the drama of Summer-the drama of happiness and of sorrow, of sickness and of health, of shame and of glory, of freedom and of prison   ABU2945

You know which path to follow: you cannot be mistaken, for there's a great distinction between God and evil, between Light and darkness, Truth and falsehood, Love and hatred, Generosity and meanness, Education and ignorance, Faith in God and superstition, good Laws and unjust laws.   ABU3323

We know things by their opposites. Knowledge is more appreciated when we observe the stultifying influence of ignorance. Sight and hearing is more thought of when we see the conditions of the blind and the deaf ones. A person living on the border of a flowing river all his life does not know what thirst is.   ABU0844

Among the proofs of the existence of a divine power is this: that things are often known by their opposites. Were it not for darkness, light could not be sensed. Were it not for death, life could not be known. If ignorance did not exist, knowledge would not be a reality. It is necessary that each should exist in order that the other should have reality.  ABU0122

For example, so long as this lamp is burning in this room, irradiating ligh[t] to all directions, no one is especially moved to make a comment upon it, but if we are suddenly plunged into a great darkness, we will all exclai[m] what a good and valuable thing a lamp is! The fish disports itself quite heedlessly in the water, never suspecting tha[t] it alone is the preserver of its life, but when it is thrown out of the water, it realizes the truth.  ABU0682

To make it plainer for you, if there were no wealth in the world, you would not have poverty. If there were no light in the world, you could not conceive of darkness, for we know things philosophically by their antitheses. We know, for example, that poverty is the lack of wealth. Where there is no knowledge, there is no ignorance. What is ignorance? It is the absence of knowledge.   ABU0102

"This world contains opposites - sometimes there is abundance and sometimes hardship, sometimes joy and sometimes sorrow and tribulation, sometimes the season of youth and sometimes the time of weakness. It does not remain in one state."  AB04365
