This material health is of no great importance.  ABU3445

One must escape the prison of body and soar into the air!   BH04998

Pass beyond the world and set your face toward the city of the Beloved.  BH01509

Therefore, O friends, forget the earthly world and turn to the divine realm   AB02606

No man can be happy without God, though he may not know why he is miserable.   ABU3616

May you ascend to such a world that you may behold all creation beneath you!   ABU2189

He must not look backward, he must look forward; not downward, but heavenward   ABU2870

Let your resolve be lofty, and soar ye in this pure atmosphere on the wings of detachment.   BH02948

That thou mayest sever thyself from this world and soar up to the Universe of the Creator!   AB05941

"God hath changed the prison into the Most Exalted Horizon and hath named it with all names"   BH05122

they attain eternal realization in the world of existence and find everlasting determination   AB01156

Do not let the vicissitudes of this world sadden you, then ascend to the heaven of faithfulness   BH01447

thou wilt become entirely free from the physical conditions and wilt soar to the spiritual realms  AB10350

if you seek sovereignty over both worlds, set your foot upon the crown of sovereignty and the world   AB06254

May people become freed from the quagmires of the world of matter and soar upward to the city of light.  ABU1155

when thou art freed from physical limitations, divested of human conditions, and become a celestial angel  AB09390

That it may free the souls from the darkness of the world of nature. May illumine them by the Divine Light.  AB08622

Happy are ye that have turned to God and have raised your sight from this material world to the realm above.  AB09493

Rather, he shall behold all creation as nonexistent and shall turn towards the direction of the All-Merciful.   BH06403

Lord, cause this luminous youth to be immersed in a divine, spiritual state sanctified from physical conditions   AB07171

that which will guide all from poverty, weakness and vain imaginings to the horizons of wealth, power and certitude.   BH07593

"This arena is vast and unlimited; therein the charger of spirit must move swiftly, for here one cannot travel by foot"  AB03622

it would be more beneficial to their spiritual state, as they would not have witnessed human thoughts and earthly deeds.  BHU0039

The wealth of which thou hast been thus deprived shall be transformed into endless riches and the treasure chests of heaven!   AB07569

Enable others, too, to free themselves from this material world so that they may soar in the limitless expanse of the Kingdom.   AB05164

Deliver us from this world of vain imaginings and cause us to reach the endless world. Make us detached from the world of nature  AB05754

I hope that this trip will make thee wholly spiritual, and become entirely dismantled from the requirement of the physical world.  AB05979

For those souls who enter beneath the shade of God's all-embracing Word manifest the highest existence even in a particle of dust  AB11935

Then raise them up to such heights that the world shall not prevent them from turning unto Thee, from gazing toward Thy direction   BH06581

Bodily health is not important. What is more important is spiritual health which gives eternal pleasure and has everlasting effect.  ABU3003

Freedom is this: that man gains deliverance from captivity to the world of nature and becomes a prince in the city of eternal glory.   AB05130

Man has the power of knowledge which will exalt him to Heaven, and the power of ignorance which will debase him to the lowest condition.  ABU1999

We should not always be focused on physical comfort, but rather should seek a high purpose and goal even if it is contrary to bodily ease.  ABU2059

Do not be captives of materiality, be free of these bonds, for animals are captives of materiality but humans are not. God created them free.  ABU0318

While in this earthly homeland bind thy heart to the world of purity, and while in this dark domain turn thy face unto the illimitable realm.   AB05531

Tell your dear friend that although you are in the north, but in the east; although you are on earth, I pray God that you may become heavenly.  AB01378

In this transient realm, raise high the banner of divine knowledge, so that thou mayest attain the eternal realm and seek everlasting sovereignty   AB03169

thou shalt spread thy wings and soar from the depths of earth to the heights of heaven, ascending from this elemental world to the most luminous realm  AB04194

Wert thou informed with the science of anatomy thou wouldst have realized that this human mechanism and these material organs cannot last more than 120 years.  ABU3368

Thou wilt be weary of the degrading stages of the nether world of matter, and wilt ascend to the blessed and manifest height of the Beauty of the Desired One.  AB08949

In man's nature there must be a desire to ascend and not to descend. The underground air is suffocating. It would have been better if we had gone by road above.   ABU3301

The duty of man is to overcome the lower nature by the omnipotence and positiveness of the higher. He must not let his nobler sentiments be stifled and asphyxiated.  ABU0999

when you become freed from physical limitations, divest yourself of human conditions, and become a heavenly angel, the mercy of all worlds, and the gift of spiritual beings  AB09390

Spread thy wings and fly until thou dost reach a world that is sanctified above description and explanation, and exalted above the understanding of the peoples of the world.  AB06193

your soul will feel more and more liberated and released from the fetters of the narrow, trivial, mean and empty, you will grow eagle's wings for the highest flights of thought   ABU3103

This is the time of Solomonic grandeur and the season of spiritual sovereignty, and that servitude at the Sacred Divine Threshold - this is eternal dominion and everlasting crown-bearing.  AB11488

Indeed, the world and the hereafter are two states. If you turn towards God, exalted be He, then you are in paradise and if you regard your self then you are in the fire and in the world.   BB00297

Your hands and feet will be working but your heart must be attached to the Almighty. The body of man is created for this world but his heart is made for the habitation of the Holy Spirit.   ABU2111

Until man becomes free, he cannot fulfill his service at the Divine Threshold. Until he finds deliverance from the abasement of attachment to this world, eternal glory will not be unveiled.  AB02541

"If the earthen house and mortal dwelling-place was burned, yet I hope that thou mayest build thy nest and abode, like unto the birds of holiness, in the Tree of Life in the Divine Kingdom."  AB01074

Although they are as fishes I hope that they may be changed into birds and soar upward toward the immensity of this glorious space. Then they will behold nature in all its ravishing beauty.   ABU2484

Wherefore dwell thou ever in the Kingdom, and be thou oblivious of this world below. Be thou so wholly absorbed in the emanations of the spirit that nothing in the world of man will distract thee.  AB05227

Fix not your gaze upon these fleeting days, nor be ye saddened by whatsoever befalleth you therein. Rather, fix your gaze upon that which hath been ordained in the Kingdom for His devoted men and women   BH09575

Beware lest thou grieve at what hath befallen thee in this transient life, for it shall pass and come to an end, while that which hath been ordained for thee in the tablets of might shall enduringly remain   BH05541

It is evident that spiritual friends who dwell in the divine nest must pass beyond the dust and transcend the spheres, lift their feet from the earth and step into the sacred precincts of the Lord of Lords.  BH02550

You would become so spiritual that no trace of the physical realm and the affairs of this world would remain in the essence of your being. Your inner and outer reality would become a pure and sanctified spirit.   AB06764

from its contents it became known that you have a desire to draw near to God and that you are averse to the world of self and passion and the darkness of nature. Your aim is divine illumination and heavenly grace.  AB06271

When the lights of the favors of the Divine Unity encompass someone, they completely forget their physical condition. Sight no longer has any power in the kingdom of existence - the sovereign of spiritual insight rules supreme  AB05160

I swear by the Dawning-Place of Revelation, shouldst thou become aware of it, thou wouldst behold thyself in a station that is sanctified, holy and pure from the clouds and conditions and vain imaginings of the world of creation.  BH07887

The physical world has no authority, and the sensations of this mortal realm have no effect. The spirit must be in a state of joy and follow the signs, turn toward the Kingdom on high and receive bounties from the realm of might.  AB11861

When the heart is full of the love of God it loses consciousness of the body. Then pain is as pleasure, then darkness is as light! If such a one is shut in a prison there are no walls for him, no solitude, he knows not a prison!   ABU2370

Pass beyond this earthly plane that thou mayest behold the lights of the realm above and attain the celestial sovereignty. Free thyself from the vain imaginings of the ignorant that thou mayest raise aloft the banner of divine mysteries.  AB07614

You pray and we too will pray that people may turn away from the world of nature and seek godly feelings and find spiritual attractions and become enkindled with the fire of divine love and be quickened by the spirit of heavenly bestowal.   AB02963

God in His infinite goodness has exalted us to so much honour, and has made us masters over the material world. Shall we then become her slaves? Nay, rather let us claim our birthright, and strive to live the life of the spiritual sons of God.  ABU0276

Through spiritual power humans can free themselves from this captivity, through divine laws can find salvation from these perils - becoming luminous instead of dark, living instead of dead, seeing instead of blind, unlimited instead of limited.  ABU0886

Therefore for all of us it is far better to spread our wings and fly from this perilous depth, entering a world that is sanctified from these dangers, so that we may find rest in that soul-stirring atmosphere of the Ever-Living, the Omnipotent One.   AB07523

I hope that thou art occupied with the sweet fragrances of the love of the Beloved and the breezes of attraction to the countenance of the Desired One, having transcended the world and all who dwell therein and hastened to the realm of placelessness.  BH08751

Pray that our Happiness be divine in origin and not parasitical; our progress be ideal and not wholly material; the sphere of our intellect be vast, our cognate faculties be marvelous, our severance he perfect and our sanctity and holiness be heavenly.   ABU2011

His soul soars in the life-giving atmosphere of the divine realm even though his body may fall to the bottom of a pit. His conscience takes wing in the celestial expanse of the All-Merciful's bounty even though his person may be bound in chains and cage.   AB05230

When thou findest the way to the Kingdom, the earthly world shall be of no account; and when thou art illumined the darkness will not affect thee--nay, rather the four corners of the earth will then be radiant and every thorn will become a rose and a rose-garden.  AB05095

Through the power of the Kingdom, man is saved from the grasp of nature by the sanctified Manifestations of God and is illumined by the light of divinity. That is, he is released from the clutches of the animal world and guided to the highest pinnacle of humanity.  ABU1172

The pure heart is like a mirror - no matter how far the mirror may be from the sun, it still reflects the lights more than all other things and shows forth the manifestations of mysteries. Thus, capacity and purity of heart is the condition, not physical proximity.  ABU0738

One must have been retrograded to the lowest point as to be perfectly satisfied with eating, drinking and sleeping. The enjoyment of man comes through the unfoldment of his intellect, intelligence, the virtues of the world of humanity and the divine characteristics.  ABU2552

The world of mankind is an animal world, not until man is spiritually born again out and away from the womb of nature i.e., become wholly detached from it, can he cease to remain a perfect animal. It is the Divine Teachings that convert this animal into a human soul.   AB00374

Observe the world and its affairs, its changes, decline and extinction, and hold fast unto that whereby thy mention shall be exalted throughout the immortality of names and thy deeds shall endure throughout ages which none save God, the Lord of all worlds, hath knowledge of.  BH11438

These souls have another flight and another song. They speak of another world and call to another realm. The world of nature is dark and narrow; they seek progress in the world of the Kingdom. They are free from every bond and detached from the contaminated world of water and clay.   AB01001

These poor people are being killed and don't know why they are sacrificing their lives for dirt - dirt which is the lowest of created things...What a difference between these and those - between souls who sacrifice themselves for dirt and souls who sacrifice themselves for the Blessed Beauty  ABU0544

By attaching no importance to material things. According to the laws which bind us to this planet, everyone is tied to the gratification of self, to the satisfying of desires. What I meant for you is that you may be freed - that you may become the embodiment of spirit - that you may become an angel.   ABU2483

So that ye may become abstracted from ought else save God, your spirits may take higher flights, the sphere of your thoughts may be widened, the spiritual susceptibilities become predominant, the material emotions be entirely forgotten and all be submerged in the luminous sea of the Breaths of the Holy-Spirit.   ABU1129

Days shall pass and precious life shall end, and when the evening of death arrives and the dawn of the hereafter breaks, all comfort shall become hardship and all profit shall become loss - except for the afflictions of the friends, the tribulations of the oppressed, and the trials of those who suffered persecution  AB02563

In these days when people assemble together the conversation is all about the acquiring of wealth. Man in this way becomes self-centered, spirituality leaves him, and he becomes like children who delight to play with pebbles on the shore. When a matured man associates with children, his heart will become depressed.  ABU1733

And if it were higher than luminous bodies like the light of a candle or lamp, they do not perceive the things they reveal and see and know. But with all its elevation, the light of mind is limited by conditions and time because it cannot reveal and see and understand things except after their creation and formation.  ABU1297

The eagle soaring to the heights of glory would never build its nest and dwelling in the branches of this transient, lowly dust-heap. The divine leviathan would never take up residence in a mere stream of contingent being, and the lion of the Lord's springtime would never make its abode in the jungle of vain imaginings and desires.  AB09192

If they be birds of the meadow of divine knowledge, they must needs spread their wings and take flight unto the branches of the gardens of oneness, and if they be fish of the ocean of love, they must needs move and swim forth. The wingless bird is but a worm of the earth, and the waterless fish is but dark dust in the lowest depths.   AB08863

But humans, through knowledge, can breach nature's law. Through the power of knowledge, they can break nature's order. Though an earthly being with spirit, humans can ride upon the sea, soar in the air, move beneath the waters, seize the sword from nature's hand and strike at nature's heart. All this is accomplished through the power of knowledge.  ABU0121

The lights of earthly sovereignty shall eventually fade, yet the light of this torch shall endure even from all eternity to all eternity. The more this light burneth, the more shall its radiance wax and its rays more resplendent shine, for the oil of this lamp is guidance from the All Merciful and its wick is provided through the bounty of the Lord.  AB08882

We are not physical beings, He said, but spiritual bodies. We must thank GOD for our spiritual existence. The body is earthly, but the spirit is heavenly. The first is of this world, and the second belongs to the Kingdom. The first is of the attributes of darkness and the other of illumination. The first is limited to space the second is Placeless and Limitless.   ABU1180

This is the station of simple radiance which shines forth and makes them separate from all worldly things, and this leads them to such a condition that while they are walking on the earth, they are moving in the supreme Horizon. They have cut themselves off entirely from worldly conditions, and while they are on the earth they never see it, but look to the Horizon.  ABU0313

Consider those persons whose lives were limited to material concerns, who took no share of the life of the soul. Their traces have become completely obliterated. No mention, no sign, no fruit, no name from them remains. Even on this speck of dust, neither tomb nor trace. At most, for a few days their tombs were inhabited, only to become covered with earth and vanish.  ABU0182

My hope is that you may become free from the material world and strive to understand the meaning of the heavenly world, the world of lasting qualities, the world of truth, the world of eternal kingliness, so that your life may not be barren of results, for the life of the material man has no fruit of reality. Lasting results are produced by reflecting the heavenly existence.   ABU0411

The Love of GOD is that peculiar kind of bond which is not subject to corruption; whereas, other bonds, other loves, are subject to instantaneous corruptive changes. For the least cause such another love might be changed into hate. It owes its origin to a cause; when the cause is removed, the effect will likewise disappear. But the Love of God is not dependent upon material causes.   ABU0958

But in the view of God's loved ones, this world and survival therein and the endurance of traces in this world hold absolutely no importance. Their concern is to establish in another world, to build foundations in the highest horizon rather than this lowest earth. They seek neither name nor sign nor foundation in this world, for they see that this world's foundation is built upon wind.   ABU0635

But the life of man is not so restricted; it is divine, eternal, not mortal and sensual. For him a spiritual existence and livelihood is prepared and ordained in the divine creative plan. His life is intended to be a life of spiritual enjoyment to which the animal can never attain. This enjoyment depends upon the acquisition of heavenly virtues. The sublimity of man is his attainment of the knowledge of God.   ABU0294

Reflect carefully & then you will realize to what extent man is physically a prisoner to the laws of nature - The slightest draught - a little cold will make him ill or some heat will incommode him - A small mosquito -bite may become deadly for him. This is in relation to his physical reality, but his intellectual or his ideal reality is victorious over all phenomena and with that power he conquers the world of nature.  ABU0163

God has deposited in man the ideal power. The animal kingdom is deprived of the enjoyment of that ideal power which is in man and which enables him to discover the realities of things. This reality, this ideal reality, causes men to attain to knowledge of the aesthetic world. This ideal power prompts man to become informed of the knowledge of God. This ideal power prompts man to ascend heavenward and to discover the mysteries of God.   ABU0116

Now we come to the subject. By enduring ascetic hardships, the powers of nature will undergo dissolution, which will result in great weakness whereby one is made incapable of doing anything. He will not show any temper. He will not do any corruption. He will not cause a riot. He is quiet. He is wronged. He is like a lamb. But this is due to weakness. But he who has attained spiritual asceticism acquires these attributes by the strength of character.   ABU0687

Consider how he seeks knowledge of everything except knowledge of God. For instance, his utmost desire is to penetrate the mysteries of the lowest strata of the earth. Day by day he strives to know what can be found ten meters below the surface, what he can discover within the stone, what he can learn by archaeological research in the dust... How much he is attracted to the mysteries of matter, and how completely unaware he is of the mysteries of Divinity!  ABU0112

This is so except for those souls who are truly believers in God, believers in the signs of God, attracted to the Kingdom of God, and in truth turned toward God. Such souls have been freed from the clutches of nature. After having been ruled by nature, they become rulers over nature; after having been defeated by nature, they become victorious over nature. Nature invites man to passion and desire, while the love of God draws man to the realms of sanctity and holiness.  ABU0135

O handmaid of God! The treasures of earth are corrupted by rust and moth, as Christ hath said, and thieves break in and steal them, and in the end they vanish like scattered dust. They profit not the wealthy except those who spend them in the path of God upon the poor and weak out of love for their Generous Lord. But the treasures of heaven are preserved and protected with God. Nothing can corrupt them and no thief can steal them. Blessed is the one who acquireth from that mighty treasure.  AB01279

How shall it ever become happy and joyous, unless it first forgets all save God and turns its gaze from this nether world to that which is in the realms above, beholds the reality of the concourse on high, and earnestly beseeches the assistance of the divine kingdom of Abha? Unless man forgets all save God, withdraws his gaze from this base world and beholds that which exists in the world above, unless he turns his attention to the Concourse on High and derives illumination from the Abha Kingdom.  AB03481

The world of nature is darkness upon darkness, and its illumination comes through divine knowledge. The glory of the human world lies in divine love. The outcome of life is entrance into the Kingdom of God, and the fruit of existence is to be characterized by divine attributes. If man is deprived of these divine lights, he becomes lower than the animal. But if his face is illumined by the lights of God's love and his heart adorned with divine knowledge, he will soar beyond the world of limitations.  ABU0310

In the view of the earthworms, the sign of intelligence is to delve into the lower strata of the earth. If any creature turns toward the higher strata, the lowly earthworms call it mad, saying it knows not its own good and recognizes not its own benefit. Although in the lower strata there are thousands of loads of earthly filth, it deprives itself of these and hastens to the higher strata where there is neither mire nor clay, neither putrefaction nor moisture - only air and sky and meadow and purity.   AB02720
