
The "Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah" ordained, in the days of His corporeal existence (i.e. during His lifetime), that the Holy Book of Laws and Ordinances (Kitab-i-Aqdas) should not be translated into other languages. The time will come one day when the International House of Justice will decide when and into what western languages the "Holy Book" of the "Most Exalted Pen" (Baha'u'llah) may and should be translated.  ABU0200

Whatever is permissible for publication in these days is given permission to be published, for every time has its requirements. As for the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, in the blessed days permission was not granted to anyone to make copies, as circumstances required. Now it has been printed and published. If the Kitab-i-Aqdas were to be printed, it would be published and fall into the hands of contemptible fanatics, therefore it is not permitted. Yes, some apostates like Mirza Mehdi Beg, among the waverers, obtained it and published it, but this was included in the writings of apostates. Since their hatred and enmity is well-known to all, their words and accounts are regarded as dubious and unclear. But if the Baha'is were to publish it, it would be quite another matter. The Quran was confined to the scribes of revelation for twenty-six years; it was disseminated during the time of the Caliphs, and even then it was limited to a few copies. AB11143

...The time has not yet arrived, even in those countries (America), to spread Tablets and Epistles with the utmost freedom, but it will soon come.  AB11579

Regarding Some Answered Questions of 'Abdu'l-Baha, write to Mr. Dreyfus to send its English and French versions to Iran - this is very good and appropriate, even necessary, and they should send many copies. But sending the Persian version is not wise at present - it will be sent later.  AB02909

Together with a group of friends you have undertaken the printing and translation of heavenly treatises and are striving to spread the divine fragrances so that the banner of clear verses may wave over the mountains and hills of that land. I beseech God to grant great success and make you a clear standard. AB02566

Act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. All His Books will be translated. Now is the time for you to live in accordance with His words. Let your deeds be the real translation of their meaning.   ABU0689

A committee is essential for the translation of the Sacred Writings that is expert in several languages.   ABU3574

However, the work is difficult because the Divine Tablets are not yet sufficiently translated into the German language.  AB12209

Study Persian and acquire it more day by day, for by the study of this language great and boundless results are obtained.  AB04430

"you have exerted the utmost effort in translating some of the utterances"  AB12465

There is no harm if the letters that 'Abdu'l-Baha wrote to the Parsis are translated into Gujarati and given to some of the Parsis   AB05660

Mr. Ali Quli Khan has translated the Kitab-i-Iqan and it was sent with him so that it can be published and circulated in that land.   AB00339

"Your former song was translated into Persian verse by the maidservant of God, Taereh Khanum. It is done with great beauty and eloquence."   AB04788

There is no objection to properly translating the talks given in London and Paris and to translating and publishing some of the Tablets in Esperanto  AB12456

"Translate the hidden words, the words of Paradise, Tajalleyat, Tarazat, the Baha'i proof[s] and other small pamphlets containing short historical accounts."  ABU2357

Make an effort to study properly, that thou mayest, God willing, translate and interpret the verses of the Divine Books for the handmaidens of the All-Merciful.  AB08514

The Ishraqat, Tajalliyat, Kalimat, Bisharat, and Tarazat - such Tablets which consist of counsels and exhortations - should certainly be translated and disseminated.  AB10258

If you translate and publish the Hidden Words into Russian that would be most acceptable, and if you also translate Some Answered Questions that too would be fitting.  AB04798

What you need is to acquire complete eloquence and fluency in the English language, translation of letters sent, translation of the utterances and speeches of Abu'l-Fadl   AB01236

These verses will soon be translated into English poetical form and then this Divine Song will rise from those lands and reach the ABHA Kingdom in utmost joy and happiness.  AB02954

Regarding translation as well, you exert the utmost effort and I have complete trust in this service of yours. Send a Persian copy of whatever writings are translated into German.  AB12534

These, had they known Persian and understood Arabic, would have been greatly moved, but the means have not yet been made available for a proper and complete translation of these Tablets.  ABU0561

The Hidden Words which he has translated into Esperanto and sent a copy of - truly he has rendered service to the Kingdom of God and likewise done great service to the Esperanto language.  AB00925

Acquire the Persian tongue, so as to learn of the meanings of the divine words and to know the divine mysteries, to develop an eloquent speech and to translate the blessed Tablets of Baha'u'llah  AB09814

You wrote about printing the translation of the Iqan - this is very acceptable, but you must bring it to Istanbul so they can refine the text in eloquent Ottoman Turkish, for Ottoman Turkish is very sweet. Then print it.  AB01697

However, if translating the article into Russian and publishing and distributing it has no harm, then carry it out. But if you translate the Letter of the East and West, it would be very appropriate to send it to Tolstoy.  AB03676

please assemble the translations of the tablets of Tajalliyat, Kalimat, Ishraqat, Bisharat and Tarazat along with translations of some of my detailed letters regarding the oneness of mankind and the unity of the East and West  AB01509

you can obtain the translation of some of His Tablets from America, as well as copies of the talks that I delivered in America and Europe, some of which are printed in newspapers and some have already been compiled and published   AB04781

Respecting the translating of Miss Barney's book, in which thou hast engaged thyself, it is very agreeable; but thou must communicate concerning this with Miss Barney herself. She will assist thee in its publication and spreading   AB05987

God willing, you will succeed in learning the language mentioned and will translate the verses of God into that language, so that the people of the West may become informed of the Dayspring of Divine Revelation and what hath been sent down from His presence.  BH06448

As to the establishing of a Bureau of Translation, this great matter is an excellent matter and this great service is an excellent service to the Cause of God; until the Divine Tablets may be translated in the most eloquent style and be spread in those remote countries.  AB12784

Therefore it has become necessary and obligatory that some Tablets be translated into Hindi and published, including the Essay, Tajalliyat, Bisharat, Kalimat, Tarazat, Ishraqat and others. If you can, translate these Tablets with utmost speed and eloquence and publish them   AB03380

As regards the translation and publication of the Bayan, there are laws in the Bayan which have been abrogated by the Kitab-i-Aqdas and the Baha'is are bound by the laws of the Kitab-i-Aqdas. Were the Bayan to be published and translated, the peoples of the other countries -- and indeed even the Persians -- would think that the basis of the religion of the Baha'is was those severe laws which are found in the Bayan. Whereas according to the explicit text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas those laws are not applicable. Therefore, the Bayan must be published in all parts and corners of the world after the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, so that readers may know that those severe laws have been abrogated and canceled. Before the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas and its translation, and before its laws become well known, the publication of the Bayan is not permissible. AB06330

A person is needed who is well versed in Persian, Arabic and English. Then it will become good. A single individual cannot do it satisfactorily. Among those which are translated, the translation of the Iqan is not fair to a certain extent. In future a committee will be formed. They will translate.   ABU0305

Regarding communications between East and West, this is of the utmost importance. You must most assuredly promote this matter. Mirza Amin must exert his utmost effort in translating these letters that go from East to West or from West to East, for this is the greatest service and virtue - better than a hundred thousand doctorates.  AB11146

It was written to Bombay to send the article with utmost speed, and it shall be written to Aqa Siyyid Mustafa to translate speedily into Hindi the Tajalliyat, Ishraqat, Tarazat, Kalimat, and Bisharat - these Tablets - and send them to you. Some American publications are being sent so that you may also spread those publications there.  AB09840

You have come to assist me by translating His Sacred Writings as well as my letters to the friends in America and elsewhere in the West. Rest assured, the Blessed Perfection will enable you to translate the Arabic into English. Rest assured that as time goes on you will be assisted to translate from the Arabic much more easily than from the Persian.   ABU2864

As to the translation of the Surat-el-Hykl, at present we do not find a translator who can give it its merit. God willing, in the future a committee shall be organized whose members are experts in Arabic, Persian and English. By that perfect committee, the Surat-el-Hykl will be translated, but one person cannot arise and give the translation that it deserves.  AB00643

Regarding what you wrote about printing the Writings in the government press... some of Blessed Beauty's Writings have been requested from foreign countries to be printed together with their translations and sent to foreign lands, including Ishraqat and Tajalliyat. Since there are many seekers in Europe, great benefits would result if permission for printing is granted.   AB11671


Regarding what you wrote about translating and publishing the divine Tablets, this is not advisable at present, for it would quench people's thirst. First, souls must be made thirsty, then the sweet and flowing water should be offered. If the sacred writings were now translated, published and distributed, everyone who obtained a Tablet would be content with reading it and say, "I am now familiar with the foundations of this community and need investigate no further." Yet the Tablets must be expounded by an expounder - that is, the expounder must first establish the foundation, and after presenting the proofs, then recite a Tablet; only then will it have effect. Consider how much the Torah and the Gospel have been translated into various languages, published and distributed, yet not one soul has developed love for Christ through reading these books. Thus it is clear that publication and distribution is not advisable.  If it seems absolutely necessary, translate articles and publish those.

...translate at least one page every day, either from English into Persian or from Persian into English, thus they may gain efficiency in this line of work. He recommended that in the future when the means are provided a committee of translators be organized of both nationalities who know the two languages well in addition to Arabic. Then the Tablets will be properly translated.   ABU3175

You are the first person who translated some of the Tablets and words of the Ancient Beauty and became the cause of the unveiling of truth. This virtue will remain forever established among the Baha'is and will not be forgotten throughout centuries and ages. Be assured that it will be inscribed in golden letters in future centuries and will spread far and wide, and this is fitting.   AB03227

You had written that you had translated several treatises and tablets into Danish and sent them to Europe during the days of the war, but no word has yet been received about them. Since it was wartime, therefore the response from Europe was delayed. Now that war has been transformed into peace, it is hoped that the translation of those tablets and treatises will be published in Denmark.  AB08302

Now the important task is the translation of Ishraqat, Kalimat, Tarazat and Bisharat. These four Tablets are very suitable for the Egyptians and will have a great effect. However, the translation must be in the utmost eloquence and excellence. You, along with Sheikh Farajullah and another person whom you deem suitable from among skilled writers, should translate and publish these Tablets.  AB08330

Regarding the recent letters from Iran that you wrote about - their translation, publication and dissemination, and how they increased the spiritual sentiments of the Western friends toward their Eastern counterparts, such that in every home and dwelling, in gatherings and meetings, they are remembered and their praise and attributes bring joy to hearts and move souls - it is just as you wrote.  AB04887

We beseech God to make of thee to be a sign of fluency and the ensign of eloquence in the translation of the Secret of Divine Civilization into Arabic. Whereas the standard is the translation of the Ishraqat (Splendours), the Bisharat (Glad Tidings), the Kalimat (Words of Paradise), the Tajalliyat (Effulgences), and the Tarazat (Ornaments) in the most wondrous of expression and the most fluent of words.   AB05905

Likewise, whenever it is possible a committee must be organized for the translation of the Tablets. Wise souls who have mastered and studied perfectly the Persian, Arabic, and other foreign languages, or know one of the foreign languages, must commence translating Tablets and books containing the proofs of this Revelation, and publishing those books, circulate them throughout the five continents of the globe.   AB00032

Regarding the printing of the Tablets that you had written about - if it is possible and wisdom permits, explicitly seek permission from His Imperial Majesty or His Excellency the Prime Minister, saying that they have requested from Europe and America for the Tablets of Ishraqat, Tajalliyat and Bisharat to be translated into English and French with utmost eloquence, and for the original and translations to be printed and sent to those regions   AB11829

Rather, printing and multiplying tablets indiscriminately causes the value of God's verses to be diminished. Observe that when the Qur'an was printed, they used it to wrap medicines in apothecary shops. Likewise observe how much it was printed and published and fell into the hands of other peoples who recited it. Therefore, the divine verses must be given proper dignity and standing. Furthermore, it is not in the interest of the Cause today for divine verses to fall into people's hands.   AB01826

Concerning the Tablets of the Kings. If they are translated and published it will be very useful, but one person alone cannot do the translation. A committee must be organized the members of which are well-read and erudite in both Arabic and English languages; so that such a committee may engaged in the translation and not a single individual. All the translations up to the present time have been the result of individual endeavor; therefore the results are not obtained in a befitting and behooving manner.  AB01474

Regarding the printing of the translation of the book's introduction about the interpretation of sacred scriptures that you had written about - this translation requires the utmost care. Mr. Haddad must exert his utmost effort that it may be in the most wonderful expressions and with perfect eloquence and excellence, even if this necessitates consulting with linguists. Then its printing will be necessary. Concerning the translation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, something was also written to Anton Effendi himself.  AB05956

Concerning the effect of translation, it is evident that is not as effective as the original. For instance the Tablets of His Holiness Baha'u'llah which have been translated from Persian or Arabic, the original text exerts a wonderful power, while translation may produce certain effect but cannot be measured with the original. The delicacy, smoothness and sweetness of the Words of His Holiness Baha'u'llah are beyond any human conception. It is, however, conditioned upon one's knowledge of Persian and Arabic.   AB02710

Perfect translation will be made at a time when a committee of translators is organized. The members of that committee must be composed of several Persians and several Americans, all of whom must have the utmost proficiency in both the Persian and English languages. Then the Tablets will be translated through this committee. For the present the organization of such a committee is not possible. Therefore, whenever the publication of a Tablet becomes necessary, have a proficient person translate it, then circulate it and the end will be attained.   AB00820

You had written that you intend, together with the friends in Calcutta and Bombay, to undertake the translation of some of the Tablets into the Hindi language. This purpose is most acceptable, however at present it should be those letters which this servant has written about the oneness of the human world and the teachings of Baha'u'llah that were written regarding good character and kindness to humanity and conduct according to divine good-pleasure - those letters should be translated, and after some time the Glad Tidings and Splendors and Words and Ornaments   AB02910

Regarding the translation of the Tablets about which thou didst write: God willing, a translation committee will be formed to translate the Tablets with the utmost eloquence and excellence. However, if thou shouldst translate some of the Tablets, such as the Tajalliyat and Ishraqat, and publish them, this would be most suitable. Only the Kitab-i-Aqdas must be translated by a complete committee that is well-versed in the mysteries of its laws. It is difficult for a single person, and God willing, when the foundation for translation is established, it is hoped that thou too wilt be included.  AB12666

the translation must be in the utmost eloquence and excellence, but no matter how eloquent and excellent the translation may be, it cannot be compared to the original, for those words issued from the pure mouth while these words issue from the human pen - there is an infinite difference between them. However, since the Persian friends are not familiar with the Arabic language, translation is permitted so that they may catch a fragrance from the rose garden of inner meanings. But those who undertake the translation must be persons who have complete mastery and experience in both Arabic and Persian and who translate with a flowing talent.   AB04885

It is impossible to study medicine in Iran, since they teach [traditional] Iranian medicine, which is obsolete. It is the modern techniques of medicine that must be acquired. For that purpose, Europe is better. The Faith of God has not penetrated Paris and the fire of the love of God has not enkindled her people to the depth it should. Of certainty, there is wisdom in this. One reason is that, so far, a competent translator has not been found who not only can speak, but also has a thorough command of the language. Sometimes, a translation is better than the original. A translator must fully comprehend the meaning [and the context] of the words.   ABU2232

Now, since they are published, circulate them among the people. I hope that it may produce beneficial results. Perchance some of the souls who are truth-seekers may get a little information about this Cause. But afterward, if thou desirest to get the translation of a Tablet from the Blessed Writings, it must be translated by a committee of two Persian translators together with two competent English writers. The Persians should translate, and the writers mould the significance into profound, musical and perfect cast of style in English, and in such wise that the musical sweetness of the original Persian may not be lost. Then the material must be forwarded to me. I will consider the matter and give permission for its publication and circulation.... In brief, translation is one of the most difficult arts. In both Persian and English utmost proficiency is necessary, that the translator be a writer and use as the vehicle of expression great eloquence and fluency of tongue.   AB02972

The translation of the Surat-ul-Hykl is of the utmost difficulty. It must be translated by a committee who are exceedingly efficient both in Persian and English, exercising the closest and most minute attention. Otherwise the text would not become intelligible. The same rule applieth to other Writings and Tablets. For the present the organization of such a committee of translators is not possible and there is no other means than the translations made by individuals. In the future, God willing, means will be brought about. Translations will be made by a committee composed of two most erudite Persians and two learned Americans, all of them having the utmost proficiency in both languages and possessing a certain knowledge of sciences and arts. Then others from among the scholars and thinkers must assist. At that time Tablets will be translated correctly and published.   AB01171

Regarding the Tablets with translation that you wrote should be sent from here - we have absolutely no translator here who can translate even one line of the Sacred Writings. How can we translate and send them from here? And this servant has absolutely no time to attend to such matters. Therefore, whatever Sacred Writings are suitable to Western tastes - those that are all about universal peace and wellbeing, love and faithfulness toward all human beings, truthfulness and reconciliation and friendship between all peoples, absence of corruption, accord and unity, and the way and conduct of the people of God - have those Tablets translated in Tehran through skilled translators with perfect eloquence and excellence and in the finest style, and then print them. Otherwise it is absolutely not possible here. And in America there is only one translator, no more, and that one has so much work it is beyond imagining. As for others, they are very weak in translation.   AB05427


God willing, you will become an eloquent translator in that language, and an incomparable writer, dictator, poet and man of letters, so that you may arise to serve the Truth and stand in servitude at the threshold of the Divine Unity   AB02622

Convey my most glorious greetings to your dear sister and tell her that if she were to recite the Hidden Words in Persian and Arabic and comprehend their inner meanings and truths, they would have a different splendor. No matter how eloquent a translation may be, it can never equal the original. AB11334

Truly translation is very difficult. One has to have the utmost proficiency in science and religion, in divine wisdom, in the current trends of thought in Europe, and in philosophical and scientific terms.  AB05421

