I am in Paris  AB10483

When friends in the West wished to make contributions, whether small or large, towards these expenses, they were absolutely refused...in view of an all-encompassing wisdom, we have kept this matter silent in the West  AB12370


Before coming to America, the believers of God, through Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, offered for my traveling expenses $16,000 but I did not accept one cent.   ABU1209

We telegraphed our arrival to Aqa Mirza Jalal, and from Marseilles, under the protection of the Blessed Beauty, we arrived in complete comfort to Thonon in France. It is truly a delightful place. The mildness of the weather, the freshness of the grass and fields, the lushness and pleasantness of the hills, as well as the beauty of the scenery are most perfect. From the day I left Iran until now I had not seen such a place. For the time being, together with a group of the friends, we are staying in the Grant Hotel Park in Thonon. The weather is most agreeable.  AB07775

From America they sent three thousand and some pounds for travel expenses, but it was not entirely accepted and was returned. The intention is that even hospitality should not be accepted, and in this there is complete wisdom.  AB02653

Were it not for His confirmations, in the Western countries no one would have paid even the slightest attention to me   ABU2716

We have reached Paris.  AB11123

'Abdu'l-Baha is bound for America  AB10707

I am now about to journey to America.  AB07256

With utmost ease I arrived in New York.   AB07091

I am departing for America in these two days  AB10744

God willing, I shall make a journey to America.  AB08292

but in the way that 'Abdu'l-Baha did in America   AB04273

in Paris I have begun reading this precious letter  AB10887

The days I spent with you were spiritual and luminous   AB03906

I am now engaged in writing this brief letter in Paris.  AB08343

My presence there in winter time is somewhat difficult.   AB04781

It is dawn and I am walking in New York's Garden Avenue.  AB02586

in the city of Malden, America...in this perilous journey  AB12606

As we drove up Broadway, glittering with its electric signs   ABU3208

When I returned from the Western regions to the Eastern clime  AB03583

In London there is absolutely no time to write due to the crowds.  AB04753

Your letter indicated that 'Abdu'l-Baha's call in Paris awakened you   AB04770

Although when I boarded the ship in Alexandria I was not well at all.  ABU1835

I have come a long distance to see you; I have traveled 12,000 miles.  ABU1679

I am about to depart for the West...I will board the ship in two days.  AB09928

But soon He will hasten to Europe and from there sail to the Holy Land   AB04731

skilled physicians in Paris strongly warned against writing and speaking   AB04494

"I am going to take a long journey and at that time my spirit will rest."  ABU3096

Thou wishest that I would come to Germany. I hope that God will permit it.  AB12756

We will arrive in New York Monday Night. The time for sail is not yet set.  AB11317

Again we have come, again we have come! From the lands of Europe we have come.  AB10374

During this journey to America, certain souls showed humility and companionship  ABU2214

In these days when 'Abdu'l-Baha has hastened to the land of the Moon of Canaan...  AB01738

" In the morning I am bound for Kenosha, and I am determined to go to California."  AB11022

the journey of 'Abdu'l-Baha to Los Angeles has brought forth very important results  AB10819

in the Western countries no one would have paid even the slightest attention to me   ABU2716

The reaction of this long journey has had terrible effect upon my weakened constitution   ABU3326

Now that I am on the Greatest Ocean, traveling and moving on a steamship amidst the waves   AB04974

My object in taking that long journey through the West was to awaken them out of this sleep   ABU2251

On the fifth day of Rabi'u'th-Thani 1330, when the blessed company was departing for America  ABU1975

Journeys were made to the regions of Hungary, Vienna and Germany which yielded divine results.  AB08567

God willing, I will set out for America next spring, and perfect and true joy will be attained.  AB11187

Today we returned from Boston to New York. In that city the Cause was most wonderfully spread.   AB04857

I am engaged in teaching in New York churches... I apologized saying I was headed to Montclair.  AB02763

these strangers are servants of the Threshold of Baha'u'llah and are traveling from East to West  AB03224

The setting of the story on "the steamship Celtic" references 'Abdu'l-Baha's travels to the West.   ABU3224

"Pray for me to return...that he may return to America and occupy his time in the Western world."   ABU3198

Thou hast written regarding the results of my trip to America. Its importance is not now manifest.  AB09738

Now I am in San Francisco and have not a moment's rest day or night - in brief, it is resurrection!  AB12773

But when I went to London I realized how impossible it was to ward off the professional photographs.  ABU1784

And when the intended service to the divine Kingdom is accomplished, travel to other regions may occur  AB03012

I arrived in Port Said and under the protection of Baha'u'llah, I forgot every hardship that I endured.   AB03741

We are on a journey, we are in haste. Each morning we are in one country, each evening we are wanderers.   AB05821

tomorrow we are departing for Scotland...We will be in Paris on the twentieth or twenty-first of the month  AB10226

After three years of travel in the vast countries of America and Europe, I have returned again to the East  AB10498

In this vast region we are wandering and roaming - each day in a different city, each hour in a different place  AB12557

"Before leaving for America I wrote to them that during my journey they must excuse me from any letter-writing"  ABU2932

and God willing after completion of their studies and preparation, the journey to America will be made possible.   AB00638

For some time, due to the hardships of travel in the West and enduring trying conditions, the body was in danger   AB03011

Didst thou not hear that I went to America? God guided my steps to that country and I was engaged in His Service.   ABU0672

we will board the ship Cedric and hasten to America, and God willing we will attend the Ethical Society of New York  AB03680

O Amin! Praise be to God that you traversed this vast distance to become an intimate companion in London and Paris.   AB01231

We have again returned from the West to the East that we might attain the sacred threshold of the two blessed Shrines  AB10031

The specific details about 'Abdu'l-Baha's planned journey to America on March 25th via the steamship Cedric and Naples.   AB01579

there was a delay due to extensive travel, day and night conversations, and engagement in teaching in public gatherings   AB07094

Up to this time no one has come from the East to the West with such power, such lucid teachings and such an exalted aim.  ABU1353

"I have journeyed by sea and land for the pleasure of seeing you all. I needed a change but my desire was to know you all."  ABU1068

'Abdu'l-Baha, while afflicted with three illnesses, suddenly left Haifa and has been continuously traveling for three years  AB09929

Leaving the prison of 'Akka, I traveled to countries in Africa, Europe and America, called people to these blessed teachings  ABU1617

I am preparing for travel to western lands and have absolutely no time, yet despite this I pen a brief reply to your letter.  AB10850

From my journey to America and Europe, I hastened toward Africa, and now in Port Said I have undertaken to write this letter.  AB12610

This yearning one is departing for Paris on the morning of the third of the month, for some respected persons have invited me  AB09672

It was my hope to come to California and see the faces of the friends; but I regret that I am obliged to return to the Orient  AB05676

Since I plan to stay in Europe for two months, I long to meet with you. Come for a few days to Alexandria so that we may meet.   AB03107

From this three-year journey and endless hardships and difficulties, Abdul-Baha's physical powers have been completely depleted   AB12854

This servant is departing for America so that in those regions the cry of Ya Baha'ul-Abha and Ya Ali'ul-A'la may be raised high   AB02356

As to the request of ... to attain My presence, this is difficult to be accomplished, for erelong I will be traveling to America.   AB05138

I have requested him to journey to those regions so that he may inform 'Abdu'l-Baha of the momentous events of this Western journey.  AB09776

If such a delicious, sweet and pleasant feast is prepared and arranged, surely Abdul-Baha will fly to America to partake of that feast.  AB03723

While in America I strove day and night to prepare a few, holy sanctified souls to take up the burden of the Cause after my departure.   ABU2754

I am bound for those western horizons that I may perhaps make a feeble movement in servitude at the Sacred Threshold of the Abha Beauty.  AB09548

In Paris and London, numerous journalists and newspaper people insisted greatly on taking photographs, but this servant did not consent.   AB01551

For four years 'Abdu'l-Baha wandered through mountains and deserts, lost in wilderness and seas, and throughout all the western countries   AB00944

'Abdu'l-Baha traversed thousands of leagues and sailed across the great ocean until He reached the land of the free, the country of America   AB02094

I was continuously traveling for four years without any rest. Anyone else in my place would have been completely worn down to skin and bones.  AB07965

I hope that in the spring no obstacles will arise so that with the utmost joy and fragrance I may hasten to America solely to meet the friends   AB04633

From the day I arrived in the Western countries until now, I have absolutely not found the opportunity to write replies to the letters of the friends  AB05566

Abdul-Baha in successive years traveled to all parts of the West and proclaimed the Cause of God with raised voice in all gatherings and assemblies.   AB02769

You observed what a great commotion arose in Europe... However, 'Abdu'l-Baha, despite weakness and having no belongings or fame, entered those regions.   AB02780

I was tired when I boarded the steamer, but when I reached London and beheld the faces of the believers, my fatigue left me. Your great love refreshes me.  ABU2060

Praised be God, under the sheltering protection of the Blessed Beauty, I have safely returned from the West but will again proceed to America in the near future.  AB10473

This is why 'Abdu'l-Baha abandoned all important matters in the Holy Land and hastened to the furthest countries of the world despite illness and extreme weakness.  AB02623

since freedom of thought is scarce in Iran and Iran is sick and those in authority are averse to the physician, therefore there is no choice but to journey to the West  AB02477

In these days Abdul-Baha is preparing for departure to the Western lands, that perhaps he may render a sacrificial service at the Sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty   AB02609

After three years of travel in the western regions and traversing twelve astronomical hours, I returned to the East, but illnesses so overtook me that life was in danger.  AB01425

Now is the time that thou mayst go to America and exert in the promotion of the Cause of God and the exaltation of the Word of God and self-sacrifice in the Path of God.   ABU0772

This journey to America was very arduous and lasted several years. Every day we were moving from place to place, but divine confirmations and power were clear and evident.  ABU0142

AFTER my return from America and Europe, owing to the difficulties of the long voyage and the innumerable inconveniences of the journey, a reaction set in and I became sick.  AB05982

There is nothing as extraordinary or supernatural as my coming here to see you. A person in prison for life -- forty years -- to come to San Francisco and meet the friends.   ABU2122

As regards the second trip of Abdul Baha to America, if the believers of God be enkindled and attracted in a superlative degree, perchance this object will be again obtained.   AB02081

"Throughout many cities of America and Europe, in Churches and meetings with a loud voice I declared these Teachings and there was found not a single soul to contradict them."  ABU1179

I am in Europe and have no rest day or night, hoping that I may draw a breath in servitude at the Sacred Threshold and take a step on the path of self-effacement and nothingness.   AB07382

With utmost eagerness and attraction, through the aid and grace of the Incomparable Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His threshold), a journey was made to Europe.  AB00550

Regarding my coming to America, you wrote that the friends have prepared places for my arrival...Whenever a fragrant breeze reaches Our nostrils, surely the journey will be undertaken  AB03112

"Would it be possible for the Master to once more bless the western world with His footsteps?" He replied, "Europe is far. I wish to go to Jerusalem and Medina since these cities are near."  ABU1991

"Throughout this period of wandering and homelessness, the cry of this helpless bird reached the height of heaven, while the call of 'Ya Baha'u'l-Abha!' thrilled the ears of the world's people."  AB02437

"I must go everywhere and raise the call of the Kingdom. As the days of my life are limited in this world, I must perfect my services; I must go everywhere and raise the summons of the Kingdom!"  ABU3430

As promised, God willing, I shall embark upon the steamer on March 25th and arrive in Naples at the end of March. We shall stay in Naples for several days and from there shall set out for New York.  AB10533

After a period of travelling through mountain and desert, and voyaging over ocean and sea, I have returned from the West to the East, and have entered into the ancient land of Joseph the Canaanite.  AB02139

Next year 'Abdu'l-Baha will travel to America, as parties and groups working on matters of universal justice and reform of economic conditions have invited him to deliver talks and speeches to them.  ABU1027

Praise be to God, I arrived safely in the East and found the hearts of the friends illumined with the lights of the Kingdom...Therefore, as long as there is life in his body, 'Abdu'l-Baha will travel  AB05931

For two and half years He has been wandering through mountains and deserts, lost in plains and seas, each day in a different city and each evening in a different land, until now He has arrived in Paris  AB12214

in Europe there was scarcely time to breathe, let alone to write. During the journey, I asked the friends' forgiveness that they may allow me a few months' respite and excuse me from answering letters.  AB01847

the difficulties of traveling over seas and lands, lack of rest, striving and exerting day and night, delivering long addresses in different cities, and answering the varied, intricate questions of people  AB10291

"It is now over menthe seven and a half months - that I have been here, and it is two years since I left the Holy Land, leaving all my concerns there to come here, as I longed to see the Friends of God."   ABU0337

I have been travelling for two and a half years. Nowhere was I ill except here, where due to illness I had to stay a long time. If I had not become ill, I would not have stayed in Paris more than a month.   ABU0678

This was the purpose of the European journey, and now, despite weakness, I have determined to undertake the difficult journey to America, so that perhaps, God willing, a sacrificial movement may occur there.  AB03850

For two and a half years we have been wandering through mountains and deserts, lost in plains and seas. The journey was very long but praise be to God it ended in Paris, and from here we will move eastward.   AB02511

Due to the spread of news about Europe in America and the resonant articles in newspapers, invitations have come from all the great gatherings in America, urgently inviting me. I have become compelled to go.   AB01636

We traveled straight through from California to Denver over three days and nights in perfect comfort and joy. At first it was not thought that my constitution could endure this fatigue and length of journey.   ABU2759

Therefore, God has arranged circumstances such that 'Abdu'l-Baha travels to the land of the foreigners and hastens to America in the spring, that perhaps he may draw a breath in service to the Sacred Threshold.  AB02194

I went through deserts, mountains, valleys, cities and countries, raising my voice and crying out... I went to those regions and saw that I was moving alone among their temples, gatherings, assemblies and churches   ABU1259

This trip to Paris was just for your sake. I am longing very much to see you. God willing, I shall come to Stuttgart. However, I will not stay more than two nights and this is according to the requirement of wisdom.  AB12579

Then she asked:- "Will the Master visit again America?" "If much results are witnessed as the outcome of the first trip; if many harvests are gathered after the first sowing of the seeds, then God willing I will go."   ABU2984

"See how much we have moved from one place to another. How far New York is from here: Washington, Chicago, Philadelphia, the many places we have visited. And now these ladies have come to invite me to come to California."   ABU2035

that we raised the call of Ya Baha'u'l-Abha in the great churches and major assemblies, and with eloquent speech and perfect proof gave the glad-tidings of the Kingdom of God and explained the teachings of the Blessed Beauty   ABU1299

Where is Acca -- where is Los Angeles? These regions are far away, what vast distances between them and you, distance indeed; but consider how I longed to see you wherefore, I traverse such distances across country and ocean   ABU0924

During the first journey to Europe no one was thinking to do this work. Now and then Mirza Bager Khan, who was a member of our party, wrote down a few addresses and dates, but no systematic attempt was made in this direction.   ABU2082

'Abdu'l-Baha's limbs are exhausted from the fatigue of this Western journey. In these few days some improvement has occurred, therefore He has undertaken to write this letter, but an extensive and detailed one is not possible.  AB03820

For four years in the Western clime, I raised my voice and cry in all gatherings and churches, and called to the Kingdom of God. The capacity of the Western people attracted my heart, otherwise it would not have been possible.   AB05788

For three years, like a bird without nest or shelter, I have wandered through mountains and deserts, lost in plains and wilderness. Not for a moment did I rest, nor tarry in any place. I was constantly traveling and in motion.   AB03159

As for what you wrote about my journey to America - if you knew how responsibilities are surging like ocean waves, you would realize that not only is there no opportunity for travel, but even a little rest at home is impossible   AB01064

Should people enquire about My whereabouts, tell them that certain prominent Americans and Europeans have repeatedly sought and received promises that I would make a trip to those areas for treatment, change of climate and travel.  AB08307

Thou hast invited me to America...I have the utmost longing to meet all of you but unless the conditions which have been previously mentioned are realized my trip to those parts would be difficult for it would not produce any results.  AB03149

When I went to Europe, I had never given a speech before, for it is not customary in the East, yet I plunged into speaking. It was like someone who had never studied or heard music, nor even hummed a tune, being told to sing any melody.  ABU1973

When travelling in America and Europe, on many occasion[s] I did not have the power of uttering one word but before entering the meeting I begged Baha'u'llah to reinforce me and then walked in and commenced to speak for one or two hours.  ABU2790

Finally, trusting and relying upon God, he hastened to the Western lands and through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for the dust of His threshold), some relief came in the weakness and frailty   AB00741

When I went to America, My fatigue was of such a degree that My voice could not reach more than a few meters. Of necessity, in gatherings of four or five thousands souls, I would first concentrate on the Blessed Beauty and then begin speaking.  ABU3659

For three years, despite weakness, I traveled throughout all regions, traversed East and West, and in every temple cried out and in every gathering raised lamentation. I explained the harms of war and expounded the benefits of universal peace.   AB00357

From the time that I entered America until I left no one criticized. His Holiness Christ said: "When you want to speak don't think, say that which comes into your heart and mind." I did so. I had no thought, and all that came to my mind I said.  ABU0539

A journey was made to the Western realm, some time was spent, a great stirring arose, grand gatherings were formed, numerous talks were given that had a remarkable impact. Even in churches - that is, the priests themselves extended invitations.   AB01636

Up to the present time no one has traveled, with a purpose like ours, from Persia to America. Some have made the journey but it was for their personal gain or for trivial motives. Ours may be said to be the first voyage of Easterners to America.   ABU2456

Consider how 'Abdu'l-Baha forgot all thoughts and mentions and turned his face toward the countries and empires, cities and villages, mountains and deserts of the West. Day and night he was engaged in teaching the Cause and conveying the message.  AB09109

Consider how 'Abdu'l-Baha forgot all thoughts and mentions and turned His face toward the countries and empires, cities and villages, mountains and deserts of the West. Day and night He was engaged in teaching the Cause and conveying the Message.   AB09109

Less than a year 'Abdu'l-Baha raised the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" from his heart and soul as he crossed the mountains and deserts of that continent and in churches and meetings he imparted the glad-tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom of God.  AB09724

Less than a year 'Abdu'l-Baha raised the cry of "Ya Baha'u'l-Abha" from His heart and soul as He crossed the mountains and deserts of that continent, and in churches and meetings He imparted the glad-tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom of God.  AB09724

I renounced all peace, tranquility and rest in this Luminous Spot, and, notwithstanding my advanced age, left behind my kindred and traversed both land and sea, to lift up my voice in the vast assemblies and gatherings of both Europe and the Americas  AB00344

As the journey to America lies ahead with a group accompanying and endless expenses...In Paris, in one day the cost reached six hundred liras...I am so occupied with meetings, conversations, speaking at great gatherings and addressing major assemblies  AB02653

However, this second journey cannot be compared to the first journey, for America cannot be compared to Europe. It is another world, with different people and different capacities. Therefore, 'Abdu'l-Baha found a vast arena and saw an expansive field.   AB04803

This morning 'Abdul-Baha spoke about America and the probability of His return to that country. He said, "God willing! If I go to America another time I will go differently; but it is very difficult. This first trip was also made with great exertion."   ABU0728

I left my narrow prison for the wide world, to proclaim the Manifestation of the Lord of Hosts... In various tongues and under different expressions and sundry terminologies I presented to the world the same eternal message and voiced forth the same truth.   ABU0684

Now at midnight there is a chance to write these few words. The friends must give 'Abdu'l-Baha three months' respite and not expect replies to letters, until with utmost helplessness he may succeed in rendering the slightest service at the Sacred Threshold.  AB11046

In my journey to America, I never spoke of her [Mrs. Hearst], and when others spoke of her, I maintained silence so that no one would think that we had an eye on her money. Upon arrival in California, Goodall and Cooper asked that I meet with her [Mrs. Hearst].   ABU1071

from the length of travel and storms at sea and different climates of mountain and desert in America, and journeys in European lands - one day in London, another time in Paris, days in Germany, periods in Vienna, days in Bucharest, every hour in a different place   AB01077

Extract from letter written by Mabel McCoy Irwin to Mrs. I. D. B giving an account of her visit to Abdul Baha while he was in London, Eng., September 18, 1911. Tell them they must prepare for my coming with love. I do not know when I shall go, it may be next year.   ABU2656

Jinab-i-Munadi-i-Haqq Mirza Munir has opened his tongue in praise and adorned his letter stating that these nine partners have exerted their utmost effort and prepared the means for travel so that I may hasten to the divine regions and raise the call of the Kingdom. AB04338

Now I am walking on the avenue in New York's park and writing this letter, as I have absolutely no free time. Night and day 'Abdu'l-Baha's voice is raised in public meetings and gatherings, and due to the multitude of people's visits I cannot draw a peaceful breath.   AB04565

Last year I went to Europe. After a few months I returned to Alexandria. When I was ready to start for America, many people advised me to go by the way of Europe and take the steamer Titanic, but I came directly on the steamer Cedric. We were fifteen days on the sea.   ABU0097

During the American journey 'Abdu'l-Baha several times passed through Chicago and associated with the friends of God. For some time he sojourned in that city. Day and night he was occupied with the mention of the True One and summoned the people to the Kingdom of God.  AB00184

Praise be to God, through the assistance and favor of Baha'u'llah, with the utmost power and strength during this journey the verses of divine unity were chanted in synagogues and great gatherings, and the call of the Cause of God spread throughout all the Western lands   AB04416

Now we are traveling from California to Chicago. Praise be to God that this journey has passed most pleasantly. At the time of leaving Haifa, I had several ailments and did not expect to cross oceans and plains with such ease and comfort and to make such a long journey.   ABU2590

In accordance with your request, God willing, efforts will be made to depart for America in March, and at the time of departure a telegram will be sent to you either from Alexandria or Naples... I will depart directly from Alexandria to America and will not go to Europe.   AB00654

As the express train speeded over vast stretches of land and traversed long distances, thus joining together the remotest parts, therefore I became the associate and the confident participator of every meeting and sang and chanted the praises of the Lord in every assembly.  AB01158

"When will the Master return to America?" "We will see what God wants. If America becomes illumined, its illumination, like a magnet, will draw me there. If America will become the America I want it to become, I will surely come and I will go to all parts, to every state."   ABU0768

Despite physical weakness and the onset of illness, while suffering from three diseases, 'Abdu'l-Baha traveled from the Holy Land to Africa, Europe and America. For four years, despite physical frailty, he taught in great gatherings and mighty assemblies, crying out loudly.   AB11811

In truth, it had been my intention to travel from Port Said to Marseilles in order to see your luminous faces and spend some days with the friends in that land and region. However, as soon as I boarded the vessel my condition changed such that I had to disembark in Alexandria.   AB02422

You and all the handmaidens of the Merciful and the loved ones of God should feel the utmost happiness about this journey, for after forty-two years of confinement in a mighty and formidable prison, 'Abdu'l-Baha journeyed to this great land with the utmost dignity and authority.   AB01303

'Abdu'l-Baha's desire from all is that they supplicate day and night at the threshold of the Abha Beauty and pray for my support and confirmation in this perilous journey, for the journey is long and this body has no endurance for the rolling of the sea and hardship of the desert.  AB01791

I have been in America where I have travelled through many large cities and spoke in many churches. After nearly 8 months, returning from California to N.Y. I sailed for Liverpool. Then London, Bristol, Edingburgh, Paris, Stuttgart, Morgentheim, Budapest and now in your delightful city.   ABU0878

Now a ship has been found to travel directly from Alexandria to Naples and from Naples to America, that I may see the faces of the friends and be gladdened by meeting the loved ones. But the ship departs from Alexandria on March 25th. God willing, we will arrive in New York around mid-April.   AB02937

While I was travelling in Germany I passed by Baden-Baden and although the friends persisted that I should go and take baths, but I could not comply with their wish. In Stuttgart Consul Schwarz invited me to Morgentheim which is an excellent resort for taking baths for various kinds of ills.   ABU1234

Despite physical weakness and inability to endure travel, out of utmost longing to see the faces of the friends, 'Abdu'l-Baha is setting out on a journey to that distant country which is like another world, to cross the great ocean and illuminate his eyes with the sight of the friends' faces.   AB01020

Due to the length of travel by sea and land, the great hardships day and night, lack of rest and sleep, and detailed addresses in public gatherings, physical weakness and exhaustion resulted. From sunrise until midnight in America there were either questions and answers or talks and addresses.   AB03330

At 12 midnight they departed from Ataba and after three hours arrived in Lincoln...in a large automobile with the companions of His retinue also present, they traveled a considerable distance outside the city until they arrived at Mr. Bryan's palace, which was in the finest location in that region.   ABU1303

What a wonderful time we had in America, all spent in the service of the Cause and every minute of it filled with delight and high spirits. How much better it would have been if we had not returned here, had stayed there serving the Faith of God and day and night raising the cry of the divine Kingdom.  ABU0921

For a time, I was like birds without nest or shelter, wandering in distant climes - sometimes on mountain peaks and hills, sometimes in the depths of valleys and deserts, moving about with a weak constitution. Despite this, I traveled from shore to shore throughout the countries of America and Europe   AB01149

When the ship was abreast the Statue of Liberty, standing erect and facing it, Abdul-Baha held his arms wide apart in salutation...The ship now pointed its nose up the North River, and, gazing in a look of bewildered amazement at the rugged sky line of the lower city formed by the downtown skyscrapers...  ABU0516

For some time I was in the Western countries, passing like a breeze each day over a different region. In all places and occasions, I remembered the friends of the East, and every moment my soul was stirred with longing and constant yearning, wondering how I had become separated from those ancient friends.  AB01275

From the Universal Peace Conference of America, from the Race Unity Conference, from the Governor of Boston, America, from the great and eminent ones of that land, from its notable figures, and from the friends, letters of invitation are arriving continuously. Therefore I am compelled to journey to America  AB04184

Through the bounties of the Blessed Beauty, may My spirit be sacrificed for His Blessed Dust, we have traversed the expanse of deep seas, and have, under the loving protection of the Most Great Name, passed through ports and gulf straits. We are now staying at Grant Hotel in Thonen on the shore of Lake Swiss.  AB01763

Look at the history of the world and try to find a parallel instance in which a native of the East has come to the countries of the West, particularly America, and called out to them in the churches and meetings there, raised the divine call in many of the large cities and invited everyone to the Abha Kingdom   ABU2738

I was in Egypt and was not feeling well, but I wished to come to you in America. My friends said, "This is a long journey; the sea is wide; you should remain here." But the more they advised and insisted, the greater became my longing to take this trip, and now I have come to America to meet the friends of God.   ABU0970

'Abdu'l-Baha, in churches and gatherings throughout Europe and America, in most great cities, proclaimed the Cause of Baha'u'llah with raised voice and called to the Abha Kingdom. He established brilliant proofs and manifested clear and evident demonstrations and conclusive arguments, leaving no excuse for anyone.  AB04275

Yesterday extensive talks were given in two great churches and at the general meeting of the friends, and private meetings were held with some individuals. Consider that despite this we were guests day and night. Last night I reached home at midnight and had no opportunity to change clothes - I slept in my clothes.  AB07743

I traveled in many countries. I went to the world's most famous climates, such as Dublin, New Hampshire, the summer resort of Washington's government officials and statesmen... Also, we went to Denver, Colorado... Again, we were in Switzerland, which is far famed, and in the summer people from all regions go there.   ABU0274

In brief, in these nine blessed states 'Abdu'l-Baha journeyed and traveled from place to place, explained the wisdom of the heavenly books and diffused the fragrances. In most of these states he founded the divine Edifice and opened the door of teaching. In those states he sowed pure seeds and planted blessed trees.  AB00241

In Europe, in the great assemblies talks were given. I spoke to the eminent people. [...] Did you ever see in America, in Washington, in the Churches and meetings that anyone rose to oppose me? It was in your house in Washington that there was a general meeting in the morning and one for the notables on the afternoon.  ABU1274

Therefore pray thou that harmony may be created so that your country may find the capacity for the Presence of Abdul-Baha. I have the utmost yearning to meet all of you; but unless the conditions which have been previously mentioned are realized, my trip to those parts would be difficult, for it would produce no results.  AB06535

During His travels in America, 'Abdu'l-Baha visited Green Acre, where He spoke on spiritual subjects. He later traveled to Los Angeles and San Francisco, where He found many devoted believers. Despite requests to visit other cities like Seattle and Portland, He had to decline due to His desire to return to the Holy Land.   ABU0377

It is several days since I arrived in the land of the Moon of Canaan, and I am preparing for the journey to America, as invitations keep arriving continuously from leaders, prominent figures and associations there with utmost insistence and persistence. Therefore, I must inevitably undertake the journey at the beginning of Naw-Ruz.   AB04332

After the end of three years, again I return to the Holy Land. Were it not for the assistance and protection of the Blessed Beauty (Baha'o'llah) I would never have had any hope of returning from such a long journey. I went as far as Los Angeles, which is situated on the western coast of America and directly opposite the land of Acca.   ABU2414

"So it was with us. We had not traveled before so when we started, we went on a long journey. Every day, we were in a town or a city. Indeed, the American cities are very large. I spoke of the validity of his holiness, Christ, and of the accepted Messenger (Mohammed) in most of the Christian churches and in the synagogues of the Jews."  ABU1156

Thou hast written that the friends of Boston and Malden are extremely happy about my eventual coming to America, and that this news has become the means of spreading the proclamation of the Kingdom in those regions. Abdu'l-Baha has the utmost desire of meeting the friends of God and of conversing with the maid-servants of the Merciful.  AB09831

There were some places I wanted to go but hadn't finished my work - I wanted to go to Berlin and Italy, especially Romania which is the center of the Pope. I left all of these and came to see you... Even the Iranian Consul General in New York invited us... This passed until on our journey toward California we reached the city of Denver.  ABU3665

When I entered a convention or a meeting I saw with my own eyes the confirmations of the Holy Spirit hovering like white-plumaged birds over my head and the Kingdom of existence with all its mighty forces coming to my assistance. All the days and nights were spent for the Cause and all the conversations and talks revolved around the Cause.   ABU1823

Once, when I was on my way to speak in a church in New York city, a person from India, a man prominent in that city, met us accidentally. He came to the church and saw me standing on the platform, proving the prophethood of his holiness the Messenger of God. Indeed, he became amazed. When we came out, his face was radiant beyond description.   ABU1177

Your letter was received in Paris at a time when I was extremely fatigued from extensive travels throughout the Western countries. Every day was spent in a different place, every morning in a different plain, and every evening without rest or repose. Due to this, a period of convalescence became necessary, hence the delay in sending this reply.  AB10465

The intention was to be present in London in October, but the friends of God from the cities of California raised an extraordinary cry and lamentation that "We have been waiting for this day for many years; how can you be content that we remain deprived?" Therefore I was compelled to travel to California, but my hope is to be in London in November.  AB04685

Despite severe illness, "suddenly departing from Haifa to sea and heading to desert and mountain and wilderness, he went to all the Western countries. And in a state of severe nervous illness and chest ailments in cold weather, from morning until midnight in gatherings and assemblies he called out and delivered the call of the Kingdom to all ears."   AB00453

This servant is about to depart for the region of Europe...Now it is being sent from London. Consider how little time there was then, and now it is ten times less, for from morning until midnight there are gatherings for teaching, even priests are present in the meetings and in the churches the cry of 'Abdu'l-Baha is raised and the people are astonished.   AB02934

While in Europe one day we were in London and another in Edinburgh; now in Paris and anon in Stuttgart; once in Budapest and again in Vienna. We were almost every hour in one place, delivering lengthy speeches and addresses and notwithstanding the indisposition of the body day and night I cried and raised my voice in large meetings and important Churches....  AB00883

"As soon as the Master left America now and then, letters were received that some of the believers thought and felt that the activities of the Persian American Educational Society in Washington are against the desire and consent of the Beloved. In my last address in California and in conversation with the friends I have encouraged them to assist the Society."  ABU2057

The letter which thou hast written in regard to the happiness and joy, beatitude and rejoicing of the American believers concerning the trip of Abdul-Baha to the country of Joseph of Canaan, and likewise their expectation of my going to America was perused. However, the latter event is depended upon several conditions which are already explained in a former Tablet.  AB06545

'Abdu'l-Baha will be departing for distant lands in these two days... The people of America, both friends and strangers, are all pleading with utmost insistence for 'Abdu'l-Baha's presence. Perhaps more than a thousand letters have arrived from the friends and various assemblies of America, even from some church ministers. Therefore I am compelled to make this journey.   AB06581

My primal object of this long trip was to show, by deed, to the friends of God, that this is the season of teaching the Cause. Although Acca and Haifa [Syria] are the headquarters of the Cause, and I should stay there and from those Centers administer the affairs of the Cause, yet I left everything and traveled throughout the earth to herald the coming of the Kingdom of ABHA.  ABU1958

While I was travelling in America whenever I entered a new city I looked around and said it to myself: 'Why am I here? What relation exists between me and the United States? This is made possible through the Bestowals of the Blessed Perfection. During my stay in Boston I delivered an address at the annual Banquet of the Unitarian Association where more than 800 Ministers were present   ABU0743

From the day of leaving Montreal until now I have not rested nor reposed for a moment. From morn until midnight I was engaged in heralding the Kingdom, and in numerous assemblages and meetings, even in the Jewish Temple, I raised the call proclaiming the Revelation of the Kingdom. Many a night I did not sleep, and on many a day, like unto a surging sea, I was in the utmost state of agitation.  AB02234

I had intended to depart for London at the beginning of October, but the friends in the cities of California, especially San Francisco, lamented and pleaded so much, and made such intense supplication, and your letter also arrived expressing infinite regret at their deprivation, that I have now decided to make a journey to California. I hope to be in London at the beginning or end of November   AB05169

I have crossed 12 or 13,000 miles to come here and see you. The distance is very great. This will show you how much I longed to meet you, and all this distance the roads were as though carpeted with silk. While the sea was rolling and surging it was as though it were smooth and calm. The great Atlantic to my sight was like unto a lake, and from New York to San Francisco it was like unto a mile.  ABU0906

This prisoner of forty years, following his freedom, traveled for three years--from 1910 to the end of 1913--throughout Europe and the vast continent of America. Despite extreme weakness and fatigue, he delivered extensive addresses in all cities, in great gatherings and major churches, proclaiming aloud whatsoever was contained in the Tablets and teachings of Baha'u'llah concerning war and peace.  AB00172

When he was freed from bonds and prison, he hastened involuntarily to every region, raised a cry in every quarter, conversed with every well-disposed person, burst into song and melody in every meadow, and like unto the nightingale raised high the anthem of Ya Baha'ul-Abha, and in every gathering struck the note of Ya Ali'ul-A'la. He traveled throughout all the Western lands and raised his call.  AB08655

Before leaving Haifa I felt very ill, but as soon as I embarked on the sea of the service of the Cause of God I felt better. That was why I took my first journey to Europe. Returning to Alexandria I stayed in Egypt for the winter and then started on the long voyage for America. We spent fifteen days on the sea and when we reached New York many meetings and Conferences were commenced by night and day.   ABU1637

When the service which is our (present) purpose is realized for the Kingdom of God, perhaps we shall journey to other parts. If the beloved of God in all America strive for unity and harmony, attain perfect love and accord, and act according to the divine teachings and the precepts of the Blessed Perfection, this will prove a magnet attracting 'Abdu'l-Baha, so that, perchance, he may journey to America.  AB02630

For three years I have been wandering like the desert wind through vast wilderness, and in the mountains like birds without nest or shelter, journeying day and night. At times I traverse stormy seas, and at times witness the expanse of the desert plains. Not for a moment have I rested, nor sought repose for an instant. In all the cities of the West, I gave glad tidings of the appearance of the Sun of the East.  AB01139

After descending from the pulpit, they proceeded to a special room and we Iranians were also taken there - Mr. Aqa Mirza Asadu'llah Isfahani Tamaddun'ul-Mulk, Aqa Mirza Azizu'llah the Jewish tailor residing in Tehran, Aqa Lutfu'llah brother of Mirza Aristu, also Mirza Muhammad Baqir Khan. Mr. Dreyfus was also present. Mr. Campbell, the church leader, was present in his official attire and was hosting the Master.   AB06441

In these days I am determined to journey to America, as invitations are arriving continuously from gatherings of friends and strangers alike, and from scientific, political and general assemblies in America. Although this weak body has absolutely no strength to endure sea travel and there is danger of peril, especially in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, yet hope lies in the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty...   AB01424

In short, the journey has reached its end and the dawn of return has broken, for we have reached the shores of the Pacific Ocean. Beyond this are the Hawaiian Islands and the countries of China and Japan. The distance is great, strength and power have reached their limit. Now we must turn toward the Center of the Sun of Truth and hasten to the Holy Shrine, that I may lay my face upon its dust and make my hair fragrant and perfumed.   AB00285

The long journey over sea and land, the innumerable difficulties in the morn and eve, the lack of rest and sleeplessness, the delivery of detailed addresses in public congregations, the meeting of the people from sunrise to midnight in America, answering countless questions and withstanding the hardship of the trip, the different kinds of weather etc have put their impressions on this earthly constitution and the result is great weakness.  AB08448

Less than a year Abdul Baha traveled through the cities of America and crossed its deserts and from his heart and soul he raised the cry of Ya Baha El Abha; in gatherings and churches he gave the Glad-Tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom of God; vociferously he imparted the news of the dawn of the Sun of Reality; he explained divine Proofs and Evidences and with a spirit and mind overflowing with the Love of God He sung the New Melody.  AB03965

But when we were in America, in Europe, in the field of service, it was clearly evident that the hosts of the seen and unseen were lending their support and assistance. In the Jewish synagogue, five thousand Jews were present when an extensive talk was given that opposed their views to an indescribable degree. In the Jewish synagogue, the Word of God status of Christ was proven - that Christ was the Word of God and the Spirit of God, that Muhammad was the Messenger of God.  ABU0144

Consider how 'Abdu'l-Baha forgot all thoughts and mentions and turned his face towards the countries and empires, cities and villages, mountains and deserts of the West. Day and night he was engaged in teaching the Cause and conveying the Message. The principle upon which his trip throughout Europe and America was directed was this verse: "O God! Make all my ideals and thoughts One Ideal and One Thought, and suffer me to attain to an eternal, unchangeable condition in Thy Service!"  AB08446

When I was in America I was most busy. Often I addressed three meetings in a day and gave innumerable interviews from early morning till midnight. In Europe I spread certain divine Teachings which will insure security to the human world and taught them that the foundation of the religions of God is one and the same. Now I have returned to Egypt in order to rest from the effect of this arduous journey and while I am here correspondence is uninterrupted [sic] with all parts of the West.   ABU1193

'Abdu'l-Baha:"Very good. I want you to write this exactly, to the believers, giving the details. Tell them I have many letters from the Orient--all stating that the believers in the Orient have travelled long distances and they are disappointed that I am not there. They are constantly coming there from afar. From great distances to see me. They feel disappointed and very sad. The believers in the Northwest will realize greater development if they sacrifice themselves to have me go to those pilgrims."  ABU1342

Whenever I get tired on the way, I thought of your promised faces, and the fatigue was taken away. Considered from a geographical standpoint, there is no further point than San Francisco. You see, this is just the opposite point of Syria. Half an arc has been covered. The utmost has been that a person might have traveled 100 miles, or 200, or 500 miles, to meet his friends. On the other hand, I have traveled many, many thousands of miles to reach here, and this has been just for the sake of meeting you. This, then, is unique in history.  ABU1356

Now as I write this letter, I have been at Mr. Hoyt's house in Edinburgh for two days. I am in good health and well-being and thinking of you. In two days, that is on January 10th, I will be in London. Yesterday I attended a gathering of university students where meetings were held, and last night in the large Esperanto hall nearly a thousand people were present and I spoke. Today in the afternoon I will attend a large gathering and will spend the evening with the governor and ruler and several notables, and tomorrow with the suffragettes.  AB08442

In New York, Denur, the manager of one of the hotels had become attracted [to the Cause] and, having attaining the presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha, implored the Master to stay at his hotel, even without payment. Because of his insistence and invitation, 'Abdu'l-Baha went. While there, a Catholic priest entered the premises and spoke in such way that caused the manager to have a change of heart. Thereupon the Master left the hotel and departed for Washington. [While there,] the Master spoke in churches and Jewish synagogues on the validity of Christ and Muhammad.   ABU1262

"During the journey to America, my thoughts were constantly with the Holy Shrine, and I would recite this verse of Sa'di: ("O Ka'bah of my heart's desire, how distant art thou! How many mountains, deserts and seas lie between!") meaning the day would come when we would reach the Holy Shrine. From there to the Holy Shrine is a complete arc of the globe. We traveled extensively throughout America. Three times to Chicago, four times to Boston, four times to Washington. It was a good journey and will have tremendous effects. The Call of God reached the ears of all manner of people."  ABU0593

With utmost longing you had requested 'Abdu'l-Baha's presence in America. I too am in utmost longing to hasten to the friends and behold the appealing faces of the loved ones, but I have no opportunity for this journey now. I must return to the East - wisdom requires this. Therefore, with ultimate regret and sorrow at separation, I am compelled to return. God willing, next year I will set out for the West to see the faces of the friends, meet the loved ones, exalt the Word of God, spread the divine fragrances, and raise the call of the Kingdom of God in great gatherings and mighty assemblies.   AB01608

'Abdu'l-Baha is in these days bound for America and offers his most earnest supplications at the Threshold of the Most Glorious Beauty that during this absence the divine friends may abide under the protection of His Holiness the One True God and arise to promote the manifest Faith. Detailed letters, some adorned with a thousand names, arrive from America, and special correspondence comes from both friend and stranger, and communications arrive continually from the great assemblies of America, all requesting 'Abdu'l-Baha's journey to those regions and showing the utmost eagerness and desire. Therefore am I compelled to undertake this journey.  AB00358

Apart from various affairs, meetings, occupations, and endless concerns, a journey was made to the Western world with a stay of several days. The intention was that despite utmost weakness, a mighty call might be raised, hoping for the aid and favor of the Blessed Beauty - otherwise what power has this feeble gnat, what strength and might has this atom of poverty and evanescence? Whatever it was, a clarion call was raised that brought the birds of that meadow to song and melody. A commotion arose and the Call of God reached the ears of the denizens of the Kingdom. Day and night were spent in questions and answers, and some souls were stirred by the breeze from the Abha Paradise. Gatherings were formed and meetings arranged, and 'Abdu'l-Baha, through the aid and favor of Baha, uttered a few words according to his weakness. But as the promised confirmation was evident, it influenced spirits and hearts like the melody of the lute and harp.   AB00163
