Your recent letter was received in Alexandria. Despite extreme weakness and illness, I am writing a response to make up for what was missed. During this journey, I was so occupied day and night that there was absolutely no opportunity to write, hence the shortcoming. Now, despite my illness, as there is an opportunity, I have undertaken to write this reply.  AB00393

For nearly one month 'Abdul-Baha remained in Port Said and the friends of God came from Cairo, in turn, to visit him. One day he called me to accompany him when taking a walk in the streets of the city...The day that he left for Alexandria he did not mention the matter to anyone; nor did this servant know the time of his departure.  ABU1904


Due to the unsuitable climate and nervous fever each day, this earthly frame could not endure and reached the utmost weakness and decline. Therefore from arrival in Port Said until now health has been completely impaired and strength gone. However for several days in Ramleh some strength has been gained and writing is possible   AB03330

This letter is now being written from Alexandria, because that nervous condition which you know about has intensified in these days to such an extent that I was unable to speak or write. And since it was observed that the climate of Akka and Haifa was not agreeable in any way...the change of climate has proven very beneficial.  AB11639

For several days I have been staying in Ramleh of Alexandria, and day and night I am occupied with thoughts of the divine friends. After arriving in Port Said, some weakness resulted from the fatigue of travel. In any case, I am now writing this letter in a garden in the shade of a tree.   AB04683

"I am in Port Said. Notwithstanding the weakness of the body, the fatigue of the journey and the infirmity of the nervous fever, I am busy in writing (i.e., correspondence) as much as possible and am associating with the pilgrims of the Blessed Temple."  AB04010

When I reached Egypt, weakness, frailty, exhaustion and nervous fever took complete hold. Therefore, several days passed in silence. As soon as the illness subsided slightly and minimal strength was gained, I took to writing   AB01149

Now 'Abdu'l-Baha is in the city of Alexandria, occupied with thoughts of the friends, and night and day, in utmost lowliness and supplication, begs for confirmation and success from the threshold of the Lord of the Kingdom   AB04886

'Abdu'l-Baha was in the land of Egypt and had absolutely no opportunity for writing or speech. The distractions were endless and the attacks of enemies beyond measure.   AB04041

Now 'Abdu'l-Baha is in the city of Alexandria   AB04886

Now for some time I am passing days in the region of Egypt   AB02132

I may be able to come to Egypt and meet with certain important persons  AB04029

Praise be to God, by His grace we arrived safe and sound in Port Said   AB06731

He passed through Egypt and spent several days in fellowship and association with Abdul-Baha, spending day and night in the utmost joy and delight.  AB01822

Written in Alexandria. Until now it was delayed in sending due to the press of occupations.  AB05859

Written in Alexandria. In London there is absolutely no time to write due to the crowds.  AB04753

until he reached Alexandria. For some days he endured with difficulty.  AB01137

I entered the country of Egypt, trusting in God, attracted to His Kingdom  AB05431

In recent days, I have made a plan to visit Egypt, if this be God's will.  AB10256

Now I am headed to Alexandria and, God willing, will make up for what was missed.  AB07061

After traversing stages in Europe and crossing the sea, Abdul-Baha returned to Egypt.  AB10664

When I went to Egypt Ahmad Zakki Pasha requested me to take my photograph but I did not accept.  ABU1784

God willing, after teaching in these regions I will return to Alexandria and meet with the friends.  AB06405

The invisible hand has opened the doors, and wisdom requires that Abdul-Baha hasten to the country of Egypt  AB10311

"Because first you were with me in Alexandria, then you departed to visit the Holy Tomb of Baha'u'llah and now we are gathered in Port Said."   ABU0469

'Abdu'l-Baha has arrived from the city of 'Akka to the region of Egypt and is occupied day and night in remembrance of the friends and companions.  AB11665

Perhaps I will find an opportunity and come to Egypt for a few days. Therefore, you should remain there until I come. If no change occurs, I will come.  AB11228

For nearly one month 'Abdul-Baha remained in Port Said and the friends of God came from Cairo, in turn, to visit him...The day that he left for Alexandria he did not mention the matter to anyone.  ABU1904

You became ill in Port Said. They praised Ismailia but the climate there did not agree either. I arrived in Alexandria in extreme weakness and exhaustion. It has been more than three weeks that I am in Ramla.  AB04373

Therefore, a journey was made to the wilderness of Egypt to spend this winter in that climate in Alexandria, New Cairo and Helwan, and to visit friends, acquaintances, fellow citizens and Iranian compatriots.   AB02162

For several days I have been staying in Ramleh of Alexandria, and day and night I am occupied with thoughts of the divine friends. After arriving in Port Said, some weakness resulted from the fatigue of travel.   AB04683

When I was in Alexandria, Ahmad Ariss, the Minister of [one word cut off] of the Khedivial Court called upon me and proposed to me that he would like to arrange a meeting between his Highness the Khedive and myself.  ABU0265

The purpose of the journey to Egypt was that perhaps through the escort of divine grace, success in service would be attained. Yet this verse of poetry is still on the tongue: No worthy service came forth from my hand. Perhaps in the future some feeble movement will occur.  AB07998

Now after a long and arduous journey tomorrow night we shall sleep in Port Said. And now do you think I will remain in Port Said! Far from it! As soon as I have arranged the affairs of the Cause I will commence travelling again so that I may diffuse the Fragrance of the Kingdom of Abha.  ABU0944

'Abdu'l-Baha traveled to the land of Joseph of Canaan and became renowned for servitude at the Holy Threshold. Although He is in danger from the attacks of factions and false rumors and newspaper calumnies, yet it is hoped that this journey will bear fruit and cause the fame and mention of the Cause of God to stir these regions.   AB00564

The purpose of the journey to Alexandria is solely for a change of air, since the promotion of Baha'u'llah's teachings in these regions is entirely forbidden according to Baha'u'llah's explicit text, for they have the Qur'an in hand and the conduct and behavior of the divines therein is clear and explicit - they must act accordingly.  AB11806

You have expressed joy and happiness because of the trip of 'Abdu'l-Baha from the center of prison (Acca) to the land of the divine Joseph (Egypt). There are divine wisdoms in this journey! I am hopeful that it will be productive of results. Now - praise be to God! - some time is passed with the utmost of spirit and fragrance in this country, and we are occupied with the service of the Cause of God and servitude to the Holy Threshold.  AB02630

'Abdu'l-Baha then hastened from the prison land to Egypt with utmost authority. Praise be to God, through the assistance and favor of the Blessed Beauty, immediately upon arrival in Alexandria the Word of God was exalted and the melody of the Abha Kingdom was raised. All newspapers wrote numerous articles - some offering utmost praise, while others cried out that this person's arrival in this land would shake the foundations of religion and undermine traditional rules and customs  AB00182

Upon our arrival in Port Said, the compatriots expressed displeasure in the newspapers, whereas we had hoped for a good reception, for if we have not been a cause of honor to Iranians wherever we went, we have not been a cause of humiliation. Now that we sensed strong displeasure, we therefore abandoned going to Alexandria and New Cairo so as not to cause displeasure to the compatriots.   AB02162
