Peace guarantees freedom. Freedom brings joy  ABU3353

The captive of the Holy Spirit is exempt from every captivity.   ABU3086

O people of God and diverse parties of the world, arise to render assistance and purify the realm of love and fellowship from the defilement of discord and hatred, that perchance souls might find some respite and attain unto true freedom.  BH10229

"He Who had been concealed from men's eyes is now come. How good is His coming! In one hand He is carrying the water of life and in the other the charter of true liberty."  BH02950

But it would have been better to first educate the people of Iran, and then give them liberty. It is like many well-fed and trained horses that have been raised on a ranch and then of a sudden released and set free. The result is chaos and disorder.   ABU0887

Now Baha'u'llah has come and given freedom to these captive souls and released them from their bondage.  ABU1570

Today the true duty of a powerful king is to establish a universal peace: for verily it signifies the freedom of all the people of the world.  ABU3109

If all the kings of the horizons were to gather together, they could not prevent his freedom, for he is free in the Kingdom even though a prisoner in this world.   AB05230

the center of this overwhelming power is the Manifestation of God's commanding Word and His prevailing Cause, who without imprisonment and politics liberates souls from the bonds of oppression and treachery   ABU1305

human happiness lies not in riches and means of livelihood, wealth and affluence, but rather in freedom of spirit, nobility, and the perfections of human reality.  AB05772

True Democrats are souls who seek the freedom of humanity, who hold to legitimate liberty, who establish constitutional government, and who desire good for all on earth. I hope they will take the path of moderation, abandon savagery, seek tranquility and pursue legitimate freedom. Do not quarrel and dispute with such persons now present in Iran. If possible, invite them to reality, saying: "O seeker of freedom! This supposed freedom of yours is bondage to chains and fetters. It is constraint, not freedom; it is shackles, not aspiration and nobility; it is the darkness of prison, not the light of the palace."  AB00566

Thirty years ago I wrote to Sultan Abdul Hamid that if thou desirest to protect thy Empire thou must give complete freedom of rights to all thy subjects no matter to what religion they may belong and establish a constitution  ABU2929

I am very much pleased with you all. I am pleased with the English king and government and with the people. You may thank God that you are free. You do not know what lack of freedom there is in the East; but when anyone comes to this country he is very content.  ABU1118

In principle, we prefer freedom as it is one of the divine blessings and pleases God. However, this is not because freedom helps with the diffusion and propagation of our Cause, as it is the opposite - namely, our Cause grows better in a repressive environment.  ABU3271

This is natural freedom, and its greatest expression is seen in the animal world. Observe these birds and notice with what freedom they live. However much man may try, he can never be as free as an animal, because the existence of order acts as an impediment to freedom.  ABU0914

There is no cause for sorrow or unhappiness anywhere; every means of happiness and enjoyment is about you, for in this human world there is no greater blessing than liberty. You do not know. I, who for forty years have been a prisoner, do know. I do know the value and blessing of liberty.  ABU0157

I was, am, and always will be, free. No one can take away My freedom. My freedom comes from the Beauty of Abha and no one is able to encroach upon it. Should all the forces of the world unite, they could not overwhelm Me, for I am free, and above all the restrictions, chains and ties of attachment to this world.  AB03460


"Physical freedom is a good thing, but spiritual freedom is of greater importance. Really the first thing is to have the soul free. And you must be very happy to have attained spiritual freedom on the same day when you attained physical freedom. I hope that as on this day you attained the physical freedom, in the same way you will be free from all passionate desires and human inclinations."  ABU1570

There are three types of freedom. The first is divine freedom, which is one of the inherent attributes of the Creator for He is unconstrained in His will, and no one can force Him to change His decree in any matter whatsoever.... The second is the political freedom of Europeans, which leaves the individual free to do whatsoever he desires as long as his action does not harm his neighbour. This is natural freedom, and its greatest expression is seen in the animal world. Observe these birds and notice with what freedom they live. However much man may try, he can never be as free as an animal, because the existence of order acts as an impediment to freedom. The third freedom is that which is born of obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Almighty. This is the freedom of the human world, where man severs his affections from all things. When he does so, he becomes immune to all hardship and sorrow. Wealth or material power will not deflect him from moderation and fairness, neither will poverty or need inhibit him from showing forth happiness and tranquillity. The more the conscience of man develops, the more will his heart be free and his soul attain unto happiness. In the religion of God, there is freedom of thought because God, alone, controls the human conscience, but this freedom should not go beyond courtesy. In the religion of God, there is no freedom of action outside the law of God. Man may not transgress this law, even though no harm is inflicted on one's neighbour. This is because the purpose of Divine law is the education of all -- others as well as oneself -- and, in the sight of God, the harm done to one individual or to his neighbour is the same and is reprehensible in both cases. Hearts must possess the fear of God. Man should endeavour to avoid that which is abhorrent unto God. Therefore, the freedom that the laws of Europe offer to the individual does not exist in the law of God. Freedom of thought should not transgress the bounds of courtesy, and actions, likewise, should be governed by the fear of God and the desire to seek His good pleasure. ABU0914

I am free, although I should remain in prison. All fortresses and castles shall not confine me, and the dungeon cannot bring me under the narrow bondage of the world. The spirit is ever soaring, even if the body be in the depths. What can these ignorant creatures do? They might imprison the body but the spirit they cannot; the spirit will every soar in the atmosphere of the eternal bliss and glory. Therefore, neither the prison is a cause of sorrow, nor freedom from it a source of joy.  AB05095

I learned from thy letter what was mentioned regarding liberty. Therefore, I write what was revealed concerning it in the Most Holy Book, that every heedless and doubtful one may be awakened thereby. His glory be exalted! He saith: "Consider the pettiness of men's minds. They ask for that which injureth them, and cast away the thing that profiteth them. They are, indeed, of those that are far astray. We find some men desiring liberty, and priding themselves therein. Such men are in the depths of ignorance. Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition, whose flames none can quench. Thus warneth you He Who is the Reckoner, the All-Knowing. Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the animal. That which beseemeth man is submission unto such restraints as will protect him from his own ignorance, and guard him against the harm of the mischief maker. Liberty causeth man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and to infringe on the dignity of his station. It debaseth him to the level of extreme depravity and wickedness. Regard men as a flock of sheep that need a shepherd for their protection. This, verily, is the truth, the certain truth. We approve of liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse to sanction it in others. We, verily, are the All-Knowing. Say: True liberty consisteth in man's submission unto My commandments, little as ye know it. Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty. Happy is the man that hath apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His Will that pervadeth all created things. Say: The liberty that profiteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth. Whoso hath tasted of its sweetness will refuse to barter it for all the dominion of earth and heaven." By thy life, this helpless man hath not understood the purpose of the liberty of which the people of Europe speak. He should come into My presence that I may teach him and acquaint him with what they say. He hath heard a statement and followed it without comprehending its reality and the intent of its speaker. Everyone who uttereth the freedom mentioned by that man is called a manifestation of the beasts in creation. I marvel not at him, but rather at those who have attained the Water of Life, yet turn to hearken unto his croaking and the bleating of his like. Say: O people of Baha! By the True One! The essential liberty hath submitted to that servitude which hath appeared through the love of God and His Cause. It behooveth you to see yourselves above the world and all therein of creation, and what they possess of conjectures, idle fancies, and statements arising from darkened and heedless hearts. BH01770 

First, know that the divine teachings encompass all teachings. They are like a skilled physician - every patient can find therein their own remedy. Among the questions is that of freedom. The reality of freedom exists with utmost power in the divine teachings, that is, the freedom of the human world. Therefore, that thirsty one will find the fountain of freedom in the divine teachings. Likewise with other matters - those questions which are essential to the world of existence and conducive to the exaltation of the human world - all are to be found within the divine teachings.  AB00657


