What is meant in the prophecies by the Lord of hosts, the promised Christ, is the Blessed Perfection (Baha'u'llah) and his holiness the Exalted One (the Bab)  AB00252

He gave the impression of being very modest about his own teaching, adding that the East was in a bad way, needed light, and had to be told these things. That was the reason for Bahaullah and the Bab.  ABU2096

The Manifestations are as suns in the Heaven of the Divine Will. Sometimes the sun and moon are far apart; for instance, in the middle of month they are 180 degrees from each other. But in the beginning and end of the lunar month they are only one degree apart. In the Qur'an Muhammad prophesied that in this Day the Sun and Moon will meet in Heaven; that is, the spiritual Sun and Moon of this Dispensation will rise together in the form of man.   ABU0107

Verily, He appeared once by the name of 'Ali, then by this name in His final return.   BH04852

Verily, He appeared by the name of Ali in the first time, then by the name of Husayn in another time   BH05170

This is the foundation of the belief of the people of Baha (may my life be offered up for them): "His Holiness, the Exalted One (the Bab), is the Manifestation of the Unity and Oneness of God and the Forerunner of the Ancient Beauty. His Holiness the Abha Beauty (may my life be a sacrifice for His steadfast friends) is the Supreme Manifestation of God and the Dayspring of His Most Divine Essence. All others are servants unto Him and do His bidding." AB00001

Say: Verily He appeared aforetime under the name of 'Ali before Nabil, and in this Revelation under the name of Husayn before 'Ali.  BH05909

He has come as 'Ali came from the heaven of the Cause with manifest sovereignty, and He commands you but what 'Ali commanded before.   BH03269

"I wrote that his highness The Supreme (Bab) was the fore-runner like John the Baptist, like the dawn. The Blessed Beauty is the sun"  ABU2798


The second obligation is to establish the oneness of the invisible Beauty of Abha and the perfect divine Manifestation of the Primal Point  AB01545

The Ancient Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones) did not meet in person with the Exalted One (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him).   AB11477


The Qayyum hath appeared after the Qa'im and hath arisen to the Cause with a sovereignty before which all who are in the heavens and on earth shall bow down   BH05834

However, O my God, since he believed in Thee through Thy First Beauty...and acknowledge Thy Later Beauty just as he acknowledged Thy majesty in Thy First Beauty  BH04771

This is the Primal Point, Who circles round the Throne and proclaims with His most exalted call: "O my people! This is He Whom I gave you glad tidings of in the Books of God"  BH02712

So blessed are you and I, both of whom entered under the shadow of servitude to His Holiness the Herald (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) and His Holiness the Abha Beauty   AB06258

In this greatest period there are only two manifestation, the blessed Bab (May my soul be a random to him!) and the Manifestation of the Blessed Perfection (Glory be to Him!).   ABU1181

Those denied God when He appeared with the name of 'Ali in truth, and these have denied Him when He appeared once again with this Name, at which all who are in the heavens and earth were struck with terror.   BH02782

Say: Verily He appeared once in the name of 'Ali, and this is His subsequent manifestation, whereat all who are in the heavens and on earth were struck with terror, save them whom God preserved through His grace   BH02901

know thou that the first one We sent with truth was Ali whom We caused to shine forth from the Persian horizon and sent down upon clouds of the Spirit from an exalted heaven, and the last one We sent was also Ali  BH01828

"To remove any source of differentiation, the Believers must know that the Blessed Bab was giving the glad tidings of the coming of the Blessed Perfection, and the Blessed Perfection was the Great Manifestation."   ABU2363

Say: By God! The Beauty of the First hath appeared in the Point of the Last. By God! This is thy Lord, the Most High, and whoso turneth away from Him and denieth His signs hath indeed gone astray and transgressed.   BH02033

I manifested Myself aforetime under the name of 'Ali...He is My Beloved and I am His Beloved. Whatsoever appeareth from Me is His purpose...He spoke not except in praise of Me, and I speak not except in remembrance of Him   BH02736

In the books of all religions, two Promised Ones were foretold, just as in the Gospel there is the coming of Elijah and Christ, by which is meant the Bab and Baha'u'llah. There will be no third Manifestation until a thousand years.  AB00465

the two calves did transgress against God in these two Names and these two most ancient Ornaments in the two most exalted Words...This is the Beauty manifest in these two hidden and concealed Symbols that are glorified in both worlds  BH02437


Every proof and prophecy, every manner of evidence, whether based on reason or on the text of the scriptures and traditions, are to be regarded as centered in the persons of Baha'u'llah and the Bab. In them is to be found their complete fulfillment.  AB11448

"This is the Day whereon the Point of the Bayan called out from the midmost heart of Paradise, saying: 'O people! This is He in Whose path I laid down My life. This is He for Whose sake I revealed Myself and of Whose presence I bore unto you the most joyful tidings.'"  BH00421


He it was Whom Thou hast determined to be the Herald of Thy Most Great Revelation and the Announcer of Thy Most Ancient Splendor... And when Thy promise came to pass and the set time was fulfilled, He Who is the Possessor of all Names and Attributes was made manifest unto men.   BH02872

It is this same Manifestation Whose covenant Thou hast bidden Him establish ere He had established His own covenant. He it is Whose praise the Bayan hath celebrated. In it His excellence hath been extolled, and His truth established, and His sovereignty proclaimed, and His Cause perfected.   BH00778

"you heard with your heart and soul the life-giving call of the Primal Point, His Holiness the Exalted One (may my spirit and being be sacrificed for Him), and responded with heart and soul "Yea, verily" to the call of "Am I not?" from the Abha Beauty (may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones)"  AB04328

This is the sincere, true, clear and evident belief of the people of the Most Glorious Kingdom and the dwellers of the Supreme Heaven: that the Universal Manifestations, who are the Primal Points, the Suns of Truth, and the Sources of divine outpourings, culminated in the Most Great Manifestation and the Ancient Beauty  AB02251

Ye have been illumined by the guiding light of the glad tidings emanating from the morning brightness of the Bab, may my spirit be a sacrifice to His exalted holiness. And ye have received a generous portion from the effulgent rays of the loving providence of the great Luminary of the Concourse on High, the Abha Beauty Himself.  AB03326

In the Book of the Zend-Avesta the Zoroastrians are awaiting the Coming of two Manifestations. Also, in the Old Testament Scriptures there is the promise of Elijah and Messiah. In the Gospel of the New Testament they are expecting the Father and the Second Coming of Christ. Likewise, in the Qur'an the Muhammadans have the promise of the Imam Mihdi and Christ.  ABU0466

All nations await two Manifestations, and these two Manifestations signify the Blessed Beauty (i.e. Baha'u'llah) and His Holiness the Bab. Words are different, but the purpose is one. One has called Him "Mahdi" and another hath called Him "Christ". One hath named the Blessed Beauty (i.e. Baha'ullah) the "Lord of Hosts" and another hath called Him the "Heavenly Father".  AB00232

All the peoples of the world are awaiting two Manifestations, Who must be contemporaneous. This is what they all have been promised. In the Torah the Jews are promised the Lord of Hosts and the Messiah. In the Gospel, the return of Christ and Elijah is foretold. In the religion of Muhammad there is the promise of the Mahdi and the Messiah.... Now, one must prove the advent of these twin Manifestations by reference to the sacred scriptures and by inference from the sayings of the Prophets. For our intention now is to provide arguments drawn from the sacred scriptures, since rational arguments establishing the truth of these two Manifestations were presented at table a few days ago.  AB00030

The appearance of His Holiness the Primal Point, Herald of the Blessed Beauty (may my spirit be sacrificed for Him) in the dream world indicates the manifestation of lights and diffusion of signs...this "Ha" is the "Ha" of Identity which falls between "Ba" and "Alif" and indicates that the first Manifestation is contained within the second Manifestation. The Second Manifestation represents the completion of the Word.  AB00906

