I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee.  BH11209

Your call was heard and you have attained the Most Great Bounty which is the recognition of the Lord of Eternity. Now strive to act according to His ordinances which have been sent down from the Holy Pen in the Most Holy Book. BH11237

God hath created all specifically for the recognition of the Dawning-Place of His verses and the Dayspring of His evidences.  BH06397

Deeds must follow recognition - thus have you been commanded in all the Tablets and in this blessed, mighty and praiseworthy Tablet   BH02047

Say: O people, the first duty is to recognize the one true God -- magnified be His glory -- the second is to show forth constancy in His Cause  BH10068

God desireth naught from you on this day save obedience to God's true Command through the truth - an everlasting reward from God, the Ancient One.  BB00002

I summon the loved ones of God, exalted be His glory, to two most great matters: first, the recognition of the Ancient Being, and second, steadfastness in His Cause.   BH07543

The first step is the recognition of God, exalted be His glory, and afterward to act according to that which hath been sent down in the Book from the Pen of the All-Bountiful.   BH10672

Two most great matters have been and shall ever be: first, the recognition of the Ancient Being, and second, adherence to that which hath dawned from the horizon of His Command.   BH07273

The beginning of faith in God, exalted be His glory, has been and is [recognition], and its end is steadfastness in it. Blessed is he who has attained unto both the first and the second.   BH11016

The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation.  Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous deed.  It behoveth every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world.  These twin duties are inseparable.  Neither is acceptable without the other.  BH00001

This is why in divine religions, the acceptance of human deeds is contingent upon recognition of the Dawning Place of God's command, and knowledge and recognition are dependent upon acting according to the counsels of the All-Bountiful King  ABU1916

In brief, two things are necessary and obligatory for man: First, religion, which preserves him from transgressions and sins - blessed is he who hath adorned his head with the crown of piety and his temple with the armor of the fear of God. Second are deeds, for through deeds and character man is distinguished from the animal.  BH03974

Give thanks to thy Lord for having aided thee to recognize the Dawning-Place of Revelation and for having made thee among those who have turned unto Him. The first duty is the recognition of God, exalted be His glory, and after this steadfastness in this mighty Cause.  BH08707

This verse does not mean that those who are veiled from God are all equal whether they be doers of good or workers of iniquity. It means only that the foundation is the recognition of God and that good deeds derive from this knowledge. Nevertheless, it is certain that among those who are veiled from God there is a difference between the doer of good and the sinner and malefactor.  AB05486

The supreme cause for creating the world and all that is therein is for man to know God. In this Day whosoever is guided by the fragrance of the raiment of His mercy to gain admittance into the pristine Abode, which is the station of recognizing the Source of divine commandments and the Dayspring of His Revelation, hath everlastingly attained unto all good. Having reached this lofty station a twofold obligation resteth upon every soul. One is to be steadfast in the Cause with such steadfastness that were all the peoples of the world to attempt to prevent him from turning to the Source of Revelation, they would be powerless to do so. The other is observance of the divine ordinances which have streamed forth from the wellspring of His heavenly-propelled Pen. For man’s knowledge of God cannot develop fully and adequately save by observing whatsoever hath been ordained by Him and is set forth in His heavenly Book.  BH02898

All the Books have been sent down in order to establish the truth of this Cause. Whoso turneth away hath verily denied God and His Messengers and His Books which were sent unto the worlds. Say: All Books have been expounded from this mighty Book. He who denieth this Book, naught shall be accepted from him though he act according to what is in the Books of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. All things have been made dependent upon this Cause - this if ye be of them that comprehend. Every mention hath been consummated by this Mention and every foundation by this firm Foundation. BH09938
