
The first bestowal of the All-Knowing God is heavenly wisdom and understanding, divine intelligence and knowledge  AB10488

Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of the ocean of knowledge. All that appears hath appeared from the gulfs that branch forth from this ocean, were ye to know.   BH09589

Pure praise and the essence of glorification befit the sacred and holy court of the Intended One, Who created all existence with a single word and distinguished man through insight and knowledge above all else. He is the divine seal in the scroll of the world, He is the Most Great and Glorious Talisman, the honored Essence. And the intent of this insight is not the outward sight which other than man also possesses, rather it is that insight which has dawned from the shining lights of the Sun of the word He comprehendeth all vision. How lofty is the station of man if he attains to its conditions and becomes aware of its degrees!  BH02002

Knowledge is of two kinds: existential knowledge and formal knowledge--that is, intuitive knowledge and conceptual knowledge.  AB00780

Praise be to the peerless Lord Who hath illumined the heaven of man's station with two brilliant stars - sight and knowledge.   BH05413

Though physical sight be deprived, praise be to God that spiritual vision existeth and the grace of the Lord of existence is evident.  AB08851

All are blind but you are endowed with sight. All are earthly but you are heavenly. Although you live on earth, you soar high in heaven.  ABU1679

We beseech God to grant success to all, that they may not remain deprived of the ocean of knowledge and bereft of the kingdom of insight   BH07154

They have eyes, but do not see; they have ears, but do not hear; they have hearts, but do not understand -- yet I will grant them healing.  ABU3746

Thus have We lit the lamp of knowledge amidst all possibilities. Blessed is he who is illumined thereby, and woe unto those who turn away.   BH06242

They who have been given insight by God are such as would not exchange it for the treasures of the heavens and earth, could ye but know it.   BH08076

Praise be to God that ye have drunk from the ocean of divine knowledge of the All-Merciful and received your portion from the Sun of God's love.  BH03969

Through Him the clouds of the will of your Lord, the All-Merciful, rain down the showers of knowledge upon the heart of every discerning believer  BH03863

How wonderful, how wonderful that you have turned to the manifest light and drunk from the fountain of certitude and attained unto true certainty  AB11976

therefore, in the Gospel it is said, 'You should have one mind,' i.e., the heavenly mind through which the bounty and grace of Christ is obtained   ABU3066

The light of guidance hath dawned from the daybreak of eternity...that thou mayest receive abundantly from the outpourings of thy Praiseworthy Lord  AB09708

O Lord! Illumine their eyes with the light of Thy knowledge and brighten their inner vision with the radiance of beholding the signs of Thy oneness   AB01940


Most men on earth are deprived of the city of inner meanings, but thou, praise be to God, hast attained thereunto. Know thou the value of this most great bounty and mighty gift  BH03962


Know thou that human beings are of two kinds. Some are of a material inclination, enslaved to the world of nature...The other kind of human beings are those who seek the sublime world  AB04410

Though outwardly blind, His Holiness Isaac was in truth seeing. Though His Holiness Jacob's "eyes turned white with grief," yet with the touch of Joseph's garment "his sight returned."   AB05538

When knowledge and insight, the light of faith, and love of the All-Merciful unite in consciousness, the themes that spring from the heart are inevitably sweet and the meanings colorful.   AB12088

mind is of two kinds; one is a worldly mind which seeks the livelihood. This mind is universal--is possessed by every individual. The other is a divine mind; it is directed to the Divine world   ABU3066

shine forth with the light of knowledge in the gatherings of utterance, that the mystery of exposition may be revealed in human reality, and eyes may be illumined by witnessing the signs of your Lord   AB02175

O dervish, know that knowledge is of two kinds: one is error and one is guidance. Error is the portion of the ignorant...Knowledge is of two kinds: knowledge of bodies and knowledge of religions.  AB00791

Luminous bodies are of two kinds: one that derives its light from another, whose luminosity is a deposited sign, and the other that is inherent, which is an established sign of the Ancient Beauty  AB10100


Knowledge is of two kinds: One knowledge relates to the Divine Essence...The other knowledge is in the realm of action, meaning it is identical with what is known, and that is realization externally.   AB00954

Those possessed of insight see the world illumined by the rays of the Sun of Truth, but the blind ones are deprived of beholding the light. They say the day is night and cry out that the morning is evening.   AB05834

Such has always been the mystery of the days of God's Manifestations. A person with eyes and face can see stars millions of miles away, but a blind person cannot even see the sun, despite its light and warmth.  ABU3681

I swear by the pearls of the divine ocean of knowledge that whosoever attained unto a drop thereof forsook the world and all that dwell therein, and set his face toward the ultimate goal, the most exalted summit and the highest horizon.   BH00649

"Great is the station of him who hath in this Day perceived and become aware of the truth, and wretched is he who hath failed to comprehend the utterances of the Lord of wisdom and to recognize the newly-arrived Friend in His new attire."  BH02950

Adorn the meadow of guidance, make to grow the flowers of inner meanings, and place the crown of bounty upon the head of the nightingale of the spirit. Call the spiritual nightingales to sing their songs and teach them the realities and meanings.  AB04506

Holding out in His hand a piece or very thin paper before His eyes, Abdul Baha said:- "See what a slight thing will shut off our physical sight, so will a slight indiscretion, a cross word, an adverse criticism shut off the delicate spiritual sight."   ABU2610

Not everyone who has the form of a human being is worthy of the Most Great Panorama, nor will such a one necessarily be accounted a human being before God. For all who remain bereft of the robe of mystical insight are reckoned as beasts of the field by God.  BH10402

Endeavor with thy soul, so that the fountain of knowledge may flow within thy heart and the bounties of mysteries may pour upon thee from the Kingdom of Lights. Then thou wilt understand the meanings hidden and recorded in the symbols in the Holy Scriptures.   AB02800


How excellent is the state of one who sees with insight and the condition of one who ponders on past ages. Should a soul attain but a drop from the ocean of wisdom, surely neither the world nor aught within it would deter him from the Straight Path and the Strong Cord.  BH03969

The truly learned one is he whose knowledge prevents him from all that My good-pleasure and His good-pleasure abhorreth, and the mature one is he who hath attained unto the dawning-place of My knowledge; and apart from this none is mature, even though he may live [for...] years  BH11413

The lights from the Kingdom of God are manifest like the brilliant sun... Though it may be hidden from physical sight, it is evident and manifest to spiritual insight. Though the material eye may be deprived, the eye of the heart and soul has attained to the bounty of the divine presence  AB05160


For the spirit, the food of divine knowledge - by God, this hath been sent down from the heaven of My grace upon My creatures. Blessed is he who recognizeth it and attaineth unto it, for he is of the sincere ones. And for the body, that which We have brought forth from the earth as a bounty from Us  BH05836


O thou seeing one! Know thou, verily, God hath preferred the insight to the sight, because the sight seeth the material things, while the insight apprehendeth the spiritual. The former witnesseth the earthly world, while the latter seeth the world of the Kingdom. The former's judgment is temporary, while the latter's vision is everlasting.  AB11091

Christ's teachings were heavenly, and we must have a heavenly mind in order to comprehend them. The mind of Nicodemus bore the same relation to the teachings of Jesus that a child's mind bears to the man's mind which is, in a sense, perfect. Nicodemus had an earthly mind, and only understood earthly things. heavenly things are alone understood by heavenly minds.  ABU1762

When I speak of health, I refer to spiritual health. The health of the body is impermanent. However carefully one seeks to preserve it, he will inevitably some time become ill - his body broken. But spiritual health passeth not away; it is attained when the spirit of man is delivered from the conditions of this darkened world, and becomes enveloped and permeated by divine qualities.  ABU0964

Although the discovery of the North Pole was an important matter--I do not meant to abase this effort; it was a great endeavor achieved by Mr. Peary--yet the purpose is this: If he had discovered the mysteries of the Kingdom, he could train some souls who would be able to discover all the poles; the physical pole as well as the spiritual pole; the earthly as well as the heavenly pole.   ABU1509

Although, materially speaking, thou art deprived of physical sight, yet, praise be to God, spiritual insight is thine. Thy heart seeth and thy spirit heareth. Bodily sight is subject to a thousand maladies and assuredly will ultimately be lost. Thus no importance should be attached to it. But the sight of the heart is illumined. It discerneth and discovereth the divine Kingdom. It is everlasting and eternal.   AB02568

The insight (or inner perception) is a correct sight, for it never blundereth. But the outward sight doth err (or misjudgeth); it seeth the mirage as water, considereth the revolving flame as a circle, imagineth the images reflected in a mirror as a reality and judgeth huge bodies as small ones, from a remote distance. There are many evidences as to the blundering of the sight; but the insight apprehendeth the reality and discovereth the mysteries.   AB01410

Sight is physical; insight is ideal. There are many people who have the power of sight but they lack insight. Insight perceives and unfolds the spiritual susceptibilities of consciousness. It discerns the realities of phenomena. Sight is the faculty of observing things but it is not the apprehender of things. Insight becomes cognizant of the real state of things and piercing through the veil of appearances it goes to the very heart of a given object.  ABU1093

How many divines and philosophers, after years of searching and waiting, failed to attain their goal, while how many heedless souls, upon merely hearing the verses of the Lord of Names, turned to the Most Exalted Horizon! The example of one who has acquired knowledge but not attained unto the Known is like unto one who might gather countless precious stones yet remain unable to recognize true gold - that is, he knows not gold itself whereby he might test those stones.   BH00466

Consider that Christ reckoned as dead those who were nonetheless outwardly and physically alive, for true life is life eternal and true existence is spiritual existence. Thus if the sacred scriptures speak of raising the dead, the meaning is that they attained everlasting life; if they say that one who was blind was made to see, the meaning of this seeing is true insight; if they say that one who was deaf was made to hear, the meaning is that he acquired an inner ear and attained spiritual hearing.  AB00381

Man is possessed of two types of susceptibilities. One is physical, the other spiritual, in character. Physical susceptibilities have their avenues of expression, and spiritual susceptibilities likewise have their avenues. The physical, or material susceptibilities have their channels of expression in the physical realm. Earthly fraternity is due either to a family relationship, or to a commercial bond, or to a bond of love based upon policy or politics, or to a racial bond which supplies that affection, or to a bond patriotic in foundation. These are physical susceptibilities and ordinary outward love. But spiritual susceptibilities, namely, real love and heavenly fraternity, emanate through divine channels. They emanate from faith, or they emanate from knowledge, or they emanate from the bounty of the Holy Spirit, or they emanate from the effulgence of the Sun of Reality.  ABU0228

Furthermore, knowledge is of two kinds: One knowledge relates to the Divine Essence - it is essential divine knowledge, identical with the Essence, not distinct from it, for in that station there is pure unity, and the Essence comprises all names and attributes. That essential divine knowledge is incomprehensible. The other knowledge is in the realm of action, meaning it is identical with what is known, and that is realization externally. Sight connects with an existent thing, not with a non-existent thing. Knowledge can connect with a non-existent thing, but sight cannot. This is why He says "when He created, He saw that it was good." Those versed in divine mysteries maintain that knowledge is of two kinds: One kind is perception of a thing without a distinct form in the mind - this is essential knowledge. The second knowledge is formal knowledge, which is witnessed knowledge, meaning perception of a thing with its distinct form in the mind. This witnessing of Truth refers to witnessed knowledge. But existential knowledge is identical to God's Essence - like God's Essence it cannot be comprehended, and none can fathom its essential reality. AB00945

Perceptions are of two kinds: one kind is based on the five senses and the other kind is based on the powers of reason.   ABU2965



