
First we must find the candle, then the lantern. ABU1121

Let your ambition be the achievement on earth of a Heavenly civilization!  ABU0577

This is a civilization that Baha'u'llah established in the East. It is a civilization that tends to the domain of character; it is a civilization that conduces to universal peace; it is a civilization that promotes the unity of the world of humanity.  ABU3743

Material education alone cannot make the world happy. Spiritual civilization must assist the material civilization. The men of science and philosophy are the founders of the material education, but His Holiness Christ was the founder of the spiritual, divine civilization. Material civilization serves the world of men, but the spiritual civilization founds the world of morals. These two kinds of civilization must go hand in hand. The material civilization is like the lamp, but the spiritual civilization is like the light in the lamp. This lamp without the light is a useless thing. Therefore, in our day philosophy and science must go hand in hand with the spiritual civilization.   ABU0292


Therefore, this civilization and material progress should be combined with the Most Great Guidance so that this nether world may become the scene of the appearance of the bestowals of the Kingdom, and physical achievements may be conjoined with the effulgences of the Merciful. This in order that the beauty and perfection of the world of man may be unveiled and be manifested before all in the utmost grace and splendour.  AB00022

Material civilization is like unto the lamp, while spiritual civilization is the light in that lamp. If the material and spiritual civilization become united, then we will have the light and the lamp together, and the outcome will be perfect. For material civilization is like unto a beautiful body, and spiritual civilization is like unto the spirit of life.  ABU0275

'Abdu'l-Baha has the greatest love for you and therefore does He seek to establish the commonwealth of the Kingdom of God, the government of spiritual affairs and susceptibilities. These are what shall give life and become the cause of progress in the world of humanity. My hope is that ye may all be engaged in raising this mighty altar so that the peoples of the world may burn with the fire of the love of God.  AB04899

For six thousand years we have been walking on the left-hand path; let us walk on the right-hand path now. We have passed many centuries in darkness, let us advance towards the light.  ABU2033

the world of nature will become the manifestation of heavenly bounties   AB02094

The Baha'i teachings reveal the means of both material and spiritual progress.  ABU3409

Know that creation is of two kinds: physical creation and spiritual creation.   AB00538

We must disorganize humanism in order to construct a spiritual edifice in the world of humanity  ABU2289


the divine power and spiritual civilization which manifest extraordinary effects in the realities of souls   ABU3297


"Scientific discoveries have increased material civilization...until spiritual civilization shall dominate the human mind."  ABU2879

Whereas Western nations have perfected the machinery of natural civilization yet they are far left behind in divine civilization.   ABU2251

This exchange of gifts would form a true civilization, where spiritual ideals would be translated into action in the material world.   ABU3405

As New York has made such progress in material civilization, I hope that it may also advance spiritually in the Kingdom and Covenant of God   ABU0970

The Almighty has destined for him eternal life, spiritual existence, the perfections of the divine world and the virtues of the celestial realm.  ABU2385

All powers are impotent and limited and all created things are captive under the law of nature except for the divine power and spiritual civilization   ABU3297

the powers of material knowledge in this century have overcome the spiritual heart forces...the weak religion of our ancestors is no longer sufficient  ABU1127

then indeed, the millennium of progress and human perfection, the consummation of the glory and the prosperity of state and nation will become accomplished  ABU3180


Material civilization is likened to the body, whereas divine civilization is the spirit in that body. A body not manifesting the spirit is dead; a fruitless tree is worthless.   ABU1241

The difference between material civilization that restrains through punishment versus divine civilization that educates souls to naturally avoid evil and be attracted to virtues  AB00754


Japan hath made wonderful progress in material civilization, but she will become perfect when she also becometh spiritually developed and the power of the Kingdom becometh manifest in her.  AB02701

The people of this world are thinking of building palaces but the believers of God are thinking to build the Palace of Eternal life. That palace is only for a few days, this Palace is for eternity.  ABU1060

While it is true that its people have attained a marvelous material civilization, I hope that spiritual forces may animate this great body and a corresponding spiritual civilization be established.  ABU0676

civilization is among the fundamental principles of the Law of God - but religious civilization, not material civilization. Between these two there are thousands of leagues of distance and separation  AB00459

If a person studies all the sciences and arts, without heavenly Confirmations, he will not be able to accomplish very much. Now I hope you will become the Cause of moral and scientific advancement of all the Persians.   ABU1588

Without divine civilization the mysteries of the Kingdom are not revealed and the bounties of heaven are not ascertained... These perfections are attained through divine civilization of which the world of man is in need.   ABU2986

In America and Europe there are wonderful parks and gardens, but they are all the handiwork of man, the outcome of the artistic spirit of the inhabitants; but here nature reigns supreme, wild and primitive - - as God created it.   ABU1135

Paris in reality is a very artistic city. It has many interesting sights for the tourists. Many charming spots to charm the eyes. We might state that civilization has pitched its tents in Paris; but the tents is so big that there is great obscurity under it.   ABU2276


Therefore we need a unifying power that encompasses and prevails over all, so that no other force or cause remains dominant, but rather unites everyone. Without doubt this must be divine power, and except for spiritual power, no power can overcome these material forces  ABU1248

"Apparently some people may conceive that this is the height of happiness but it is material and fleeting. It does not last. The only abiding happiness is spiritual and ideal. That is real, all others are phantasmal and non-essential. The joy of the spirit confers Peace."  ABU1231

"The teachings, once established there, will unite the East and the West, the North and the South." "Should you become confirmed therein, this world will become another world, the surface of the earth will become the delectable paradise, and eternal Institutions be founded."   AB00094

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are spiritual, heavenly, luminous, free, freedom of conscience, deliver humanity from the world of dust and bring it to the pure world, are the breathings of the Holy Spirit, are eternal life, are the lights of the Sun of Reality, illumine the world.  AB07457


You have truly been progressive along material lines. The time has come to found and promulgate the spiritual civilization, and this divine civilization is no other than the teachings of the Prophets, so that the body and spirit may both keep up advancement and become as light on light.  ABU0757

Materially you are very well off, but you are in need of what I would term "divine" civilization... Material civilization is like a glass chimney. Divine civilization is like the light within the chimney or lantern. However much the chimney may be polished or clear, it is in need of light.   ABU0365

This material civilization is like a transparent glass while divine civilization is like a brilliant lamp. When that glass is illumined by this lamp, divine perfection will then be manifested. Thus material civilization is like a refined body which, no matter how beautiful it may be, still needs a spirit.  ABU1690

Then will they see what breath of life is breathed into them, what glory manifests itself, what degrees of progress are achieved in every way. Then will they see with their own eyes that lifeless Persia has been revived, that dilapidated land has been made to prosper, and that darksome Iran has been illumined.  ABU3762

But some people ask me, 'Is your country developed? Is it prosperous and has it good trees, sweet fruits, beautiful animals and swift Arabian horses?' But I speak to them of the trees of the world of existence, of the fruits of human virtues and of heavenly morals and traits and call people to the Kingdom of God.  ABU2596

The world of nature is endued with the qualities of the animal Kingdom; it is fraught with defects, bloodthirstiness, injustice, struggle for existence, wickedness, treason, hostility, rancour and beastly propensities, in short the world of nature is the arena of depraved immoralities, the field of corrupt vices.  ABU0599

Education is also of two kinds--material and spiritual. The material education is accomplished by intellectual means, but the spiritual is promoted by means of revelation. And it is meant by education and prophethood to perfect the soul and permit man to know the mysteries of God and to advance unto the grades of mankind.   ABU0272

The human beings in this earthly kingdom have been divided into two parts: One part is like the animals that have their home, their comfort and their joyous garden in this earthly Home and this lowly Hell...But there is another kind of people who are drunk from the Divine Cup and are free from all attachment to this mortal world  AB02751

It would be well for the West to turn to the East for illumination, and to give in exchange its scientific knowledge. There must be this interchange of gifts. The East and the West must unite to give to each other what is lacking. This union will bring about a true civilization, where the spiritual is expressed and carried out in the material.  ABU0937

For man two wings are necessary. One wing is physical power and material civilization; the other is spiritual power and divine civilization. With one wing only, flight is impossible. Two wings are essential. Therefore, no matter how much material civilization advances, it cannot attain to perfection except through the uplift of spiritual civilization.  ABU0275

Ninthly: Baha'u'llah taught that hearts must receive the Bounty of the Holy Spirit, so that Spiritual civilization may be established. For material civilization is not adequate for the needs of mankind and cannot be the cause of its happiness. Material civilization is like the body and spiritual civilization is like the soul. Body without soul cannot live.  ABU0257

But, were you able to organize a Baha'i educational Conference, that which the souls of mankind may receive the instructions of the Kingdom, obtain ideal perfections and become the manifestors of merciful susceptibilities, that is;- the spiritual and material virtues may join hands and the forces of the heavenly and natural civilizations may be linked together   AB03302

America and Europe have achieved the utmost progress in material civilization and are advancing day by day. It is hoped that divine civilization will also be established in these countries - that is, the civilization that the divine Prophets established, which pertains to the world of morals and spiritual education and is the cause of the spiritual progress of humanity.  ABU0729

Still another principle asserts that material civilization must be combined with spiritual (Divine) civilization. The former is likened to a globe and the latter is the light that shines therein. Again the former is like unto the body of man and no matter how charming that body may be, Divine civilization is the soul and a lifeless body is assuredly void of any importance.   AB00374

Baha'u'llah teaches that material civilization is incomplete, insufficient and that divine civilization must be established. Material civilization concerns the world of matter or bodies, but divine civilization is the realm of ethics and moralities. Until the moral degree of the nations is advanced and human virtues attain a lofty level, happiness for mankind is impossible.  ABU0040

The teachings of Baha'u'llah are the spirit of this age; for although material civilization has advanced, yet divine civilization is left behind. We are in need of divine civilization for material civilization without the aid of spiritual civilization is of no avail. Were divine civilization visible and active, wonderful traces would have been left from material civilization.  ABU0940

No matter how far the material world advances, it cannot establish the happiness of mankind. Only when material and spiritual civilization are linked and coordinated will happiness be assured. Then material civilization will not contribute its energies to the forces of evil in destroying the oneness of humanity, for in material civilization good and evil advance together and maintain the same pace.  ABU0051

It is possible for the mother to educate the child in such wise as to become the leader amongst the leaders or to leave him to evil environments as to become the worst criminal amongst men. They should receive a divine education, not like now when mothers from early childhood tell their sons they must become wealthy and millionaires, they have no other words except these, they never say be truthful and trustworthy, serve humanity.   ABU0985

If a piece of ground is left in its natural state, wild weeds, thorns and trees of the jungle will grow upon it. But if we cultivate that same piece of ground, the result will be that it will rid itself of natural imperfections and become transformed into a beautiful rose garden or an orchard of fruitful trees. This is proof that the world of nature is defective. The founding of schools and establishing of educational systems in the world are intended to replace the defects of nature with virtues and perfections.  ABU0280

Material civilization has reached an advanced plane, but now there is need of spiritual civilization. Material civilization alone will not satisfy; it cannot meet the conditions and requirements of the present age; its benefits are limited to the world of matter. There is no limitation to the spirit of man, for spirit in itself is progressive, and if the divine civilization be established, the spirit of man will advance. Material civilization has advanced unmistakably, but because it is not associated with divine civilization, evil and wickedness abound.  ABU0192

Material civilization is complete, but it needs heavenly illumination; it needs divine civilization. Divine civilization is the lamp and material civilization is the glass. Divine civilization is the spirit and material civilization is the body. Physical civilization alone is not sufficient, and humanity needs divine civilization in many ways. From physical civilization natural perfections are obtained; from divine civilization spiritual perfections are manifested. Physical civilization serves the world of nature; divine civilization serves the world of morals.  ABU0141

For in existence there are two civilizations: one is the material, natural civilization which serves the physical world, and the other is the divine civilization which renders service to the world of morals. The founders of material civilization are the wise ones of humanity, while the founders of divine civilization are the holy Manifestations of God. Religion is the foundation of divine civilization. Material civilization is as the body, while divine civilization is as the spirit. The body without the spirit is dead, though it be in the utmost freshness and grace.  AB00279

And among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is that although material civilization is one of the means for the progress of the world of mankind, yet until it becomes combined with Divine civilization, the desired result, which is the felicity of mankind, will not be attained. Consider! These battleships that reduce a city to ruins within the space of an hour are the result of material civilization; likewise the Krupp guns, the Mauser rifles, dynamite, submarines, torpedo boats, armed aircraft and bombers--all these weapons of war are the malignant fruits of material civilization.  AB00016

Until the heavenly civilization is founded, no result will be forthcoming from material civilization, even as you observe. See what catastrophes overwhelm mankind. Consider the wars which disturb the world. Consider the enmity and hatred. The existence of these wars and conditions indicates and proves that the heavenly civilization has not yet been established. If the civilization of the Kingdom be spread to all the nations, this dust of disagreement will be dispelled, these clouds will pass away, and the Sun of Reality in its greatest effulgence and glory will shine upon mankind.   ABU0174

Kindness is of two types: a kindness that is offered because of the recipient and one that is independent of the recipient. For instance, there is much love and affection among the people, but this is of the first type. It is because of some worldly consideration or is associated with some expectation that comes with rendering this kindness. Such affections will eventually come to an end. But there is a love that is offered for the sake of God. For example, you may love someone because he is a believer and has faith in God, and not because you want to use him for some purpose or receive some gain.   ABU2165

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is this: That man is possessed of two natures. He is in need of two civilizations. One is the material civilization, which assures the perfect order of his physical welfare; and the other is his spiritual life, or spiritual civilization, which is the divine civilization insuring happiness everlasting. As to the material civilization, the men of dignity on the earth are the founders, and man is in need of them. As to the divine civilization, the founders thereof are the manifestations holy and divine. Man cannot attain to happiness everlasting through the sole agency of material civilization.  ABU0021

Evil deeds, unacceptable actions, harmful lies and that which proceeds from them appear in creation in the form of fires, hell, the Zaqqum tree, thorny plants, and in the form of all wickedness, abhorrence, illness, sorrows, poisons, swords, arrows and spears... O what longing for spiritual virtues, goodly deeds, truthful and beneficial words, and that which appeareth therefrom of the raised heaven and spread earth and shining suns and gleaming moons and brilliant stars and pure springs and flowing rivers and gentle breezes and lofty palaces and towering trees and gathered fruits and low-hanging clusters and singing birds and reddened leaves and fragrant flowers!  BH00423

In this journey, although it became clear and evident that the Western world has made extraordinary progress in material civilization, divine civilization is nearly wholly forgotten, for all thoughts are immersed in the world of nature. Everything manifests the splendors of the natural world, not divine splendors. And since in the world of nature there are many imperfections, therefore the lights of divine civilization are hidden and nature has become sovereign. Today in the human world, material civilization is like a glass of utmost delicacy, but alas, a thousand times alas, this glass is deprived of the lamp--and that lamp is divine civilization, which the holy Manifestations of God have established.  AB00269

"I know, verily, that the universal, never ending, eternal, bright and divine establishments are only the diffusing of the breaths of God, and the spreading of the instructions of God, and all that are beside these, though they be the reigning over all the regions of the earth, or the construction of railroads from the earth to the heavens, or means of transportation with the rapidity of rising lightning from the globe of earth to the globe of the sun, all are mortal, perishing, demolishing and disadvantageous, in comparison with the divine establishments. Because the latter (divine establishments) are intrinsic matters, while the former are but metaphorical matters; the latter are truth, while the former are imaginary."  AB02846

Therefore it became evident that education is absolutely essential in a civilized society. And civilization is of two kinds, material and spiritual. The latter pertaineth to the realm of human conduct and character. Until these two types of civilization blend together within human society, prosperity and salvation can in no wise be attained. Consider the continent of Europe where the tabernacle of material civilization is raised high, yet it is immersed in darkness. All thought is directed toward the struggle for existence. Every day men equip themselves with new weapons and produce large quantities of incendiary bombs and explosives. Peace and tranquillity have altogether ceased to exist, and the people are greatly oppressed with destitution and perplexities, simply because moral civilization, spirituality and attraction to divine fragrances are completely forgotten.  AB00287
