The inner essence of all the Messengers is the word "There is no God but God", while their outward reality is the expression of themselves in every Dispensation through what is manifested from them. Will ye not reflect? Say: The example of what is manifested in the Messengers is like unto the sun, if ye would but perceive.  BB00005

When I contemplate, O my God, the relationship that bindeth me to Thee, I am moved to proclaim to all created things "verily I am God!"; and when I consider my own self, lo, I find it coarser than clay!   BH11435

whenever this Youth turneth His eyes towards His own self, he findeth it the most insignificant of all creation. When He contemplates, however, the bright effulgences He hath been empowered to manifest, lo, that self is transfigured before Him into a sovereign Potency permeating the essence of all things visible and invisible.   BH11250

Jesus Christ had the same two conditions, the earthly and the heavenly, and man has the same.  ABU1999

For the Holy Manifestations have two stations: the station of unity and the station of distinction.  AB00940

One station physical and one station spiritual. In other words, one station of humanity and one station of divine reality.  AB05731

Our Lord said that the Prophets and Suns of God possessed two states or conditions. 1st, the Spiritual; second, the material.   ABU1460

At times thou seest it as the waters of life upon which depends the life of all the worlds, and at times thou seest it in human form.  BH07088

When He saith "I am the servant of God," it is as His saying "I am the Beloved of the worlds." Thus hath it ever been in His kingdom   BH02482

Christ was a divine mercy which shone upon all mankind, the medium for the descent of the bounty of God, and the bounty of God is transcendent, unrestricted, universal.  ABU0118

And for that He has ordained two stations: the station of the Unseen wherein naught is seen of Him, and the station of Manifestation wherein naught is seen except His Primal Will.  BB00005

The Body of Christ was born of Mary of Nazareth, but the Spirit was of God. The capacities of His human body were limited but the strength of His spirit was vast, infinite, immeasurable.  ABU0735

If you look in the mirror, it is only glass, but it is the place of the Light and Brilliancy of God. The mirror has no Light in itself, but all comes from God: thus the Father is in the Son.  ABU1760

The word 'same' means that the reality is one. Just as the sun arises from several points. This sun after one month will arise from another point. It is just like this; but the reality is the same sun.  ABU3512

As for the one addressed in the Temple, it is the outward form of His Most Holy Temple, and - exalted be His grandeur - at times He addresseth His outward form with the tongue of His inward reality, and likewise the reverse.  BH11712

The other beings have each received only a portion of that light, but the universal Manifestation of God is the mirror held before this Sun, and the latter manifests itself therein with all its perfections, attributes, signs and effects.  AB00395

For this Word, which is the Pivot of the Book of God, two stations have been ordained in creation and law. The first station tells of the Manifestation of God amongst His servants, for all divine commands and prohibitions appear from Him.   BH05024


The Holy Manifestations of God possess two stations. One station is that of the human being, and the other is that of the divine and luminous, the station of heavenly manifestation and revelation. The station of divine revelation is hidden while the human station is apparent.  ABU0103

This station is the station in which one dieth to himself and liveth in God. Divinity, whenever I mention it, indicateth My complete and absolute self-effacement. This is the station in which I have no control over mine own weal or woe nor over my life nor over my resurrection.  BH00005

After God hath ordained for His Friend the period of occultation, then shall ye be guided by His light. And from the first day when God desireth to raise up the religion of truth, then shall He grant leave unto His Friend to recite from the Book of his Lord as He willeth by His command.  BB00004

The sanctified realities of the Manifestations of God have two spiritual stations: One is that of the state of divine manifestation, which can be compared to the orb of the sun, and the other is that of radiance and revelation, which may be likened to the divine light and perfections--the Holy Spirit.  AB01521

The holy Manifestations have three stations: the corporeal station, the station of the rational soul, and the station of perfect divine manifestation and heavenly splendour. Their bodies perceive things only according to the capacity of the material world; and so it is that they have at certain times expressed physical weakness.  AB00747

Now is my soul troubled, in this passage 'soul' means the personality, the human nature, or body of Christ - not His spirit which was perfectly happy. The body of Jesus was perfect - His perfect and obedient servant, naturally was sorry and grieved that this great spirit would leave it - though this body was in entire subjection and obedience.  ABU0044

All Divine Manifestations give up all personal conditions, considerations and grades in the Cause of God to such an extent that there is nothing judged of their personality; that is, they sacrifice their personality entirely in the world; their life is only the life of God, their thought is the thought of God and their grades are those chosen by God.  ABU0313

Christ appeared in a human form - body. The human body has two conditions - an earthly and a spiritual one. There are always two roads, a worldly and an unworldly one; one of light and one of darkness; one of ignorance, the other of knowledge; one a spiritual and one an earthly. Christ had two natures; the human and the Divine; the satan side and the spiritual side.  ABU0320

Therefore, all the Prophets from a beginning that hath no beginning find their existence in Him Whom God shall make manifest, and all who shall appear unto an end that hath no end derive their reality from Him Whom God shall make manifest. Thus in the ocean of names, if thou hast comprehended page 24 and aided it, thou shalt see naught but God, for these are mirrors wherein naught is seen save God.  BB00027

And for that Sun there are two stations of knowledge for creation: One station is that wherein all else are poor before Him, and He describeth Himself by His own Self, and considereth Himself sanctified above the suns in mirrors. In another station He characterizeth Himself as the sun in mirrors, saying I am the First Creation, and I am Noah, and I am Abraham, and I am Moses, and I am Jesus, and I am Muhammad, and thus doth He mention all the Prophets.  BB00005

For the Merciful Manifestation, the Divine Dawning-Place, and the Eternal Setting-Place hath two stations in the world of appearance and two ranks in the realm of manifestation. In the first station, He is the source of the water of life, the heavenly spring of salvation, and the spirit that pervades the realities of all things. In the second station, He is the fire kindled in the Blessed Tree, the blazing flame in the sacred Sinai, and the luminous flash in the mount of the divine spot.   AB00298

And since there hath never been and can never be any connection, relationship, harmony or resemblance between the created and the Creator, between the temporal and the eternal, between the contingent and the Absolute, therefore in every age and dispensation He manifesteth a pure essence in the realm of earth and heaven, and createth this divine subtlety and heavenly mystery from two elements: the outward physical element and the hidden divine element. And He createth in him two stations: one the station of reality, which is the station wherein he speaketh only by God his Lord, concerning which it is said in the tradition, "I have states with God wherein I am He and He is I, except that I am I and He is He," and likewise, "Stand still, O Muhammad, for Thou art the Beloved and Thou art the Love," and also, "There is no difference between Thee and them, save that they are Thy servants"; and the other the station of the human, concerning which He saith, "I am but a man like unto you," and "Say: Glory be to my Lord! Am I aught but a mortal messenger?"   BH00690


Man has two planes: the physical and the intellectual. The divine revelators have three: their physical condition, which is shared by all mankind - they eat, they sleep, they are sometimes ill, they become well again, they become fatigued, they undergo all that man can undergo; their intellectual degree and their holy reality which surrounds all beings and comprehends secrets.  ABU1953

We stated before that the Manifestations of God have three stations: first, the material reality, which pertains to the human body; second, the individual reality, that is, the rational soul; and third, the heavenly manifestation, which consists in the divine perfections and is the source of the life of the world, the education of the souls, the guidance of the people, and the enlightenment of all creation.  AB00477

The first station is connected to Their physical frame, which is subject to human limitations, such as movement and stillness, ascent and descent, sickness and health. The second station is that of the rational soul. In this station, They too experience afflictions, poverty, hardship, and such human conditions. The third station is that of Divine manifestation and the outpouring of ancient glory. In this station, all that pertains to Them is divine, and all that is expressed by Them is heavenly and of the Kingdom, for this station is neither of the contingent realm nor of the created world. Rather, it is a station sanctified above all earthly conditions.   AB00345

Although the Point of the Bayan was mentioned in the first gate, the Point of the Furqan in the second, and the revelation of the Qa'im in the fifteenth gate, the truth of this mystery lieth in the fact that the Point in Its station of pure transcendence, which is naught but the very utter Revelation of God Himself and is manifested by the name Divinity, is mentioned in the first gate. But the same Point in Its station of determination, which is the rank of the Primal Will, is mentioned in the second gate. Finally, the manifestation of the Point in Its station of standing supreme over (qa'imiyyat) all souls, which is a glory confined to the Revelation of the Fourteenth Sacred Soul, was mentioned in the fifteenth gate.  BB00001
