This old world of ours is undergoing undreamed of changes and revolutions. It is in a transitional state, shedding off its old skin and taking into itself new ligaments and building up new tissues. The happy and healthy children of a new order of public opinion are being born, the ethical laws of the world are in the process of a radical reformation and an entirely new code of statutes will be legislated for the international relations and the final consolidation of the modern and ancient nations.  ABU2497

America is the readiest and the freest nation to arise in the service of humanity and initiate new plans of philanthropy and encourage the establishment of Peace throughout all parts of the world. I always pray that the banner of international Comity and the solidarity of human race may be hoisted in America.  ABU2550

'Then,' said he, 'all the nations must come together, there must be a league of nations for the government of the world.'  He sketched out a sort of council appointed by the presidents, the kings, and the democracies.  'And the existing League?' we asked.  He smiled and shook his head. 'That is only the merest beginning. It is not representative of all. It palliates the disease, the disease of discord. It is no remedy.'  ABU2096

In this age, those human problems which create a general interest are universal; their results are likewise universal, for humanity has become interdependent. The international laws of today are of vast importance since international politics are bringing nations nearer to one another.  ABU0354

Thy blessed Cause - which is the greatest means of unifying the world and removing differences between nations   AB01054

Until government and nation mix together like honey and milk, success and prosperity are impossible and unattainable  ABU1602

Our hope is that their differences will be settled soon and amicable relations based on a sound permanent basis be established.   ABU2104

I hope that the unity of the human world and the unity of religions and harmony of mankind will be realized with perfect strength.  AB00833

"Just as there is unity among the states of the United States of America, it is possible to have it among the nations of the world"  ABU2324

The earth is but one country and all mankind its citizens. All are the progeny of Adam, and religion has no connection with politics.  AB12107

We wish well for both sides and guide both toward unity, so that, God willing, government and people may blend together like milk and sugar.  AB01606

Today the true duty of a powerful king is to establish a universal peace: for verily it signifies the freedom of all the people of the world.  ABU3109

When a conference is convened, representative of all nations and working under the influence of the Word of God, then universal peace will be established   AB04688

The oneness of the kingdom of humanity will supplant the banner of conquest, and all communities of the earth will gather under its protection. No nation with separate and restricted boundaries -- such as Persia, for instance -- will exist. The United States of America will be known only as a name. Germany, France, England, Turkey, Arabia -- all these various nations will be welded together in unity. When the people of the future are asked, "To which nationality do you belong?" the answer will be, "To the nationality of humanity. I am living under the shadow of Baha'u'llah. I am the servant of Baha'u'llah. I belong to the army of the Most Great Peace." The people of the future will not say, "I belong to the nation of England, France or Persia"; for all of them will be citizens of a universal nationality -- the one family, the one country, the one world of humanity -- and then these wars, hatreds and strifes will pass away. ABU0676

They say that soon the leaders of the world will adorn the universe and establish a universal peace celebration, and all peoples and nations will find rest from war and killing.  AB05466

If this association acts with independence and strives for the connection of East and West, it is among the principles of the unity of the human world if it becomes established   AB00968

Now again it is written that if the government and nation mix like honey and milk and conduct themselves with unity and accord, then well and good; otherwise the great calamity shall come.   AB01388

The Cry of Peace is being heard from every throat and the sweet, resonant harmony of Peace shall drown all the screeching noises of war. Blessed are those who are enlisted in the rank of Peace!   ABU1322

The fifth candle is unity of nations -- a unity which in this century will be securely established, causing all the peoples of the world to regard themselves as citizens of one common fatherland.  AB00143

It is most clear and manifest that national affairs will never revolve around their proper axis until the whole people have received instruction, and public thought has been directed to a single end  ABU3525

draft such a comprehensive plan of universal union that its reflection may be cast upon the mirror of the world of existence and be none other than the real prototype and portrait of the Realm on High  AB07844

This progress is due to the unity of government and people, who have combined and united to such a degree that separation has become impossible. From this agreement and unity, such progress has dawned and shone forth.   AB00146

The result will reach such a degree that soon individuals from Iran will sacrifice their lives for England, and likewise England will sacrifice itself for Iran...May the connection reach such a degree that it becomes eternal.  ABU0618

Now, since the League of Nations Conference established in London is among the branches of the unity of the human world, we therefore remember you with utmost respect that, praise be to God, you have arisen for this universal service  AB01148

It is incumbent upon the divine friends to unite the hearts of the nation, so that different parties may become one party, and so that through the unity and agreement of the nation every just government may gain strength and stability  AB05628

This association must gradually attain such organization and connection that truly no similar association shall have been established from the beginning of history until now. This must be the first association founded under such a title.  AB10593

These warships will be changed into merchant steamers binding the nations and countries more closely together. The cry of peace is being heard from every throat and the sweet, resonant melody of peace will drown all the screeching noises of war.  ABU1416

You can best serve your country if you strive, in your capacity as a citizen of the world, to assist in the eventual application of the principle of federalism, underlying the government of your own country, to the relationships now existing between the peoples and nations of the world. ABU3361

and the world of creation finds rest and the banner of universal peace is raised and the tent of human oneness is pitched and all humanity gathers under its shade and the star of humanity's eternal happiness shines with utmost brilliance from the horizon of universal peace.   AB00357

until government and people mix like honey and milk, and blend like water and wine, prosperity and success are impossible. For government and people are like vein and spirit, like body and arteries - until these two have complete connection, "Blessed be God, the best of creators" cannot be realized.   AB12113

Praise be to God that perfect love has been established between Germany and Islam - the Islamic world is enchanted with the German world and loves it infinitely. A good fellowship has been achieved. It is hoped that this love and fellowship will yield great results, meaning that it will spread to others.  AB04381

until the government and nation mix together like honey and milk, prosperity and success is impossible, Iran will be ruined and it will ultimately lead to the interference of neighboring powers. Therefore, the divine friends must strive with heart and soul to bring about reconciliation between the government and nation   AB00942

According to recent telegrams, good news of unity between government and people has arrived. His Majesty has ordered the implementation of constitutional government... prosperity and success are confined to unity between government and people. Until government and people mix like milk and sugar, comfort and ease is impossible   AB00496

Your aim, of course is the realization of universal Peace, but with what power or what executive force will you be able to bring it about? I hope that you will find this propelling power so that you may become assisted. In the matter of universal Peace, a great universal Power is necessary, what we may name a "Universal Collective Center." In the past there have appeared several "Collective Centers." These "Collective Centers" not being general in their various aspects have given only limited results. One of the "Collective Centers" has been and is yet considered the "spirit of nationalism."... Another "Collective Center" is "patriotism" the watchword and the battle-cry of the present nations. A third "Collective Center" is politics. ...all these "Collective Centers" instead of helping the cause of international Peace prevent its realization. Consequently in this illumined century, the intellectual evolution of humanity has advanced far enough as to create a "Universal Collective Center" around which all the nations may revolve, thus sacrificing their petty interests for the progress of the whole.
  ABU1222

For example, Christ, alone and single-handedly, raised the banner of peace and amity--a feat that the combined forces of all the mighty governments of the world are unable to accomplish. Consider how numerous are the diverse governments and peoples--such as Italy, France, Germany, Russia, England, and the like--who have been gathered together under the same canopy!  AB00081

May this American democracy be the first nation to establish the foundation of international agreement. May it be the first nation to proclaim the universality of mankind. May it be the first to upraise the standard of the Most Great Peace, and through this nation of democracy may these philanthropic intentions and institutions be spread broadcast throughout the world.   ABU0404

You can render this priceless service to your country and the world at large by calling together an International Congress of Universal Peace to be held annually in Egypt and invite to it hundreds of the world's foremost thinkers, scholars, philosophers and statesmen - in brief a Parliament of the world of humanity, a symposia of the East and the West, the North and the South.  ABU0265

As to the situation in Iran, it hath not yet found tranquility. Though outwardly calm, inwardly it is turbulent, and this turbulence stems from lack of unity and agreement of views. It was written from beginning to end that government and people must blend together like honey and milk, otherwise it is certain that the result of opposition is deadly poison and gives rise to hatred and rancor.  AB05281

"This Cause has spread all over the world. It has brought peace and tranquillity to different nations and religions, has united diverse peoples and has laid the foundation for the prosperity of mankind. Among its principles are the establishment of universal peace among nations and governments, the oneness of the world of humanity and the uniting of sects and religions under the tabernacle of unity."  ABU0945

The Baha'is' purpose is the reformation of the world, that improvement may be brought about among all nations and governments, that strife and contention may disappear, that war and battle may be abolished. Therefore they strive and endeavor with heart and soul, and sacrifice themselves, that government and nation, indeed all peoples and nations, may be united with one another and peace and reconciliation may come about   AB01314

If there has been possible in the past the formation of a United States of America, the next natural step will be the constitution of a United States of Europe, each state autonomous within its boundary, interdependent and working for the common prosperity, general advancement, expansion of commerce, diffusion of learning, the welfare of the whole community, the socialization of industries and the improvement of arts, inventions, crafts and sciences.  ABU1386

As the foundation of His Holiness Baha'u'llah, who is our leader, is international peace in the world of humanity, therefore we have come to visit those who are interested in these problems, and find out to what degree they have advanced. H. H. Baha'u'llah, 50 years ago, proclaimed universal peace to the nations, declared universal peace amongst the peoples, declared universal peace amongst the religions, invited people to universal peace amongst nativities, summoned people to international peace amongst religions.   ABU0382
