Under all conditions, exert your utmost effort to unite hearts and gather them together around the Divine Law of God's Cause.   BH00672

O people! Unite amongst yourselves and gather around the one Law  BH04688

Stand firm in the Cause of God, then gather the people unto the law of His love lest they differ in the Cause of God  BH03273

Be ye united, O My loved ones, then gather yourselves together under the law of My Cause, and be not of them that differ.  BH10130


That which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing of all the world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common Faith.  BH00662

Because with one thought and one aim ye are engaging yourselves in the building of this temple, O ye servants and maidservants of the Merciful, know verily that this great project will be conducive to the union and affinity of all the children of man.   ABU1581

Make not the religion of God a cause of variance among you. Verily of a truth, it was revealed for the unifying of the whole world.  BH11456


The second candle is unity of thought in world undertakings, the consummation of which will erelong be witnessed. The third candle is unity in freedom which will surely come to pass.  AB00143

I ask God to adorn your heads with the pearls of His favor, to ignite in your hearts the fire of the love of God, to free your tongues in utterance of eloquent words and excellent meanings and mysteries in the gathering of the pious, to make ye roses of the paradise of El-ABHA, angels of heaven, united in opinions, harmonious in thoughts and to manifest in your faces signs of holiness of the Kingdom among the people.  AB05944

In every gathering a group became united in universal peace  ABU1848

Therefore, gather all different thoughts together and unite diverse concerns into a single purpose and aim, that you may fulfill the duties of servitude at the Sacred Threshold.  AB03447

The foundation of all things is the unity of the people upon one Law. Observe ye the Muslim community and its weakness, and ponder its cause. This weakness hath come about solely due to the differences that have appeared therein, as thou canst see how each faction hath chosen its own path and walketh in its own way. And if someone should say "The paths to God are as numerous as the souls of creation" and that these paths have branched from the Most Great Path - even granting this claim, surely if one walketh upon the Most Great and Supreme Path it would be best and ever shall be, and nearest to righteousness. There are countless utterances regarding these matters, but in view of the sorrows that have descended, We have confined Ourselves to this much.   BH02381

I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to assemble them that love Thee around the Law that streameth from the good-pleasure of Thy will   BH08838

Unity and concord are beloved in the sight of the Lord of creation. Gather ye together in God's Law and be ye not of them that differ.  BH03264

May these differing views, God willing, come under the shade of one word.   BH06218

The friends must certainly be united themselves in order to unite others.   AB01951

The Shining Reality which is the Spirit of the world today is One and not many.   ABU3008

all attracted to the Beloved of the horizons and are confirmed in unity and accord   AB11654

Though outwardly scattered, they are inwardly united and in the utmost joy and delight  AB03266

You have no contending thoughts and seek no divergent opinions. You are united and in agreement   AB06059

Ye have striven to keep the Word whole and one. Ye have passed through the portals of mercy.   AB04432

through this firmness Baha'i unity will be established and different thoughts will be gathered at one point.  AB03629

"These few days will pass away, but their import shall be remembered by God's friends in all ages and in all lands."  ABU2297

fellowship and love, all enter beneath the shade of the Word of Unity and plunge into the sea of oneness and uniqueness  AB00667

The friends of East and West are associating with each other in perfect unity spiritually and communing in their hearts.   AB00516

Your letter has arrived on a single page, thus demonstrating your unity, your orientation, and your agreement in the Cause of God   BH08969

The need of a collective center by which these differences may be counterbalanced and the people of the world be unified is obvious.  ABU0006

thereby may all come together, with tranquil souls and well-assured hearts, beneath the shade of the pavilion of the oneness of humanity  ABU3708

They must become united and agreed... in concord and harmony, in unity of identity, unity of quality, unity of opinion and unity of thought  AB03305

"The dispersed ones will return to the Center of Gathering and the birds will return from the meadows of the world unto the Nest of Harmony."   AB03061

the power of the Covenant may remove this discord, for today no power can remove discord except the power of the Covenant of the Blessed Beauty  AB03100

"Let the meeting be spiritual and productive of unity and harmony, so that when you leave the meeting you may feel much better than when you entered it."  ABU2097

It is most clear and manifest that national affairs will never revolve around their proper axis until the whole people have received instruction, and public thought has been directed to a single end.  ABU3525

The highest wish of them that are filled with the Divine Spirit is unity and harmony amid the friends and spiritual connection among the hearts of the believers  AB02575

For the sincere monotheists, pure in faith, must have a unifying center, a single unifying word, a mighty fortress, an impregnable shelter, a lofty refuge, a strong wall, and a safe haven. When they take refuge in it and hasten to it, they are protected from the overwhelming calamity, the widespread attack, the great upheaval, and the mighty blow.  AB01030

Praise be to God that you are a united group of believers. I hope you will remain so firm and steadfast in faith and covenant that you may withstand thousands of hostile forces.  AB11374

Therefore all the friends of God must refer to a single word so that all may be established under the shade of the word of unity, and that word is the statement of this servant.   AB01879

Praise be to God that the hearts of all members of this gathering are united with each other, and all have one intention and purpose. No signs of differing thoughts exist among them.   ABU0420

This day is the day of unity and this time is the time of harmony. Unity and harmony will lay low the people of malice, and love and fellowship will banish estrangement from the face of the earth.  AB07804

The utmost effort must be exerted so that every soul who comes from the Western regions to the East experiences the utmost joy and happiness and becomes grateful and pleased with the divine friends.  AB11350

His days are numbered and ere long he shall return to the holy threshold of the Lord of all existence. He has had and has no purpose save to preserve the unity of God's Cause and the oneness of God's loved ones.   AB00180

All is to bring love to your hearts. For this purpose you must prove the means of unity to the inhabitants of the earth. This is His hope for you. If among yourselves there is no love, no unity, how can this become possible?   ABU2182

One must be very careful lest in this Dispensation, as in the Dispensation of the Qur'an, certain souls use such means and vain imaginings to create a breach in God's mighty stronghold and cause division in the sacred community.  AB00765

Do not allow difference of opinion, or diversity of thought to separate you from your fellow-men, or to be the cause of dispute, hatred and strife in your hearts. Rather, search diligently for the truth and make all men your friends.  ABU0491

At present, praise be unto God, those sons and daughters of the kingdom have like unto blessed trees strengthened their roots are unaffected by the blowing of violent winds and like unto an edifice rest on solid and rocky foundation.   AB01375

The believers of America now must endeavor that capacity and ability may be gained in America, because the most important thing is ability and capacity. If there should be no capacity nor ability the abundance and bounties have no effect.  ABU1019

The world is illumined through love and fellowship, and laid waste through hatred and enmity. O people of Baha! Hearken unto the call of the One True Counselor and strive that the light of unity may illumine the world and adorn its horizons.   BH06013


The news of the unity, harmony and oneness of the friends and their intense endeavor to acquire spiritual and material perfections was a great cause of joy and delight. This news was in the nature of glad-tidings, for it is proof of firmness in the Covenant and Testament.  AB10601

Well said. Europe has progressed in this way because their work is not scattered. For instance, in watchmaking, one person makes only the hands, another polishes, another applies paint, and thus they have achieved perfection. Each component of the watch is made by a different person.   ABU1306

They must become united and agreed. They are all the drops of one river, the waves of one sea, the breezes of one garden, the streams flowing from one fountain, the birds wafting toward one apex, the hyacinths adorning one Park, intoxicated with one wine and their hearts ravished with one melody.  AB08450

The bait they have placed in this trap is the commonplace unity and the oneness that occurs to the minds of the masses, which remains as an old inheritance from ancient nations - despite the fact that in all divine tablets and scriptures, the explanation of unity exists with the most wonderful meanings.   AB01496

"The Kingdom of God is like a tailor, and nations and sects are like pieces of cloth or materials; each nation or sect is a special material and now the real tailor is relating or connecting these materials to each other. We hope that before long there will be made a Divine robe out of these nations or materials."  ABU1706

Today the greatest need of the world of humanity is discontinuance of the existing misunderstandings among nations. This can be accomplished through the unity of language. Unless the unity of languages is realized, the Most Great Peace and the oneness of the human world cannot be effectively organized and established.   ABU1584

Consequently it is most necessary to bring about such a representative gathering that it may strive with might and main to lay the foundation of the oneness of the world of humanity, to relinquish traditions and dogmas and promulgate the fundamental principles and cardinal doctrines of the great religions of the world.   ABU0839


Its sweet contents imparted the utmost of rejoicing, for it contained the good news of the unity and harmony of the believers of God, their association and fellowship in the congregations of the elect, their enkindlement with the Fire of the Love of God, their advancement toward the Kingdom of God and their firmness in the Divine Covenant and Testament.  AB06281

The Sun of Truth, that bright Light of the kingdom on high has shone so that we might achieve unity of belief and opinions, oneness of word and deed, singleness of purpose in all circumstances and conditions. Therefore the friends should fix their sights on this underlying oneness of belief, this essential unity in the teachings instead of pursuing their diversity of opinions.   AB01018

And truly the fruit of the appearance and manifestation of the signs of unity is fellowship and friendship and love and oneness between the friends. If this is not achieved, the cycle yields no result and the lights of truth do not shine upon the horizons, the lamp of sanctification does not ignite and the veils of vain imaginings do not burn away. The morn of guidance spreads its lights upon the horizons only when unity of hearts is achieved.   AB01397


The unity of the friends is very important, and thankfully, the friends in America have achieved unity among themselves. The most important thing is unity. It is good if all the people of the world become one in faith and religion, but it is very important that you should become united among each other - which you have done in America. You must become more and more united so that nothing whatever will separate you, because the Cause is very great, and needs great power and great strength.   ABU1190


Today, the greatest of all things are love, fellowship, unity, harmony, detachment, freedom, sanctification, purity, sacrifice, and the joy of God's loved ones. If perfect fellowship and pure love are not achieved, all these efforts and hardships will be wasted, and all will ultimately suffer evident loss. The purpose of the manifestation of Truth and the rising of the Sun of Reality is the triumph of the light of God's love, so that the darkness of discord and dissension may vanish from the horizons and spiritual unity may appear. All the friends are as one soul, and all names and attributes are expressions of one person.   AB00080

It is incumbent upon all the peoples of the world to reconcile their differences, and, with perfect unity and peace, abide beneath the shadow of the Tree of His care and loving-kindness.   BH10163

You are a small army and very few in number in comparison to those around you. If dissension is existing among you and your opinions are different, everyone of you wishing to fight with a special sort of arms, i.e. some with swords, some with rifles, some with spears and some with guns, what will be the result? Defeat! And you will never see victory. But if you will unite together with one heart, one mind, one opinion, and one word, you will be able to fight all the armies of the world, and stand firmly before them.   ABU0696
