these different colors may merge into one color   AB00388

The diversity in the human family should be the cause of love and harmony, as it is in music where many different notes blend together in the making of a perfect chord.  ABU0491

If the body of man merely consisted of eyes, or head, or ears, it would have no beauty. The oneness of the spirit has given such a unity to these organs that the differences are as ornaments for the body. Likewise in this world of existence there must appear or manifest a collective aspect like unto the spirit (in man) with a power to dominate the different elements of the body of humanity.  ABU1085


See that in minerals, colors do not cause difference. In plants, the colors of multicolored flowers do not cause difference but rather are the cause of garden's adornment, for a single color has no ornament.  ABU0308

praise be to God, the rose garden of the West, in a short space of time, has assumed most delightful freshness. Most magnificent flowers have become apparent therein. Variegated flowers can be seen there. White flowers have grown in it; colored flowers have grown in it; red flowers can be seen in it; and yellow flowers can be seen in it, and all of these together are in the utmost of freshness and verdure, and each lends a charm and harmony to the others. Each one is a cause of adornment to the others. ABU1008


Close your eyes to racial differences, and welcome all with the light of oneness.  BH11361

these divine teachings are accompanied by a mysterious power and unmistakable confirmation, one after another - this power and confirmation being specific to the Religion of God and the Word of God. It transforms hearts, causes the improvement of the character of all, and brings about unity among peoples and parties of every land and region. It unifies diverse groups in such a way that they give their lives for one another, and raises them to such heights that their abasement is transformed into eternal glory and their effects remain permanent and lasting in all divine worlds, even in the world of dust.  ABU1601

this party now associates with all the world's parties in utmost love and fellowship  BH02242

Therefore East and West are intimate confidants, singing the same melody in harmony.  AB04122

O people of the world! Ye are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch.  ABU1754

Glory be to Him who hath brought the East and West under the shadow of the Blessed Tree  AB10786

The doors of Colleges and Universities must be wide open to the adherents of all religions and the members of all nationalities - so that these different people from widely-scattered countries may meet and associate with each other in those educational institutions, learn each others' customs and habits, interchange their ideas and discard their purposeless prejudices. In this way these young men and women will grow up with the ideas of World patriotism. ABU1512

"O people of the world! Ye are all the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch."   AB04723

Close your eyes to outward differences and look upon each other with the eye of universal oneness.  ABU0817

His Holiness Baha'u'llah has opened a great Door of interdependence of all nations before the faces  ABU1561

Originally these various nations belonged to one family...may they again return to their primal unity.  ABU2544

constitute the five continents as one continent; suffer the various races of men to become as one race   AB05484

"In reality we are all one nation:- England, France, Germany, Persia, America, they are all one country."  ABU2261

He broke the chains of religious prejudice, racial bigotry, patriotic fanaticism, and political animosity, and compared the world of humanity to a tree and all peoples to its branches, leaves, blossoms, and fruits.  AB00242


There are two kinds of differences: one kind is essential and innate differences, which do not prevent the manifestation of general unity and fellowship, but rather support it - like the different colors and types of flowers in a garden that contribute to its increased beauty and adornment, or like the different members of the human body which all assist one another and cause the appearance and manifestation of each other's perfections. When all come under the influence of one spiritual force, the differences between members and limbs have no effect and an honored form takes shape. The other kind consists of accidental differences which, due to lack of education, become the source of ignorance and cruelty, and the cause of oppression, enmity, hatred and warfare between the nations of the world. This kind of difference must be eliminated so that through spiritual power the different parties and nations may come under the shadow of one Word.  ABU2135

the Oneness of the entire human race, composed of all the diverse, antagonistic and distinct ethnic groups prevails   AB06664

they would witness all differing things, contrasting forms, and divergent views united as the letters of one blessed word  BH04934

until no prejudice remains between religions, denominations and races, and all may hold fast together to the cord of God   AB04957

their different colors, compositions, forms, shapes, tastes and fragrances cause the adornment and splendor of one another   AB00889

Baha'u'llah addresses all peoples, religions and faiths [saying]: "Ye are all the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch."   AB01977

they have called the church "bay'ah" in the terminology of the holy books, meaning a place for gathering of different peoples and races  ABU3281

Therefore wherever we see the lights of peace and welfare we must worship and welcome them, even if they come from any region or language.  ABU2554

The teachings of Baha'u'llah so penetrated the veins and nerves of humanity that it created unity between different tribes and divergent peoples.  ABU1744

"Your members may be compared to beams of different metals and you are trying to unite them as you would tie these fingers together with a string."  ABU3046

"We all appreciate your blessed visit and we believe what you said is the truth. But we are sorry we cannot include religion in our organization. Our members are composed of all kinds of religions and sects - the Protestant, Catholic, Jew, etc; naturally everyone prefers his own belief and will protest if any religion besides his own is favored." To this 'Abdu'l-Baha said, "Your members may be compared to beams of different metals and you are trying to unite them as you would tie these fingers together with a string." Here 'Abdu'l-Baha brought His own five fingers close together to illustrate His point. "See, no matter how you tie them, still they shall remain separate. But the only way to make these metals into one alloy, is to put them into a crucible and apply intense heat to melt them all. For our melting-pot, we use the fire of the love of God."  AB04289

He has gathered all peoples under the Word of God, and day by day followers of all religions are entering beneath this tent, becoming united and in agreement.  AB06826

The loved ones of God are as one soul, though they appear to be many, for all hold fast to the sure handle and are turned unto Him, turning away from all else.  BH00943

No, no one will give up his affiliation with his own religion, but the point is made they will hold more tenaciously to the fundamental of their own religion.   ABU0365

God and His servants are also pleased with those souls who are serving under a different flag and in a different camp to actualize these principles of humanity.  ABU2627

the teachings of Baha'u'llah have become the cause of fellowship between all religions and sects in the East, and also the cause of unity between different races  AB12204

Observe how the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty have connected East and West - the children of Khurasan are contributing to the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar of Chicago.  AB02542

The friends - Turkish, Tajik, Persian and American, Muslim, Jewish, Zoroastrian and Christian - all pass before the eye of heart and soul in waves at every moment.  AB04732

There are many collective forces in the world of existence which bring together the scattered, which unite different ideals and give uniformity to diverse customs.  ABU0470

This world will become one family. There will remain no racial distinction such as French, English, American, German, Arab, Turk, Persian. They will become all one   ABU1777

In this world the people are not of one kind. Their comprehension differs; their thought varies; their understanding is not the same and their capacity also differs. Therefore because of this difference, friendship and unity are difficult; although the improvement and happiness of the human world depend upon concord and harmony. For this reason a collective power is needed to over-shadow these conditions; and that collective power must be very mighty, that it may dominate the differences and remove every misunderstanding.... As the spirit of man unites and harmonizes the different organs of the body, so the Word of God shall unite the differ nations of the world.  ABU1085


And today we see diverse groups from different countries and of various nationalities have found sincere love and true unity within the refuge of His laws and teachings   ABU2578

Never say this one is English, that one German, this French, that Italian - do not utter these distinctions. You are all servants and handmaids of God, peace be upon you.  ABU0318


God, glorified and exalted be He, has willed to gather multiplicities into unity and cast into hearts the word of love, so that souls may harmonize and hearts become intimate   AB02021


These essential differences are the source of the splendor of the garden of humanity, not an obstacle to the manifestation of unity and fellowship among nations and religions   ABU2988

The Kingdom is like a garden. The flowers differ in color and perfume, yet they receive growth, beauty, and bounty from the one God and are developed by the same Divine Breeze.  ABU2267

Through divine power and heavenly bounties and merciful confirmations these two seas of East and West may become one, and these two branches may be grafted to become a single branch  AB09660





to prepare them to hearken unto that which conduces to the sanctifying and purifying of the people of the world from strife and discord resulting from differences in religions or sects  BH11203

The power of the Abha Kingdom has established connection - East has embraced West, distant regions have drawn near, the face of the earth has taken on the character of a single gathering.  AB01510

In the imperial Court of the Almighty there is no diversification, no class hatred, no denominational bigotries, [no] racial distinctions, no spiritual lepers and no infernal prejudices.   ABU1771

However, if all parties would set aside their various aims and turn to unity and agreement, divine confirmations and heavenly assistance would surely manifest with utmost glory and beauty.  AB02102

I hope that ye may cause that downtrodden race to become glorious, and to be joined with the white race, to serve the world of man with the utmost sincerity, faithfulness, love, and purity.  AB10765

God has created the world as one--the boundaries are marked out by man. God has not divided the lands. Each man has his house and meadow; horses and dogs do not divide the fields into shares.   ABU1651

one from the East of Iran and another from the West of America, one from the North of Europe and another from the South of Africa - finding fellowship in one gathering and meeting in one assembly   AB04852

making them as one sea and one paradise and as stars in a single firmament, that all may move and circle like luminous orbs in this infinite space and through attractive forces preserve one another  AB08243

It is good that this church is open to everyone, and is the cause of fellowship among every sect and creed, inasmuch as whatever is universal is of God, and that which is particular is of humanity.  ABU3729

Never let the friends be separated from other people and nations. They must strive for unity and harmony, through good deeds and morals. They must kind to all, tolerant with all and good in conduct.  ABU0938

Muslim, Jew, Zoroastrian, Christian, Brahmin and Buddhist have mixed together in utmost love and harmony to such an extent that they have become as one race. These names have been completely removed.   AB01574

All the infinite beings exist by this law of mutual action and helpfulness. Should this law of joint interchange of forces be removed from the arena of life, the existence would be entirely destroyed.  AB00362

"There will be drawn absolutely no line of demarcation. Its charities will be dispensed irrespective of colour and race. Its gates will be flung wide to mankind; prejudices toward none, love for all."  ABU2301

when the people of different religions, races and nations were reviling each other, He addressed the people of the world saying, 'O people! Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch.'   ABU2557

that haply the dissensions that divide it may, through the power of the Most Great Name, be blotted out from its face, and all mankind become the upholders of one Order, and the inhabitants of one City.   BH06328

If the circle of the activities of Green-Acre is so expanded as to have every year, the leaders of every religion and thought, so that they may associate with each other with perfect love and amity - it will be very good.  ABU0925

Such passion and fervor of love, such tumult of attraction, such jubilation of melody and song, that the atoms of all things begin to dance with delight and the reality of beings becomes stirred into motion.  AB05681

When we enter a rose-garden we behold how beautiful is the display of variegated flowers. The difference of colour is the adornment of the rose-garden. Were it of one colour it would not have such splendour.   AB02243

The organization of the meeting representative of the different denominations in New York, at which all religions and sects had affiliated together in the utmost love and harmony was conducive to extreme joy.   AB01566

"The world of humanity consists of two parts: male and female. Each is the complement of the other. Therefore, if one is defective, the other will necessarily be incomplete, and perfection cannot be attained."  ABU0098

If the friends achieve oneness and become entirely detached from estrangement, and embrace one another, and follow the way and conduct of 'Abdu'l-Baha, in a short time that region will become fragrant with musk.  AB01621

Praise be to God that the favored community is adorned with the crown of recognition and the ornament of unity, and in the nights and days utters and remembers the blessed words "There is none other God but God."  BH01032

The brightness of the fire of your love will no doubt fuse and unify the contending peoples and kindreds of the earth, whilst the fierceness of the flame of enmity and hatred cannot but result in strife and ruin.  BH00238

that He may make these scattered birds in the wilderness of separation intimate companions in the meadow of reality, and cause these gazelles of the plain of oneness to roam together in the garden of spirituality  AB02284

Observe that birds make no distinction between colors and difference of hue does not prevent affection and love. Similarly other animals give no importance to color, rather they consider the species as important.   AB02583

As in the vegetable world the best results are obtained when one kind of fruit is grafted on another, so in the human family, the best and strongest children are obtained by intermarriage between different races.   ABU3408

Whether we live in the East or in the West, the invisible Power of BAHA'O'LLAH is unifying our scattered forces and training us for the service of His Kingdom--the kingdom of universal love and inter-racial amity.   ABU1803

The love which welds together the members of various nations; divergent races and different religions, and causes them to associate with each other with love and amity, that love is divine and celestial in origin   ABU0631

The East and the West should unite to give to each other what is lacking in each. This exchange of gifts would form a true civilization, where spiritual ideals would be translated into action in the material world.   ABU3405

Besides this physical world the Easterner and the Westerner have been on good terms in the spiritual realm, and when they came from the world of the spirits to the physical world, fellowship becometh apparent again.   AB05930

Then make them, O my God, the waves of the sea of Your oneness and the flowers of the garden of Your unity...until I see them like a solid structure supporting one another and sacrificing their lives for one another.  AB00846

"We have made unity the support for the pavilions of My Cause and the cord for the tabernacle of My glory. Hold fast unto it, O My servants, then act according to that which God hath revealed in His wondrous Tablet."   BH02646

Be ye united and in accord in the Cause of God. The strong must assist the weak with the utmost kindliness and forbearance, that all may act according to the goodly deeds which have been revealed in the divine Tablets   BH02948

"A bright century dawns, the ultimate result will be Unity. The Christian may inquire from the Jew as to the foundation of Judaism,-of the Zoroastrian concerning the moralization of man. This is idealism and progress."  ABU0961

The world of humanity is like unto a rose garden and the various races are like unto different colored flowers which make the garden more attractive and beautiful. In the animal kingdom also there are different colors.  ABU0308

That which hath been revealed in the Tablets of loving counsel regarding unity and other matters hath been and will continue to be intended for all created things, both those who are round about Me and those in all lands.  BH02386

Unity and concord are beloved today and have ever been. Associate with all the peoples of the world with the utmost spirit, fragrance, dignity and composure, that your goodly character may spread its fragrance among them.  BH00349

I beseech the True One, glorified and exalted is He, to keep you forever gathered beneath the shade of the Tree of Oneness in complete spiritual divine fellowship, as though you were one spirit dwelling in multiple bodies   AB05397

Do not say, he is an Italian, or a Frenchman, or an American, or an Englishman, remember only that he is a son of God, a servant of the Most High, a man! All are men! Forget nationalities; all are equal in the sight of God!  ABU0281

Strive ye with heart and soul that the lights of the unity of the human world and universal love may illumine that clime, that all souls may mingle with one another and divine unity may be manifested in the world of humanity.  AB08277

The Theosophists are very dear to me, for they have abandoned all prejudice. They do not abide in the confines of dogma, but are seeking truth in a spirit of freedom. All the religions of the world are submerged in prejudice.   ABU0302

These scattered sheep will gather under the shade of the divine Shepherd's training, so that in the meadow of bounty and beneficence they may find repose of heart and soul and drink from the eternal spring of everlasting life.   ABU2336

Taking the material ocean as an illustration, 'Abdu'l-Baha said, The atoms composing an ocean are, in appearance the ocean, but the identity of the atoms remains. So it is with our individuality in the ocean of life, it remains.   ABU3516

Unite all beneath the shade of Your bounty and make all in agreement, so that all may become rays of one sun, waves of one sea, fruits of one tree, drink from one fountain, be stirred by one breeze, and derive light from one source.  AB06469

This connection and attachment and unity and harmony are among the special characteristics of this Most Great Cycle, wherein the Sun of Truth from the Dayspring of Oneness hath shed the lights of unity upon the temples of detachment   AB06937

Diversity is really harmony. If our food were to be all of one kind it would become monotonous. So in many ways the existence of different degrees is in reality the perfection of harmony and each may attain perfection in its sphere.   ABU3387

when they are variegated, then it is perfectly charming; in short, all the personalities which we possess are admirable, and we hope that the difference of personalities may be the source of attraction which lends charm to the garden.  ABU0388

It is the Holy Spirit of God which insures the safety of humanity, for human thoughts differ, human susceptibilities differ. You cannot make the susceptibilities of all humanity one except through the common channel of the Holy Spirit.   ABU3406

Baha Ullah taught the perfect equality of the sexes, essential difference in sphere, in point of view and service to their joint humanity, but each like two pillars supporting the arch of life, the necessary complement one of the other.  ABU2811

The world of humanity is like unto a rose garden and the various races, tongues and people are like unto contrasting flowers. The diversity of colors in a rose-garden adds to the charm and beauty of the scene as variety enhances unity.   ABU0058

The believers of God are the waves of one Sea, the drops of one River, the signs of one Kingdom, the standards of one Regiment, the lights of one Orb, the Armies of one General, the stars of one Heaven and are addressed by one Covenant.   AB00975

What unity and connection is this, and what harmony and attraction! Glory be to Him Who has united the hearts and gathered the souls beneath His unfurled banner and made them signs of unity speaking of the favors of the Lord of existence   AB02267

A Baha'i is at the same time a Christian a Jew, a Zoroastrian and a Mohamadan. The Baha'i Cause is like unto a tree on the branches of which you will find all manner of fruits; it is the ultimate goal to which all the paths are converging.   ABU0734

Soon will He raise you up in truth - verily He is the Almighty, the All-Glorious. Through unity the face of the Cause becomes illumined and the faces of those who have disbelieved in God, the Lord of the Day of Mutual Calling, are darkened.   BH02703

Let the East embrace the West, and the beloved of the Orient become companion to the darling of the Occident, so that diverse peoples and varied nations and conflicting communities and contending tribes may become loving toward one another.   AB05556

The composite beauty of humanity will be witnessed in their unity and blending. How glorious the spectacle of real unity among mankind! How conducive to peace, confidence and happiness if races and nations were united in fellowship and accord!   ABU0701

Today the Balance speaks saying I am verily the All-Knowing Discerner. The true balance has been and ever shall be the love of God. Blessed are they who are illumined by the light of His Cause and enkindled with the fire of the Divine Lote Tree.  BH00028

They must reform their character and strive for the general interests and relationships of humanity, be detached from ancient prejudices, obsolete thoughts and national biases, and consider all humans as God's sheep and God as the kind Shepherd.  AB00827

In order to gain freedom of their limbs and the suppleness of their bodies, they must throw away these chains of superstitions and dogmas and fraternize cheerfully and joyfully with all the nations of the earth, irrespective of religion and race.  ABU2359

"My hope is that all the handmaids of God in that region will unite like unto the waves of one unending sea; for although blown about as the wind listeth, these are separate in themselves, yet in truth are they all at one with the boundless deep."  AB01189

God maketh no distinction between the white and the black. If the hearts are pure both are acceptable unto Him. God is no respecter of persons on account of either color or race. All colors are acceptable unto Him, be they white, black, or yellow.  AB11278

But each was spoken to according to their capacity and worthiness: some about religious matters, some about political matters, some about social organization, some about public rights, some about scientific matters, and some about spiritual matters.  AB00340

By God's life! We love to see each one of you sanctified from rancor and hatred, and adorned with love and fidelity. We beseech God to send down upon you, from the heaven of grace and bounty, a mercy from His presence and a blessing from His own Self.  BH00715

the Manifestation of Truth is for love, unity, oneness, agreement, sincerity and fairness...Surely the friends of God will not be content that while I hope for affection and unity, I see signs of trouble and discord. I become very saddened and grieved.  AB12145

The friends of Truth must speak such words as will immediately make beings receptive, and adorn themselves with goodly deeds, pleasing character, and praiseworthy conduct which are the cause and means of the world's tranquility and the order of nations.   BH00400

The slaves of vain imaginings deemed themselves unitarians, and the worshippers of their own conjectures counted themselves as detached. Yet when the sun of trial shone forth from the horizon of the All-Merciful's purpose, all were found in manifest loss.  BH08144

When he says, "Ye are all the leaves of one branch," he infers the inherent differences between men, differences like unto the leaves. Nature manifests in various forms, but the basic element is the same. There is unity of essence and variety of expression.   ABU1199

This is the century of the oneness of the world of humanity and of the decline and abrogation of the superstitions of past ages. Every learned person is persuaded that this is the century for oneness and unity and the time for fanciful prejudices to fade away.  ABU0110

Consider that if those prejudices and superstitions existed among us, would it be possible for these different souls from various religions and distant lands to find such fellowship and harmony with each other, and to show such love and kindness to one another?  ABU1158

For instance, some difference of opinion arises between two believers in God. Each expects the Lord to support his view of the question...Discord and disagreement are impossible among those who adhere to the Manifestation and sever themselves from human opinion.  ABU2646

Verily, thou art from the West and we are from the East, the distance between is great. Nevertheless, it is as if we were from one native land, one city, one house and one household. The love of God gathered us all under the shade of one tent, beneath one banner.  AB08994

This is why great gatherings are formed where Muslims, Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians and occasionally Buddhists, and different races - Turks, Arabs, Persians, Kurds, English, French, Americans - associate with each other like brothers with passion and enthusiasm  AB00866

Observe the human body, its limbs, its members, the eye, the ear, the organs of smell, of taste, the hands, the fingernails. Notwithstanding the differences among all these parts, each one within the limitations of its own being participateth in a coherent whole.  AB00398

This is one of the wonders of this age, that an oriental and an occidental can meet each other on a common ground. Although there exists among them no racial, no patriotic, or political relations, yet they love each other as though they belonged to the same race.   ABU2820

if it receives divine assistance and heavenly power, seeks celestial confirmation and aid, the various divided parties and different opposing souls will be gathered through spiritual power and unite and agree upon that which is the cause of eternal life and glory.   ABU0854

The word of truth is current on the tongues of all people, yet all are heedless of it. They utter a word with their lips, but are oblivious of its meaning. They worship the name, not the Named One. They cling to the hem of the name but mix not with Him Who is named.  AB08961

The Cause that will render such a service is the recognization of the Common spiritual basis of all the religions; it will be a synthetic Cause - the combination of the moral and spiritual laws of all the religions into a Whole through the power of the Holy Spirit.   ABU0673

The maid-servants of the Merciful should love each other with heart and soul; for though there be many bodies, the spirit of faith is one and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit is universal. There is one Light but many lamps; there is one Wine but the glasses differ.   AB03752

What evil is there when the people of the world learn to love and care for one another as this assemblage does? This gathering is indeed a brilliant example of the mighty institutions and momentous movement of 'Abbas Effendi which in the future will unite the world.   ABU2319

How much more useful it would be if the essential doctrines of Christianity were taken up and discussed, especially those principles which would harmonize the different scattered forces, welding them together - thus they may be pressed into intimate and permanent union.  ABU1549

Paris is the universal center of culture and learning, of science and the arts. She must also be the center of spirituality. There are all sorts of fruits; some can only ripen in a cold climate; others need the warmth and others yet the tropical sun. So it is with Paris.  ABU2201

Consider the influence of the Word of God that although men of totally different temperament, religion, culture and ideas live in the Pilgrims Home never do we hear even a faint whisper of ill-feeling against each other. They are welded together by the alchemy of Truth.   ABU1941

Verily, thou art from the West and we are from the East, and the distance between is great. Nevertheless, it is as if we were from one native land, one city, one house and one household. The love of God hath gathered us all under the shade of one tent, beneath one banner.  AB08994

Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, Hindus, Buddhists and Persians all consort together with perfect love and fellowship, as if for a thousand years they had belonged to the same kindred and family; indeed, as if they were father and son, mother and daughter, sister and brother.   AB00091

Put all your beliefs into harmony with science; there can be no opposition, for truth is one. When religion, shorn of its superstitions, traditions, and unintelligent dogmas, shows its conformity with science, then will there be a great unifying, cleansing force in the world.   ABU0493

May the Zoroastrian friends, through truth-worship, friendship and honesty, adorn the gathering of the world, attain eternal life, and surpassing their ancient glory, beautify the ways of humanity and become the cause of unity and oneness between all, familiar and stranger alike.  AB02787

Although from a physical standpoint we are different, each one of us having our own individual bodies, yet we may become united as far as the spiritual side of our lives is concerned. Although we may be as many candles, as many lamps, yet the same light may shine from all of us.   ABU0116

The divine religions are collective centers in which diverse standpoints may meet, agree and unify. They accomplish oneness of native lands, races and policies. For instance, Christ united various nations, brought peace to warring peoples and established the oneness of humankind.  ABU0041

they who regard the world as one country and who move amongst all with spirit and fragrance. The armor of these souls hath ever been and shall ever be the fear of God. They are adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness and are characterized by truthfulness, purity and fidelity.  BH02081

All things have appeared from a single word, yet how vastly different are their effects, fruits, colors, tastes, motions and stillness. The Creator Who, from a single word sanctified above all colors and differences, brought forth these diverse things from nothingness into being.   BH00389

each might assemble at the divine table of bounty and favor, drink from one spring, and find rest in the shade of one tree. This is the greatest gift. This is the supreme glory. This is the means of attaining divine grace. This is the way to enter the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.   ABU1206

All the inhabitants of earth are recipients of the bounty of the one phenomenal sun, and none are preferred above others; so, likewise, all receive the heavenly bestowals of the Word of God; none are specialized as favorites; all are under its protection and universal effulgence.   ABU0733

O Pure One of God, heal the scattered hearts and unite the thoughts of the helpless ones. Be a kind shepherd to the dispersed flock and a blessed gatherer of scattered birds. Illumine the hearts with the light of unity and make souls alive and stirred by the breaths of fellowship.   AB03049

"If the Zionists will mingle with the other races and live in unity with them, they will succeed. If not, they will meet certain resistance...The Zionists should make it clear that their principle is to elevate all the people here and to develop the country for all its inhabitants."   ABU0612

In Iran there exist multiple nations--Muslim, Christian, Jewish, and Zoroastrian--and various denominations. Through the power of Baha'u'llah's teachings, such harmony and love have been established among these nations and peoples that they now associate with one another like brothers.  AB00637

White doves and purple doves exist, but both kinds are doves. Baha'u'llah once compared the coloured people to the black pupil of the eye surrounded by the white. In this black pupil you see the reflection of that which is before it, and through it the light of the Spirit shines forth.  ABU2115

If you go to Persia where the friends of Abha are many, you will at once realize the unifying force of God's work. They are doing their utmost to strengthen this bond of amity. There, people of different nationalities gather in one meeting and chant the divine tablets with one accord.   ABU1808


Unity is one thing, uniformity is another. Unity is not accomplished by suppression. Unity comes by submission of man's will to the will of God. The unity which is the result of inner conviction is a permanent state; that uniformity which is the result of outward pressure is temporary.  ABU0064

When we glance at phenomena, whether major or minor, we find they are interdependent and connected by a bond, and this bond is peace. Were there no such connection among phenomena -- in other words, were there no peace among them -- the world of existence could not possess immortality.  ABU0013

Your letter conveyed glad tidings of the unity and love among the friends of God and service to the oneness of the human world. My hope is that the friends may become the cause of establishing love and fellowship among all religions, and that all different races may embrace one another.  AB12315

When we look upon the ocean of existence, we see the handiwork of the divine sea. When we gaze upon the waves, we know they all belong to the sea. Though the waves be diverse, the sea is one. One sun shines upon all created things, and the light is one light, though creation be diverse.  ABU0085

For as much as hearts are like unto mirrors, when the light of the love of God is enkindled, brilliant rays will reflect and merciful phenomena become manifest and clear. Physical nearness or remoteness is of no importance; the essential fact is the spiritual affinity and ideal nearness.  AB02307

The earth is one unit, yet how many beings and separate parts it contains! The body of man is one unit, yet it has an infinite number of separate and individual parts that compose it--such as eyes, fingers, etc.; so, in like manner, spirit is one, but consisting of many differentiated parts.  ABU2772

Whensoever holy souls, drawing on the powers of heaven, shall arise with such qualities of the spirit, and march in unison, rank on rank, every one of those souls will be even as one thousand, and the surging waves of that mighty ocean will be even as the battalions of the Concourse on high.  AB00112

"Ye are all fruits of one tree," meaning you are all fruits and leaves of the tree of existence. Therefore although there are differences among you, these differences should not be the cause of conflict and strife, rather they should lead to the utmost connection and harmony with one another   AB00634

When you reach India you will meet with many believers from various castes, creeds and sections, speaking different tongues. They may not be able to speak with you in English nor may you understand their native tongues, but you will in no sense be a stranger. You will all be as one large family.  ABU0190

And if someone should say "The paths to God are as numerous as the souls of creation" and that these paths have branched from the Most Great Path - even granting this claim, surely if one walketh upon the Most Great and Supreme Path it would be best and ever shall be, and nearest to righteousness  BH02381

When all of a sudden there passed a donkey ladened with grapes. Each man sprang to his feet and with eager hands pointed out: "See uzum!" said the Turk. "See aneb!" said the Arab. "See angoor!" said the Persian. And the Greek said, "See staphylion!" Then they bought their grapes and were at peace.   ABU2409

Between these two races certain points of agreement and points of distinction exist which warrant just and mutual consideration. The points of contact are many.... In fact numerous points of partnership and agreement exist between the two races, whereas the one point of distinction is that of color.  AB09729

Each century has its momentous question - though there are countless issues, one issue takes on supreme importance. In the last century, the most important of issues was political freedom, and this aim spread. However, in this luminous century the greatest gift to the human world is universal peace.  AB01146

Today in Persia there are meetings and assemblages wherein souls who have become illumined by the teachings of Baha'u'llah -- representative Muslims, Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, Buddhists and of the various denominations of each -- mingle and conjoin in perfect fellowship and absolute agreement.  ABU0009

Though the friends may be distinguished from one another in form and custom, in character and spirit and reality they must be as one soul. They are drops of one ocean, fruits of one garden, lamps of one portico, brilliant stars of one horizon, ranks of one army, and the inebriated ones of one feast.  AB06810

Today in Persia, for instance, there are many people of various races and religions who have followed the exhortations of Baha'u'llah and are living together in love and fellowship without religious, patriotic or racial prejudices -- Muslims, Jews, Christians, Buddhists, Zoroastrians and many others.  ABU0788

Man must be a lover of the light, no matter from what dayspring it may appear. He must be a lover of the rose, no matter in what soil it may be growing. He must be a seeker of the truth, no matter from what source it come. Absolute verities, no matter in what book they be recorded, must be accepted.   ABU0149

'Abdu'l-Baha explains His statement about flowers of different colors, applying it to racial harmony: "these colors should not clash with each other but rather should blend, for this diversity of human colors is like the diversity found among flowers in a garden and is the cause of the garden's beauty."  AB12060

The purpose of bearing these successive afflictions and consecutive trials is that souls assured in God should walk together in perfect unity, such that all difference, duality and otherness might be effaced from their midst, save in those special limitations that have been sent down in the divine Books.  BH02157

The Americans may be protected in taking some measures against the Japanese.....But if they prohibit the buying of land it will create animosity. Yes, they should regulate it. Some laws should exist regulating immigration for instance, if a man goes to this country to profit, he should become an American.   ABU0972

The Christians and Mohamadans of today must look up centuries back to Abyssinia and learn at least from those true and pious souls the secret of toleration and brotherly association. While these Moslems were thriving in their exile, Mohamad migrated to Medina and the faith of Allah was spread far and wide.  ABU0312

Say: O friends! Be united and be in accord in the Cause of God. Unity conquers the realms of hearts through wisdom and utterance. Good is clearly distinguished from evil. Through the blessedness of the Most Great Name, hold fast unto that which is good, detached from all evil and from every lying clamourer.  BH02238

Though the radial lines extending from the center to the circumference of a circle are numerous, yet as they emanate from a single center, these lines converge at one point and are connected to a single center. If souls, like radial lines, are oriented toward the original center, there is unity within unity.  AB00506

so that the various denominations and the different religions may cast off the garment of blind imitation and put on the robe of truth, so that they may kindly grow together and refrain from prejudices which are based on ignorance, so that they may become the flowers of one garden and the waves of one ocean.  AB12532

"Between us there are no differences. We are at peace. We are seeking no ruthless wars. If you, who pretend to be our emperors, our Kings, our leaders - if you have any differences amongst yourselves, if you are at odds with each other and cannot come to an amicable understanding, what have we to do with it?"  ABU0132

In Persia many meetings are being held in which different religions are represented, Jewish, Christian, Mohammedan and Zoroastrian. There is harmony and friendship among them. They are at all times ready to sacrifice their lives for one another. They serve with heart and soul in the cause of international peace.   ABU0212

And praise be to God Who hath made marriage the treasury of prosperity and the dawning-place of success. Through it appeared His greatest outpouring and His most upright, perfect, and complete bounty, and He exalted its station to such a degree that He Himself performed the ceremony upon the throne of His bestowal.  BH11707

Difference in color is in itself a beauty. It is so in the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms. If all the flowers in a garden were white, it would not have perfect beauty. Variety is needed. In the human world too, the white, yellow, red, brown and black, when they associate together they contribute to beauty.   ABU1471

Hearts are connected to one another, and all souls are gladdened through the grace of the Blessed Beauty. From this gathering it is clear and evident what will occur in the future, and how fellowship, unity and oneness will be achieved among the different nations, religions, peoples and warring, conflicting tribes.  ABU0202

The religions differ--their beliefs vary. There are also differences between countries, and differences of kinds and species. Political differences exist, variation of interests is present everywhere, therefore, the happiness of the world of humanity is absent, and all the nations are living in obscurity and darkness.  ABU2078

Our countries are different and far from one another, and in the same way our national customs and habits are different, our languages, our opinions and thoughts are different; in every way we are very far from one another. But the influence of the word of God has gathered us, and we are here together in perfect love.   ABU1769

From the pairing of even the smallest particles in the world of being are the grace and bounty of God made manifest; and the higher the degree, the more momentous is the union. 'Glory be to Him Who hath created all the pairs, of such things as earth produceth, and out of men themselves, and of things beyond their ken.'  AB02596

I hope that all mention of "Muslim" and "Jewish" will completely disappear and all will achieve the designation of "Baha'i." There is no need for the terms "Muslim" and "Jewish" since both groups are true Baha'is. This title is the pride of all titles and this name and designation is the cause of glory for all humanity.  AB09927

When we consider the kingdoms of existence below man, we find no distinction or estimate of superiority and inferiority between male and female. Among the myriad organisms of the vegetable and animal kingdoms sex exists, but there is no differentiation whatever as to relative importance and value in the equation of life.   ABU0146

In Europe and America there is a meeting of the parliament. In this parliament there are men, each of them represents many men. A single man is like ten thousand men. lt seems in fact as if ten thousand or twenty thousand men are present in that meeting. His word is the word of all and what he accepts all of them accept.   ABU1011

The teacher should not consider himself as learned and others ignorant. Such a thought breedeth pride, and pride is not conducive to influence. The teacher should not see in himself any superiority; he should speak with the utmost kindliness, lowliness and humility, for such speech exerteth influence and educateth the souls.  AB00143

Consider this: if those prejudices and vain imaginings still existed in our midst, would it have been possible for such intimate fellowship to have been fostered among the various peoples gathered here -- who belong to foreign religions and hail from distant lands -- and for us to have shown such love and kindness to one another?  ABU3680

This remarkable Personage was able by these principles to establish a bond of unity among the differing sects and divergent people of Persia. Those who followed His teachings, no matter from what denomination or faction they came, were conjoined by the ties of love, until now they cooperate and live together in peace and agreement.  ABU0186

Observe in a garden that, although flowers of various colors blossoms, fragrances of different quality are emitted and fruits of distinct verities are born upon the trees, yet this difference is, in reality, a cause of unity, adornment and beauty. Differences do not exist therein. Nay, rather, the very difference is a point of unity.  AB06810

Praise be to God that in the Baha'i Cause there are no ignorant prejudices - the Baha'i knows neither racial prejudice, political prejudice, nor religious prejudice. From whatever center he observes the lights of justice shining forth, he is attracted to it, whether it be from the East or from the West, from the South or from the North  AB08659

Those who believe in God and are confident in His Word shall enter the Kingdom, and the essential oneness appears among them to such an extent that all become the drops of one ocean, the rays of one sun, the fishes of one sea, the trees of one garden, the birds of one orchard, the candles of one assembly and the stars of the same heaven  ABU1197

The All Mighty hath created all people from the same stock, all humanity belongs to the same grade or station: thou shouldst never see differences in the creation of God. One should treat all created things with humanity; one should associate and consort with all people with the utmost love and concord, which is born of the All Merciful.   AB03938

We were not born in the same country. We are different from a linguistic standpoint. From a racial standpoint we are different. Our customs and manners vary and our places of nativity are quite apart. Therefore material susceptibilities require that we should not be brought together, but spiritual susceptibilities have become triumphant.   ABU0629

In Persia today through the teachings of Baha'u'llah you will find people of various beliefs and denominations living together in the utmost peace and agreement. The former enmities and hatred have passed away, and they exercise the utmost love toward all mankind, for they realize and know that all are the creatures and servants of one God.  ABU0016

God createth not a single thing but He createth from itself what He willeth through His command, which quickeneth all things. God createth not a single entity but He createth from itself its counterpart, for God, the Lord of all worlds. And God createth not a pair but He createeth from itself a single entity, for God, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

The combination of diverse elements through spiritual force in the contingent world leads to the manifestation and emergence of divine perfections and attributes, and these essential differences are the source of splendor in the garden of humanity, not an impediment to the manifestation of unity and fellowship between peoples and religions.   ABU0795

What a bounty is this, and what a gift, that all points of the earth have become as a single point, and all regions have turned toward a single spot. The East has embraced the West, and the South and North have clasped hands in greeting. All have entered beneath the divine pavilion, and the Tree of Life has cast its shadow over all horizons.  AB04515

How wonderful it is that the blessed names of different peoples are included in one letter, for they have cast aside differences and sought unity, they have turned from estrangement to oneness. The stranger has become friend, the foreigner familiar, the distant near. Asia and America, Turk and Tajik, Europe and Africa have embraced one another  AB02133

Despite these successive and continuous hardships and tribulations, the discord among the friends has become such a great calamity that I cannot describe nor express it. When all these nations are opposed to us, we should at least unite in defense, lest these nations prevail and harm the friends, and rejoice in the discord among the loved ones.  AB08736

Hence the chief and cardinal characteristic of a Baha'i is to mingle and unite the opposite elements, through the power of spiritual chemistry into one harmonious compound. Spiritual chemists are therefore, the Baha'is, and if they wished to become competent they should acquire the practical knowledge and the laws of this most important science.  ABU0389

Unity in one station is unity in speech, and this is highly essential. Consider, for example, if two of God's loved ones were to enter a land and speak differently about a matter, this would cause dissension, and they themselves and others would be deprived of the blessing of unity which hath been revealed from the Pen of the Lord of all creation.   BH00472

Observe thou the consummate wisdom of God, that thou art from the cradle of India while we are dwellers of Iran and strangers in the land of Syria. What foundation of fellowship He hath laid, that in this distant clime I am engaged and delighted in remembrance of that yearning exile, while thou in that far-off realm art filled with intense longing.  AB08577

Convey my greetings and praise and my abundant longings to my loved ones in that city which hath become the City of the Covenant and the dwelling-place of the love of God... Verily, I love the beloved ones in that city with all my heart and soul, inasmuch as they cherish unity, harmony and concord, and stand firm in resisting the people of discord.  AB12784

There in these meetings you will often see Christian, Mohammedan, Jew, Zoroastrian and Buddhist speaking and discovering with each other as tho' they were the members of one family. All unite and agree, there is no quarrel nor strife nor bloodshed nor warfare - they have realized the fellowship and affinity are the greatest attainments of this world.  ABU0081

The Baha'i Cause is like unto a garden in which one finds all kinds of flowers. In this garden you will find the flowers seen in others; and beside, there are other rare flowers here that are not extant anywhere else. It includes the Teachings of other revelations and has revealed numerous, distinct principles adaptable to the requirements of this age  ABU2815

This feast belongs to the illustrious pilgrims of the Jewish descent. Through the favors of the Blessed Beauty, many diverse people have gathered in this assembly and partaken of this spiritual sustenance - Jewish, Christian or Muslim descendents, and friends from both the East and the West - each coming from a different locality arriving at this Land.  ABU1742

If you enter a garden, you will see yellow, white, blue, red flowers in profusion and beauty -- each radiant within itself and although different from the others, lending its own charm to them. Racial difference in the human kingdom is similar. If all the flowers in a garden were of the same color, the effect would be monotonous and wearying to the eye.  ABU0627

Now that the Persians and the Americans, the Americans and the Persians, the Europeans and the Persians and the Persians and the Europeans have began to give daughters and sons unto each other, I hope that the bond of affection and unity between the East and the west will be reinforced and spiritual communication may bring them into closer relationship!   ABU1448

Consider what the power of the Covenant has done! It was an impossibility for a Zoroastrian to unite with a Sid and a mulla with a Jew. And for these to assemble with a Christian was an absolute impossibility. But the power of the Covenant has even so gathered them that they are accounted as one spirit. Although the bodies are numerous, the spirit is one.  ABU2270

In Persia, among those who have harkened to the admonitions of Baha'o'llah, you will find Zoroastrian, Jew, Christian, Mohammedan, Buddhist, associating one with the other in perfect accord and good will, entertaining no ill thought or enmity, no rancor, no feeling of estrangement or alienation, but all living together in complete understanding and love.   ABU0035

Do you remember that night in Haifa when people of many lands and nationalities were present at dinner --Americans, Persians, Europeans, persian Turks in huge sheep-skin head-gears, and European and American ladies in their wonderful hats, made part of the same meeting, which was also attended by Qayim Maqam (Governor of Haifa) and the turbaned Turkish Judge?  ABU3188

Consider: We plant a seed. A complete and perfect tree appears from it, and from each seed of this tree another tree can be produced. Therefore, the part is expressive of the whole, for this seed was a part of the tree, but therein potentially was the whole tree. So each one of us may become expressive or representative of all the bounties of life to mankind.  ABU0399

We spoke about the inhabitants of Honolulu; that many nationalities are there represented and yet all are in great harmony...our purpose is this, that the divine unity and concord may become well established among all the nations, so that they may become as one spirit in different bodies; the drops of one ocean; the fruits of one tree and the rays of the same sun.  ABU0476

Bring together the old and new, and gather the descendants of Israel and Ishmael in one assembly that they may find Thy Name and receive Thy Message and seek Thy peace and tranquility. For they are drops of one ocean and rays of one sun, flowers of one garden and trees of one orchard, links of one chain and servants with rings in their ears belonging to one master.   AB02783

Truth will always be victorious; therefore it does not know defeat but the people of reality must exert great effort, and if the people of reality neglect to display this effort that is another matter. The people of reality must demonstrate their willingness in this direction. They must realize that the greatest reality of this age is the oneness of the human world.  ABU0089

God willing, may the servants who are adorned with the ornament of divine love manifest perfect unity and harmony, for if they attain unto this station, its effects will swiftly appear throughout all regions. By the life of God! Should a soul conduct himself with utmost humility in His path, he will assuredly attain, both outwardly and inwardly, the highest station.   BH00252

diverse people from the East, West, North, South, Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Zoroastrian, all embraced each other with the utmost spirituality and fraternity, considering each another as members of the same family. They dealt with each with the utmost equity, to the point that when someone enters their gathering, they see no difference whatsoever between all assembled.   ABU0994

Look at the world of being and existence, whose foundation rests upon the gathering of opposites. The differences in nature of individuals increase their glory, beauty and perfection. It is a temple whose diverse members and limbs have become the throne for the manifestation of the sovereign spirit. It is a kingdom made prosperous through various classes and ranks of people.  ABU0242

Praise be to God that the hearts of the friends are united and in agreement, whether one is from the East or West, South or North, whether German or French, Japanese or American, white or black, red or yellow or brown. Differences of color, homeland and race have no significance in the Baha'i Cause. Rather, the Baha'i unity prevails over all and eliminates all these illusions.   AB02916

In brief, through the influence of these teachings in the East, different nations united. Many souls from among the Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians, and Muslims found complete fellowship and associate with one another in perfect unity and brotherhood, such that if someone enters their gathering, they cannot tell who is Jewish, who is Zoroastrian, who is Christian, and who is Muslim.  ABU0062

The purpose is to mention the handmaidens of the Merciful and remember the loved ones of God - all together is more pleasant and attractive and sweeter and more delightful, for it indicates a state of agreement and unity and oneness, that those numbered individuals have the ruling of a single person, and those many souls are manifestations of the outpourings of the One True Reality.   AB03484

A number of persons coming from the Orient to the Occident for this purpose, this is very wonderful. You cannot find a record of it in any history of any nation. At the utmost a person, or a number of persons, make cross the continent for sightseeing, for trade or commerce, but simply to travel for the meeting of the friends and for the sake of spiritual communion, this is very rare.  ABU0906

In the world of beings, some have specialized in statesmanship, some in morals, others in commerce, agriculture, art, politics, laboratory work, or industrial activities, for these are the outer expression of spiritual, philosophical and scientific faculties. In brief, each individual expresses himself through some special occupation; but one does not hold the others in condemnation.   ABU1348

This auxiliary international language will gather the nations under one standard, as if the five continents of the world had become one, for then mutual interchange of thought will be possible for all. It will remove ignorance and superstition, since each child of whatever race or nation can pursue his studies in science and art, needing but two languages--his own and the International.  ABU0156

The Kingdom of God is also likened unto the temple of man. We know very well that such temple is composed of many members which differ greatly in shape, form, action and office, and when these different members act in harmony with each other and have the real perfect affinity and attraction among them, they form together that temple which will be thoroughly ready to receive the Spirit.   ABU0050

Allah is Most Great! What a paradise has been opened in these days, and what a carpet of divine unity has been spread, such that if a servant among God's servants be in the East of the world and another servant in the West, always does the easterner inhale the holy divine fragrances from the direction of the West, and this westerner catches the sweet scents of the spirit of love from the East  BH04190

Every soul saith unto another thou art cold, while each doth prove his claim through the Word of God, and I declare that both of ye speak truly and are justified, on condition that thou sayest not unto him thou art zealous, nor he unto thee thou art cold. For thou wert created by that verse which none can surpass, while he was created by that verse which perceiveth a station beneath thy being.  BB00005

The beloved of God should today be like waves in the ocean of oneness; each one should be like the breeze wafting in the garden of loving providence. For if thy sights be fastened on the reality of divine grace, thou wouldst see that the friends are all the waves of one ocean and the overflowing streams of a single river. They are the illumination of one lamp and the bright beams of the same sun.  AB08219

Though these trees differ in their colors and fruits, yet having been planted in a mighty garden and verdant meadow, being watered by a single water and growing by the heat of a single star and drawing sustenance from a single soil, they increase in luster through their diversity of colors and multiplicity of fruits. Each one of them increases in grace and beauty through its association with others.  AB12184

Through the grace and favor of the Incomparable Lord, it is hoped that the lovers of the Beauty of the Beloved will day by day find greater attraction and enkindlement, and take steps forward, until they raise up a tent at the center of the world under which different parties and opposing peoples may find rest in perfect unity and oneness, and the world of creation may be adorned by this greatest gift.   AB03402

Behold a beautiful garden full of flowers, shrubs, and trees. Each flower has a different charm, a peculiar beauty, its own delicious perfume and beautiful colour. The trees too, how varied are they in size, in growth, in foliage -- and what different fruits they bear! Yet all these flowers, shrubs and trees spring from the self-same earth, the same sun shines upon them and the same clouds give them rain.  ABU0491

He has shown that although individuals may differ in development and capacity, they are essentially and intrinsically equal as human beings, just as the waves of the sea are innumerable and different, but the reality of the sea is one. The plurality of humanity may be likened to the waves, but the reality of humankind is like the sea itself. All the waves are of the same water; all are waves of one ocean.  ABU0153

O Zayn! The Wronged One hath sacrificed Himself and accepted the tribulations of the world that perchance the horizons might be illumined with the light of unity and adorned with the ornament of concord. Until now, the fragrance of unity and concord hath not been diffused among the loved ones. Unseemly manifestations and displeasing matters are continuously observed, but God hath been and is the Concealer.  BH03024

Then remove ye the differences between them and gather ye together upon a single matter, such that ye may soar in a single heaven and walk upon a single earth and sit upon a single carpet and eat of a single bounty until their spirits and their light and their bodies and their forms become a single spirit and a single thing, and no separation appeareth between them save in what God hath ordained in the Book.   BH02586

Today in Persia and the Orient you will find the followers of Baha'u'llah united in the closest ties of fellowship and love. They have abandoned religious prejudices and have become as one family. When you enter their meetings, you will find Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Zoroastrians, Jews and representatives of other beliefs present, all conjoined in a wonderful unity without a trace of bigotry or fanaticism.   ABU0057

All gathered at this fountain and drank from this sweet spring, taking shelter in the shade of the Divine Lote Tree and making their nests under the Tree of Paradise. Observe what divine power and spiritual force this is that has taken all these different colored garments and dipped them in this divine vat of single color. All colors have become one color, and those multicolored garments have taken on colorlessness.   AB01166

O beloved friends of the contingent world! This is the Day when the sweet-scented spiritual breeze is wafting from the luminous garment of the Lord, and the Holy Spirit, with utmost delicacy and grace, is in motion and vibration. Turn your hearts that you may find it, and incline your ears that you may hear its sweet melody. That which is lost by any soul today cannot be compensated for in centuries and ages to come.   BH00278

There is no greater pleasure in the world than when the different races, nations and creeds gather together and are united. Such a gathering as ours here has no equivalent in the world, with such unity, harmony and love. We are not gathered here because we are of the same country. The oneness of language has not gathered us here. Oneness of politics has not gathered us here. Oneness of interest has not brought us together.  ABU0762

Between us there is no patriotic, linguistic, racial, commercial nor political relation. No worldly bond nor connection of any kind exists between us that would justify such a gathering as this. The love of God has brought us together, and this is the best of means and motive. Every other bond of friendship is limited in effectiveness, but fellowship based upon the love of God is unlimited, everlasting, divine and radiant.   ABU0020

Some soar in the highest realms of understanding, while others remain below. For instance, one soul beholds the Unknowable and Inaccessible Mystery manifest in the Temple of Revelation without separation or connection, while another regards the Temple of Revelation as the Manifestation of God and His commandments and prohibitions as the very commandments of Truth. Both these stations are acceptable before the Divine Throne.   BH01034

There are various uniting powers in the world. One is patriotism, as in America, where people from different countries have united and made a nation. Another means of union is war, as when two nations unite to make war upon a third. A third uniting power is self-benefit, as is seen in trade and commerce. A fourth means of union is that furnished by ideals, different nations or different peoples having one aim or intention unite.   ABU1866

Although these waves may differ in form and shape, they are waves of the same sea. Flowers may be variegated in colors, but they are all flowers of one garden. Trees differ though they grow in the same orchard. All are nourished and quickened into life by the bounty of the same rain, all grow and develop by the heat and light of the one sun, all are refreshed and exhilarated by the same breeze that they may bring forth varied fruits.  ABU0157

Man should weigh his opinions with the utmost serenity, calmness and composure. Before expressing his own views he should carefully consider the views already advanced by others. If he finds that a previously expressed opinion is more true and worthy, he should accept it immediately and not willfully hold to an opinion of his own. By this excellent method he endeavors to arrive at unity and truth. Opposition and division are deplorable.  ABU0540

Study the law of affinity among the domestic animals. They manifest fellowship, they live in flocks and herds; the love of association is evident among them. Among birds we see evidences of instinctive fellowship and love. But the ferocious animals and birds of prey are just the reverse of the domestic. Sheep, cows and horses graze together in concord and agreement, but ferocious animals are never seen associating in love and fellowship.  ABU0204

If love and agreement are manifest in a single family, that family will advance, become illumined and spiritual; but if enmity and hatred exist within it, destruction and dispersion are inevitable. This is, likewise, true of a city. If those who dwell within it manifest a spirit of accord and fellowship, it will progress steadily and human conditions become brighter, whereas through enmity and strife it will be degraded and its inhabitants scattered.  ABU0188

This meeting of yours tonight is very different in character. It is a universal gathering; it is heavenly and divine in purpose because it serves the oneness of the world of humanity and promotes international peace. It is devoted to the solidarity and brotherhood of the human race, the spiritual welfare of mankind, unity of religious belief through knowledge of God and the reconciliation of religious teaching with the principles of science and reason.   ABU0588

Various peoples, symbolized by the wolf and lamb, between whom love and fellowship were impossible would come together during the Messiah's reign, drink from the same fountain of life in His teachings and become His devoted followers. This was realized when peoples of all religions, nationalities and dispositions became united in their beliefs and followed Christ in humility, associating in love and brotherhood under the shadow of His divine protection.  ABU0019

The real principles of the Masonic Order are found in the Baha'i reality. The principles of Christ are found in the Baha'i Cause, and so are the principles of all other faiths. It comprehends all contrarieties. For example: these ministers of Christian denominations are against the Masonic Order, and the Masonic Order is against the Jesuits. The Baha'i is on good terms with all of these -- there are no quarrels and each person finds all in the Baha'i Cause.  ABU2306

Everything will be obtained by unity and harmony, and the very greatest thing by division will disappear, will be annihilated. The appearance of prophets is for the sake of unity and harmony. The manifestation of Christ was for the sake of unity and the manifestation of BAHA'U'LLAH was for the same sake, and ABDUL-BAHA himself has had many trials and troubles for the same sake, to cause the people to unite. There must be established the unification of mankind.   ABU0966

This is a very happy evening, one of joy for two reasons - first, it is a wedding night; and second, praise be to God, people of different races and kinds are present, Americans, French, Italian, Arab, Turk, and Persian, Japanese and Indian, Syrian, Egyptian, briefly from every kind. It is like a flower garden where every kind of flowers are grown, and found there. It is like sea which contains all kind of fish. It is like a mountain where are all kinds of birds.  ABU1575

All of them pass through the process of composition and decomposition; this is a natural law to which all are subject. This law is ruling throughout creation and constitutes a bond of connection among created things. But at the same time there are certain distinguishing features between these objects. For instance, between the mineral and vegetable, the vegetable and animal, the animal and human, points of distinction exist which are unmistakable and significant.   ABU0387

According to these divine teachings, the Turk as well as the Tagik, the European as well as the American, the Asiatic as well as the African-all shall rest under the shadow of this pavilion. The friends of God must therefore deal with the communities of the world with the utmost truthfulness and friendship without any distinction of race, so that all may embrace one another and with the utmost harmony and love may engage in the glorification of the Lord of the Kingdom.   AB01150

Today is a beautiful day. I have been longing to see such a day. I am very happy. My happiness is from the point that it is the power of God which has gathered us together, that while before we were far apart now we are together. We are all gathered together in love. While it is possible for different nations to arrange a meeting together still their hearts are not united. But such a meeting as this, of different nations united in heart, is from the power of the Word of God.  ABU0508

God maketh no distinction between the white and the black. If the hearts are pure both are acceptable unto Him. God is no respecter of persons on account of either color or race. All colors are acceptable to Him, be they white, black, or yellow. If you go into a garden and find all the flowers alike in form, species and color, the effect is wearisome to the eye. The garden is more beautiful when the flowers are many-colored and different; the variety lends charm and adornment.  ABU0120

We stand therefore in need of a universal power which can prevail over the thoughts, opinions and sentiments of all, which can annul these divisions and bring all souls under the sway of the principle of the oneness of humanity. And it is clear and evident that the greatest power in the human world is the love of God. It gathers diverse peoples under the shade of the tabernacle of oneness and fosters the greatest love and fellowship among hostile and contending peoples and nations.   AB00063

The collective center among humans may be unity of interests, but this is temporary and transient. Or the collective center may be language - you see different peoples speaking one language. Unity of language creates fellowship. Among all these, what truly serves as the collective center for human society is religion. It unites different religions, unites different nations, unites different races, unites different homelands, blends individuals together, dissolves them and casts them anew.  ABU1124

Therefore, it is hoped that the divine loved ones, from their great character, will overlook this shortcoming and spread this servant's written letter like a general feast, and all may sit at this table with perfect fellowship, love, joy, delight, unity and harmony, partaking of the spiritual food from the heavenly table. It is sweeter, more delicious, more pleasant and more agreeable to sit together at the feast and partake of the bounties than for each to take provisions separately in a corner.   AB00408

As difference in degree of capacity exists among human souls, as difference in capability is found, therefore, individualities will differ one from another. But in reality this is a reason for unity and not for discord and enmity. If the flowers of a garden were all of one color, the effect would be monotonous to the eye; but if the colors are variegated, it is most pleasing and wonderful. The difference in adornment of color and capacity of reflection among the flowers gives the garden its beauty and charm.  ABU0456

Consider the flowers of a garden: Though differing in kind, color, form and shape, yet, as they drink from the same water, and grow in the same breeze.  When they grow and develop under the warmth and light of one sun, such diversity and difference becomes the cause of enhancing each other's charm and beauty. Once the collective aspect, which is the penetrating power of the Word of God, is achieved, these differences in customs, habits, thoughts, opinions and temperaments become the adornment of the human world.  AB00053


I hope that you may be so enlightened that you may illuminate the Horizons. I hope each one may become a lighted candle. I hope ye may become the signs of God. I hope you become heralds of the Kingdom. I hope ye may become the cause of the union of the hearts of all mankind and succeed in uniting the religions - that this dark world may become illumined and the foundation of war and dissention may be eradicated; that the standard of Universal Peace may be raised in all horizons, and table of Love be spread among all people.   AB00690

The differences in hue, shall lend a charm and harmony to the whole, and such a difference or disagreement is agreement itself, for it lends attraction. Were you to enter a certain garden, and where all the flowers were white in color, or yellow, or all blue, there would be no attraction, but when they are variegated, then it is perfectly charming. In short all the personalities which we possess are admirable, and we hope that the difference of personalities may be that source of attraction which lends charm to this garden.   ABU1936

Consider for instance how one group of created things constituteth the vegetable kingdom, and another the animal kingdom. Each of these two maketh use of certain elements in the air on which its own life dependeth, while each increaseth the quantity of such elements as are essential for the life of the other. In other words, the growth and development of the vegetable world is impossible without the existence of the animal kingdom, and the maintenance of animal life is inconceivable without the co-operation of the vegetable kingdom.  AB00446


Stand firm in the divine Cause and conduct yourselves with one another in perfect love, purely for the sake of the Beloved. Burn away the veils of self with the fire of oneness, and associate with each other with radiant and joyous faces. We hope that you will conduct yourselves with one another in perfect harmony, love and friendship, to such degree that through your unity the standard of oneness may be raised aloft and the banner of polytheism may be destroyed, and that you will vie with one another in good deeds and in showing contentment.  AB09674


There was a time in Iran when various peoples and religions - Persians, Turks, Arabs, Zoroastrians, Jews, Christians and Muslims - different sects and faiths were in utmost opposition to one another. They considered each other unclean and would not sit together at the same table. At such a time, Baha'u'llah appeared like the sun from the East and raised the banner of the unity of mankind. He brought such fellowship among these diverse communities that if someone were to enter their gatherings, they would not know who was Christian, who was Muslim, who was Jewish, and who was Zoroastrian.  ABU0056

The kingdom of God is also likened unto the temple of man. We know very well that such temple is composed of many members which differ greatly in shape, form, action and office, and when these different members act in harmony with each other and have the real perfect affinity and attraction among them, they form together that temple which will be thoroughly ready to receive the spirit. The kingdom of God is also likened into a garden of trees. We all know that a garden in order to be beautiful must contain a good number of trees, various in size and different in colors, flowers and fruits.  ABU0169

This is a beautiful assembly. I am very happy that white and black are together. Among the animals colors exist. The doves are white, black, red, blue; but notwithstanding this diversity of color they flock together in unity, happiness and fellowship, making no distinction among themselves, for they are all doves. How beautiful to see blacks and whites together! I hope, God willing, the day may come when I shall see the red men, the Indians, with you, also Japanese and others. Then there will be white roses, yellow roses, red roses, and a very wonderful rose garden will appear in the world.   ABU0256

Take this boquet of flowers (pointing to an exquisite bunch of flowers in the center of the table) as one example. The flowers are of different form, color and odor; each is individual in its essence; yet they form a beautiful whole. Another kind of gathering is like a flock of birds- they are each of different intention. Then there is the gathering of the elements, which are united and form a new substance. Also, the various parts of the body, which unite to form a being. There are the drops which meet and flow together into one, and these flowing on form a river which flows on and then we have the sea and the ocean. Such a meeting is this, which shall be eternal.   ABU1017

For example, should a person desire to undertake a work, if he consults about it with a number of his brethren, undoubtedly, through deliberation, careful discussion and investigation, the acceptable course will become clear and the real situation manifest and evident. To go a step further: if the inhabitants of a village consult together about their own affairs, it is certain that the path of Right will be disclosed to them. Similarly the members of every guild and profession. For example the members of the Arts' Club hold meetings to discuss artistic problems and further the idea of civic beauty and proportion. Likewise the merchants consult together about their own concerns...  AB02014

Consider the flowers of a garden: though differing in kind, colour, form and shape, yet, inasmuch as they are refreshed by the waters of one spring, revived by the breath of one wind, invigorated by the rays of one sun, this diversity increases their charm, and adds unto their beauty. Thus when that unifying force, the penetrating influence of the Word of God, takes effect, the difference of customs, manners, habits, ideas, opinions and dispositions embellishes the world of humanity, and this is praiseworthy. This diversity, this difference is like the naturally created dissimilarity and variety of the limbs and organs of the human body, for each one contributes to the beauty, efficiency and perfection of the whole.  AB00016

A critic may object, saying that peoples, races, tribes and communities of the world are of different and varied customs, habits, tastes, character, inclinations and ideas, that opinions and thoughts are contrary to one another, and how, therefore, is it possible for real unity to be revealed and perfect accord among human souls to exist? In answer we say that differences are of two kinds. One is the cause of annihilation and is like the antipathy existing among warring nations and conflicting tribes who seek each other's destruction, uprooting one another's families, depriving one another of rest and comfort and unleashing carnage. The other kind which is a token of diversity is the essence of perfection and the cause of the appearance of the bestowals of the Most Glorious Lord.  AB00022

His Holiness the Bab, even more the Blessed Perfection, have commanded love of one's enemy - like our Lord Christ. Love of one's enemy flowers from peaceableness and then leads to absolute passivity, which first of all tolerates evil, nay avoids it or finally overcomes it with 'good'. In the Bayan (the Book of Laws of the Bab), even more in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, it is commanded to train children and youth to utmost courtesy, for a courteous person honours his fellow-man, he cannot but be peaceable and tolerant. The positive command to courtesy and the strict prohibition of ritual impurity serve an immediate practical purpose, namely: the free association of merchants of the divers religions and races is thereby initiated and fostered, and the great goals of the Baha'i Teachings of the brotherhood of man, world unity and world peace - are brought closer to realization.  ABU0429

The Cause has become very great. Many souls are entering it--souls with different mentalities and degrees of understanding. Complex difficulties constantly rise before us. The administration of the Cause has become most difficult. Conflicting thought and theories attack the Cause from every side. Now consider to what extent the believers in God must become firm and soul-sacrificing. Every one of the friends must become the essence of essences; each one must become a brilliant lamp. People all around the world are entering the Cause; people of various tribes and nations and religions and sects. It is most difficult to administer to such heterogeneous elements. Wisdom and Divine insight are necessary.  ABU1061
