

Thus the signs of oneness are manifest and evident in all things. How much more is the Creator of all things!  AB00952

One ocean is seen with a thousand dissimilar waves, one sun with a thousand differing shadows, one earth with infinite manifestations therefrom. Now all people are occupied with the waves and remain veiled from the Sovereign of the sea, of which all these limited forms are but examples. They seclude themselves in transient shadows and are deprived of the waves of the divine Sun which shineth from the holy and merciful horizon.  BH00656

All things return unto this Indivisible One Being (shay'-i-vahid), and all things are created by this Indivisible One Being.  BB00001

All the saplings of the world have appeared from one Tree, and all the drops from one Ocean, and all beings owe their existence to one Being.  BH11459


Now the greatest doubt of the deniers is this: where is that world? And everything which has no concrete external existence is mere imagination. However, the world of existence is one world, but it becomes manifold in relation to diverse realities. For example, the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds are one world, but the animal world in relation to the vegetable world is a spiritual reality and another realm, another condition.  AB00188

However, the mystics imagine that this existence is like an ocean and all beings are like its waves. This metaphor and expression is deficient, for if you look at reality, it would necessitate that the Pre-existent descend to the realm of the contingent, the Absolute Rich take on the form of poverty, Pure Being adorn itself with non-existence, and Divine Light assume the form of worldly darkness. In short, in their view existence is limited to Truth and creation with no third between them - its inner reality is Truth, its outer form creation; the reality is the ocean and the form is the wave. AB00538

Then the difference between the Sufi system of thought and the Baha'i revelation was dwelt on by the Master in detail in the most clear and logical manner. He quoted the philosophic apothegms of the Sufi leaders stating that the Sufi idea about God is pantheistic - The One supreme essence individualizing itself in all the succession of phenomena. One of them says:- The creatures are as a mass of congealed ice, but God - the essence of God is the water. When the ice is thawed down - or when we shuffle off this mortal coil - it will become part of the water again. Another Sufi poet says:- The sea - God - has been from time immemorial and is eternal but these contingencies and creatures are the waves and the ripples thereof. Another celebrated poet "Attar" portrays this idea of pantheism in a long wonderful poem called the "Parliament of birds. The poem is written allegorically. It is said that "Hodhod," a very beautiful bird came one day to all the other birds and said, let us all gather together and make a pilgrimage to the Mountain of "Qaff" - where the King of birds "Seymorg" dwells on a lofty peak. (Now "Seymorg" is a fabulous, mythical bird in the ancient literature of Persia but it means literally 30 birds; "Sey" means 30, "Morg," bird.) Then "Hodhod" sent out messengers to all parts of the world to announce the approaching departure of the birds for the Mountain of "Qaff." Millions of birds joined the Caravan. At last they were ready and started on their long journey. They had to cross many waste deserts and many desolated valleys. They flew over many high mountains. For days they could get neither food nor water. Consequently many of them died on the way. The rays of the Sun burned and scorched the wings and feathers of many thousand and they fell on the desert strewing the trail with their dead bodies. Finally the large army was woefully decimated and only "30 birds" reached the mountain of "Qaff." Having attained to the summit, they did not find any "Seymorg" but looking around they saw they are "Seymorg" themselves. Now it is evident that the Sufis believe in two stations - God and Creatures. They express this pantheism in the simile of the sea, and the waves. This is the foundation of the school of the Sufi philosophy which runs under various aspects throughout all the higher structures of their idealism. They consider all phenomena as parts and parcels of God but limited in their own influences. For example they say, this wave is limited but the ocean in comparison to a single wave is unlimited, but just the same, the wave is part of the sea. This will naturally bring them to the preposterous declaration that the Eternal will become accidental and the Powerful, the weak. They say, that the reality of divinity descends in the world, appearing and reappearing under infinite forms. But the Baha'is say there is God, the creatures and the medium. They state that the Reality of Divinity is Absolute Independence; if it comes within the circle of necessity, It is not Divinity; the Reality of Divinity is Absolute Perfection but the creatures are pure imperfection. Consequently there are channels between God and man. These channels are the Holy Divine Manifestations.  ABU0549

Oneness, in its true significance, means that God alone should be realized as the one power which animates and dominates all things, which are but manifestations of Its energy.  BH06012

The spirit will not become human spirit, nor will vegetable spirit become animal spirit. Existence is one, as it appears in every grade, according to the exigency of that grade.  ABU0448

For verily, whosoever claims distinction between life and knowledge in the Divine Essence hath indeed strayed from the path of truth, for in the Essence there is no differentiation.   BB00064

So there is a connection, and the growth and evolution of each are dependent and contingent upon the other. So are all the other beings (connected) making the world of existence as one person - a great person.  ABU2014

He made the spirit manifest from the very essence of the frame, then returned it thereto that they might blend and become as one thing, that He might demonstrate the sovereignty of His oneness throughout all worlds   BH02405


It is evident, then, that each elemental atom of the universe is possessed of a capacity to express all the virtues of the universe. This is a subtle and abstract realization. Meditate upon it, for within it lies the true explanation of pantheism.  ABU0024


As for what thou hast mentioned in thy poetry about seeing naught but God in everything - this indeed is from God's command, the Sovereign, the Self-Subsisting. However, in all these multiplicities naught can be seen save thy Lord's command, and it is His creation.  BB00003

In this station the truth of the unity of God and of the signs of His sanctity is established. Thou shalt indeed see them all rising above the bosom of God's might and embraced in the arms of His mercy; nor can any distinction be made between His bosom and His arms.  BH00012

How many floods have overflowed, and how many rivers have sprung forth and flowed, yet all draw their sustenance from the mighty ocean. Return therefore from the world of pluralities to unity, and from numbers to the One which is the source of all numbers. That One is sanctified beyond the limitation of the unifiers.  AB07716

The meaning of unity is not to see two or ten as one - this is the very essence of polytheism and atheism itself - rather, the one who believes in unity is he who sees the Truth as one from all directions, sanctified from all names and likenesses, and beholds all else as subsisting through Him and existing by His command.   BH01043


Be thou firm and steadfast in the Cause of God, place thy trust in Him, and hold fast unto the Kingdom of Abha, that thou mayest enter a world wherein, bereft of all else save God, thou findest all to be one being and dost become one of all. When thou possessest Him, thou possessest all; and when thou findest Him, thou findest all.  AB05152

may the multiplicities of the worlds of existence, which are clothed in the limiting garment of the limited self, become extinct and perish, so that the eternal countenance of the Face may emerge from behind the veils of beauty, and the Face of Glory - "All things perish save His Face" - may become manifest and apparent from behind the veil   BH04014

After passing through the Valley of Knowledge, which is the last station of limitation, the wayfarer cometh to the First Station of Unity and drinketh from the cup of oneness, and gazeth upon the manifestations of singleness. In this station he pierceth the veils of plurality, fleeth the realms of the flesh, and ascendeth unto the heaven of unity.  BH00047

Existence is one, as it appears in every grade, according to the exigency of that grade. Existence in the mineral grade takes the form of the mineral; in the vegetable; the vegetable form, and in the animal kingdom the animal form. In the human kingdom it appears as a human being. As existence is limitless, therefore it appears in limitless forms.  ABU0448

That is why we state that religious teaching must ever conform with science and reason. They must correspond with the mind. This is perfectly in conformity with science and reason. There is no doubt or uncertainty about it. Now, inasmuch as the Sun of Reality has become manifest in this polished Mirror, from this Mirror, by processes of reflection, it can permeate throughout all regions.  ABU0048

This supreme reality has been likened to the water of the sea, and material things to its waves. Again, the single Reality has been likened to unity, material things being the manifestations of that Reality as numbers are the manifestations of unity. As one plus one equals two, one plus one plus one equals three, and thus from one all numbers come, so all things are made up from the one Reality.   ABU1567

Existence is synomymous with reality. Non-existence is the anthesis of reality. Reality is like unto the sun. In the world there are many luminaries...but the center of light is the sun itself. Likewise with reality. Although in the world of existence reality exists, in each one of the phenomenon you see the traces of reality, because each phenomenon amongst phenomena has a portion of existence, and existence is reality.  ABU0022

This is that unity in which the multiplicities of the world of existence are submerged in the ocean of its seeking, and this is that essence from whose recognition all accidents wander bewildered in the wilderness. This is that essence which hath been called by all names, from which diverse attributes have become manifest, the hidden mystery in the kingdom of creation and the treasured secret in the repository of names, whose manifestation is the sign of the world's maturity.   BH00789

Those pre-eminent Sufis who founded the doctrine of the "unity of existence" never intended by this term the universally predicated existence which is conceived by the mind. For such an existence is but an accident among others occurring in association with the realities of things. That is to say, these realities are the substance, whereas that existence which is conceived by the mind, the universally predicated existence, is but an accident associated with them. Rather, what these pre-eminent figures have alluded to is an existence compared to which the realities of all things are mere accidents. By this is intended an existence that is pre-eternal whilst all other things are contingent. Thus, the existence to which they refer is that ineffable Reality whereby all things are realized, or, in other words, by virtue of which all things subsist, but which itself remaineth self-subsistent above the heavens and the earth. And since that existence whereby all things are realized is one, there is "unity of existence".   AB00153

Thus they say: The knowledge of God in its fullness encompasses all things, and His knowledge is His very Essence, and the objects of His knowledge, which are created things, are therefore identical to His knowledge, which is identical to His Essence. And since His Essence is pre-existent, the forms of His knowledge, which are the realities of things, must also be pre-existent. Hence they speak of the unity of existence, maintaining that all things are that one Reality and that one Reality has become manifest in all things, even as the sea that appears in countless forms as its waves.  AB00062


Beware, beware lest thou imagine any divergence from the different names and terms that appear in the expositions of the philosophers of this work, and thereby remove thyself from the sacred court of unity and the holy precinct of oneness. Know thou with certainty that all these manifestations that appear proceed from a single reality, and all these names that are heard refer to one reality, and in truth it is one reality and one essence that is differentiated in the worlds of existence and, in the stages of manifestation and determination in the realm of limitations, is mentioned in each station by a particular designation and confined within specific bounds.  BH11861

Two stations are observed in unity: existential unity, which is the negation of all through "no" and the affirmation of the Truth through "except" - meaning they do not consider anything other than the Truth to exist, in the sense that all things are and will be utter nothingness before His manifestation and mention. "All things perish except His face" means that in His presence, none is worthy of existence nor can existence be attributed to them, as has been said: "God was, and there was nothing else beside Him, and now it is as it was before" - even though things are observed to exist now as they did before. The meaning is that in His presence, nothing has or had existence.   BH00409

Know thou that the philosophers have maintained that the all-pervading reality is identical with all things, as they have said the simple reality is all things. This is their doctrine, and they have adduced numerous proofs to establish it. Likewise have the mystics put forth statements concerning unity and the explanation of the station of abstraction. In this regard, he who was their exemplar among those who spoke of the unity of existence, and their model among those who affirmed the vision of Truth in every existing thing, hath said that the outward aspect of the Lord cannot be numbered and His inward aspect cannot be limited, that the outward can scarce be manifest and the inward can scarce be concealed. Many have followed him in this, likening this station to the sea and its waves, to ink and letters, to water and ice.  BH11628
