
The grace of the True One hath been and shall ever be vouchsafed unto all   BH09133



The breaths of the verses have encompassed all created things, and they have been sent down at all times from the presence of the All-Merciful. Blessed is the soul that hath inhaled them and circled round them! Were the peoples of the East and West to purify their ears, they would hear them, and thy Lord is verily a witness unto what I say. This bounty is not confined to anyone, but hath encompassed all worlds. Blessed is he who hath turned unto Him, and woe betide them that have turned aside!  BH09495

Question: "Is this Bounty universal, that is, is every soul endowed with it?"  Answer: "Certainly, yes. But it is as follows: The bounty is dormant or latent in the hearts. Belief and faith make it appear, and become manifest. For instance, the capacity of burning is latent in every candle, but the one which is ignited, makes the bounty of illumination to manifest and to become evident." ABU3088

The True One, exalted be His glory, hath created all mankind for His knowledge, and hath adorned all with the ornament of understanding and wisdom  BH06123

the whole world hath been created for the knowledge of God. In all the heavenly Books, they were given the glad-tidings of the Most Great Manifestation.   BH03331

The iron compass needle, though far from the magnetic center, points toward it, while the rock and soil near the magnetic center are unaware and have no feeling of it   AB04770



God has created man lofty and noble, made him a dominant factor in creation. He has specialized man with supreme bestowals, conferred upon him mind, perception, memory, abstraction and the powers of the senses.   ABU0008


It is most clear that every soul has been and will be a seeker after the knowledge of God, and the cause of rejection, objection, heedlessness and ignorance has been the vain imaginings with which they were formerly raised.   BH02623

The One Creator hath created all people equal and hath conferred upon them superiority over all created things. Therefore, elevation and abasement, increase and decrease, depend upon one's endeavor. The more one strives, the further one advances.   BH00779


Not every heart is capable of acting as a repository for divine love. For not every soul is suited for growing wondrous herbs—only the heart of a human being who continues to bear the trustworthiness of the All-Merciful and to give the fruit of wisdom and eloquence.  BH10402


Today all things stand equal, such that distinctions between created things have been removed. Whoever turns to God is among the most exalted of creation, and whoever turns away has no mention with God, the Sovereign, the Beautiful. The mirror today is he who has detached himself from self and desire and has turned to the holy court, this radiant and luminous scene. Without this, the decree of existence in the heaven of eternity cannot apply to it, let alone this station, if you be of those who know.  BH01756

As to the belief of the American Indians in the Great Spirit, this is explained by the fact that worship is inherent in the nature of man, who must have something above himself upon which he may depend. Even men who are unconscious of this and deny it, depend upon it notwithstanding.  ABU2395
