
"truth is for all"  ABU3375

The heavenly teachings of the past are loved and praised, but the minds and thoughts have developed. There is a need for universal teachings and those are the teachings of Baha'u'llah, which encompass all teachings.  AB02275

The Baha'i Faith encompasses the principles of all religions   ABU3566

Rest assured your child will be assisted by the divine concourse and through this assistance it will exhibit a universal consciousness -- for this cause encompasses the west and the east and children born under these conditions in this day will have the advantages of the universal illumination. Today some children are called prodigies, but the inheritors of this cause will attain to a degree that the others, even though educated in the best schools and with every advantage, know nothing of.   ABU2399

The Baha'i Faith encompasses the principles of all religions, for when one hundred comes, ninety is also with it.   ABU3566

The foundation of divine religions is one - that foundation will become universal through the power of Baha'u'llah.  AB00801

The whole world hath been created for the knowledge of Him Who is the Ancient of Days  BH10234

This door is open before the face of everyone and this arena is spacious for the skill of all  AB11264

this Wronged One hath summoned all the peoples of the world--whether divines or rulers, monotheist or polytheist--openly and without any veil, to the Most Exalted Horizon.   BH05356

It makes no difference what school we enter or where we send our children. There are schools in Persia in which there are children from all religions. Whatever is universal is heavenly and whatever is personal is satanic. Then everything ought to be universal. It is clear and evident among the Baha'is that whatever is universal is heavenly and whatever is personal is human.  ABU0155

As to the belief of the American Indians in the Great Spirit, this is explained by the fact that worship is inherent in the nature of man, who must have something above himself upon which he may depend. Even men who are unconscious of this and deny it, depend upon it notwithstanding.  ABU2395

Therefore, one must consider the universal in all degrees. Consider a lamp that humans light - at most it illuminates 100 steps, but the sun, which is the divine lamp, illuminates this entire solar sphere and bestows bounty upon all horizons, for the sun is the divine lamp. Thus human endeavors must relate to humanity as a whole.  AB12140

Praise be to God that the Sun of Universal Religion hath dawned. From all parts of the world host after host enter under its Radiance. Erelong it will become world-wide.  ABU1724

Now concerning our social principles, namely the teachings of His Holiness Baha'u'llah spread far and wide fifty years ago, they verily comprehend all other teachings. It is clear and evident that without these teachings progress and advancement for mankind are in no wise possible. Every community in the world findeth in these Divine Teachings the realization of its highest aspirations. These teachings are even as the tree that beareth the best fruits of all trees. Philosophers, for instance, find in these heavenly teachings the most perfect solution of their social problems, and similarly a true and noble exposition of matters that pertain to philosophical questions.  AB00020


Every limiting and restricting movement or meeting of mere personal interest is human in nature. Every universal movement unlimited in scope and purpose is divine. The Cause of God is advanced whenever and wherever a universal meeting is established among mankind.   ABU0588

They expected us to be servants and propagators of their old dogmas and customs, not knowing that we are obliged to serve humanity and spread universal love and harmony.   ABU2598

Any movement that is for the benefit of mankind should be joined by the Baha'is. If they are not asked to help, they should offer their services, especially in all kinds of charitable work. They must not be exclusive but general and serve believers and unbelievers alike.  ABU3263

These teachings of Baha'u'llah are all inclusive.   ABU1508

In the Blessed Cause teaching is universal. All the friends must arise to teach. The work of teaching is not individual or private - all are commanded to it.  ABU1832

There are prepared souls in every religion. Today God is working in all the religions, instructing a number of souls in the school of Celestial brotherhood. These souls are related together by the invisible tie of the Spirit.   ABU0673

Every universal matter is from God; and limitations are from man. Therefore, if people's services and efforts are undertaken for the benefit of all, they are acceptable to God and leave lasting traces.  ABU3316

Originally we were Mohammedan, but since the declaration of Baha'u'llah we love all humanity.   ABU0365

Although in this blessed Day there is neither East nor West - all directions are His directions  AB07680

Let the believers carry the Glad-tidings of the Kingdom of Abha to every corner of [the] earth.   ABU2936

The Manifestation appeared not for a few, but for all. To the simple, as to the great, he is the same   ABU1853

Today the Cause of Baha'u'llah is world-embracing and its call has reached all the countries of the world.   AB06818

Then to those who have believed in God among Arabs and Persians - verily His mercy encompasses all the worlds.  BH09765

The Baha'is must be in the Baha'i Cause which comprehends all the degrees and is perfect from every standpoint.  AB11555

the Cause of God encompasses all divine matters and possesses the requirements and needs of different nations and peoples   ABU1601

"I wish you would become heavenly and not Japanese nor Arab, English, Persian, Turk, and American. You would become divine"  ABU3251

A Cause in this age must be Universal and man must embody the universality of the Cause, otherwise it will yield no fruit.   ABU0734

This Herald who caused the divine call to reach the ears of East and West made no distinction in His summons and established no differences  AB07529

Consider how the people bear testimony to the fact that this Religion is universal and its principles are conducive to the welfare of humanity.  ABU2538

This celestial music hath moved the hearts of the people in the world and the Blessed Tree embraced all communities and nations under its shade!  AB05468

"avoid speaking of religious doctrines, for the teachings of Baha'u'llah are a universal grace and will establish the oneness of the world of humanity"  AB03998

Every Person more or less is interested in some school of Thought, he will find the principles of that school highly developed in the Baha'i Revelation.  ABU2888

We are commanded to strive with the utmost oneness, love, harmony and fellowship with all the governments and peoples of the world, nay even with individual souls   AB01483

whatsoever hath flowed and continueth to flow from the Most Exalted Pen hath been and ever shall be for the elevation of humanity and for their freedom and deliverance   BH06030

"Don't forget this, that this is a Universal Temple, - advertise it so; announce that this is for all and every religion and that whoever wished can come and worship."   ABU3239

You can be a Baha'i-Christian, a Baha'i-Freemason, a Baha'i-Jew, a Baha'i-Muhammadan. The number nine contains eight, and seven, and all the other numbers, and does not deny any of them.  ABU2303

It is good that this church is open to everyone, and is the cause of fellowship among every sect and creed, inasmuch as whatever is universal is of God, and that which is particular is of humanity.  ABU3729

He issued a universal call to all the peoples of the contingent world and opened the doors of the supreme gift to the face of all on earth. All peoples, tribes, religions and paths were present in the Most Holy Court   AB05088

As this century is the century of light and the Cycle of the revelation of Mysteries undoubtedly these glorious aims will be fully established and the influence of this great Cause will encircle the East and the West.  ABU3018

Baha'u'llah is the universal Shepherd. All mankind are His sheep, and the adherents of all religions are welcome in the Mashrekol-Azkar to worship the Father of all humanity with perfect freedom and reverence and obedience.  ABU0213

Therefore, a divine universal good cause cannot be confined to either East or West, for the Sun of Reality sheds its rays upon both East and West and its heat penetrates both South and North. It is not specific to one region rather than another.   AB00430

Before my departure for America the poor of all nationalities came to me, Persians and Turks, Arabs and Syrians, Greeks and Europeans etc. belonging to all religions and faiths. I helped gladly every one without any distinction of race or color.   ABU1981

in this wonderful Dispensation, philanthropic undertakings are for all humanity, without any exception, because this is the manifestation of the mercifulness of God. Therefore, every universal matter -- that is, one that belongs to all the world of humanity -- is divine.  ABU0220

In the past, although their missions were universal in scope, yet owing to many reasons well known to men of understanding they were nationalized. But in this century those reasons do not exist and therefore the religion of Baha'u'llah will retain its universal aspect and purity.   ABU0349

This Cause embraceth the aspirations of all souls. It is for the spiritualists, the theosophists and all the peoples of the world, that no excuse may remain for anyone before God. The Cause must be all-embracing, so that every sufferer may find therein his remedy - a divine elixir.   ABU0675

The Baha'i Cause is comprehensive. Every community finds the reality of its principles in this Cause. The Baha'i Cause is like a tree and these various communities, or gatherings or societies, are branches. When you compare the tree with the branches you find every branch in the tree, and this is the Baha'i Cause.  ABU2306

The splendors of His bounty follow one after another and the lights of His generosity shine forth in both East and West. No region remains untouched, neither the lands of the Arabs and Romans, nor the climes of Sind and Hindustan, nor the countries of the Turks and Persians, nor the realms of Europe, Africa and America.  AB00320

But what is strange is that this nameless one desires a hundred thousand crores of partners mixed together in this name, so that waves of partners in this name and fame, title and trace, like waves would encompass East and West, and this crown like a lamp would shine on the heads of all who are on earth like a brilliant sun.   AB05740

Such Baha'i members having drank from the pure fountain of the Universal Teachings of Baha'u'llah, are in reality cosmopolitan in spirit, mind and soul and have arisen above the stultifying limit of nationality and patriotism. They exert all their moral, religious and intellectual powers for the progress of the world and the perfection of mankind.  ABU1386

The Baha'i Cause is like unto a garden in which one finds all kinds of flowers. In this garden you will find the flowers seen in others; and beside, there are other rare flowers here that are not extant anywhere else. It includes the Teachings of other revelations and has revealed numerous, distinct principles adaptable to the requirements of this age  ABU2815

everything which belongs to the universal is divine and all that is divine is certainly for the universal good. Therefore, a divine cause, for universal good, cannot be limited to the Orient nor to the Occident, because the flame of the sun of Truth illumines the East and the West and its heat is felt in the south as well as in the north; there is no difference between the two poles.   AB03880

Therefore the Cause of Baha'u'llah and the heavenly teachings encompass all perfections, including the education of children, including the unity of the human world, including the harmony of religion with science and reason, including equality between people, including the breaths of the Holy Spirit, including the unity of women and men, including the elimination of religious prejudices, including heavenly virtues, including divine fragrances, including universal peace.  AB01335

Our aim is to spread the knowledge of reality, and diffuse the fragrance of the rose. Let us have all the sweet roses we can get. We can never have enough roses. Besides this, the Baha'i movement is not an organization. It is the fresh Breeze of the Garden of God. You can never organize the Baha'i Cause. It cannot be located in one single place or centered in one individual. The Baha'i movement is the spirit of this age. It is everywhere. It has no geographical limits. It is the essence of all the highest ideals of this century.   ABU0763

Truly, the divine Revelation in its Manifestations is not tied to chronological points in the history of the world, to place or time; a true Prophet not only has to cause the rebirth of His people gone astray, He also has to create 'new life'. It is true that a Prophet - considered physically, materially, springs from the loins of a particular people, but the emanation of His prophetic spirit radiates beyond the inhabited world, and it is suitable and destined not only to embrace and vivify His compatriots, but also to have a lasting influence beyond.   ABU0193

Today is a day when particular thoughts, whether from individuals or nations, cause great misfortune and ultimately lead to evident loss. What is universal today is divine and causes the progress of all humanity, while what is particular is pure detriment and sheer loss. 
