
the very first service to the world of man is to establish this auxiliary international means of communication. It will become the cause of the tranquillity of the human commonwealth. Through it sciences and arts will be spread among the nations, and it will prove to be the means of the progress and development of all races. We must endeavor with all our powers to establish this international auxiliary language throughout the world.  ABU1584

Today the greatest need of the world of humanity is discontinuance of the existing misunderstandings among nations. This can be accomplished through the unity of language. Unless the unity of languages is realized, the Most Great Peace and the oneness of the human world cannot be effectively organized and established.   ABU1584

"In the schools of each nation the mother tongue will be taught, as well as the revised Universal Language."   ABU2871

Consider the differences that emerged after Adam: in the beginning, these known languages mentioned were not present on earth, nor were these established rules. They spoke in a language other than these mentioned tongues. The diversity of languages occurred in the land known as Babel, after which that land was called Babel, meaning where the tongue was confused, that is, where it became different.  BH00060

Lack of intercourse and communication created differences of language and customs. Little by little they were more and more stranged from each other.  ABU2544

One language will be chosen as the means of universal communication. That language is now in the course of construction. If this new language which is being promulgated, shall be universally recognized, it will produce great results.   ABU1330


At the city gate four travelers sat, a Persian, a Turk, an Arab and a Greek. They were hungry and wanted their evening meal. So one was selected to buy for them all. But among them they could not agree as to what should be bought. The Persian said angoor, the Turk uzum, the Arab wanted aneb and the Greek clamored for staphylion green and black.   ABU2409


should any person of understanding become acquainted with the divine teachings, he would be attracted and yield momentous results, for the new teachings are the spirit of this age and the light of this century.... Among them is the unity of language.  AB01534

you have undertaken to learn the new language  AB05333

Eleventh, the establishment of a universal language  AB01419

espouse the cause of an international auxiliary language   AB05484

the upholding of the principle of one auxiliary, universal language   ABU2012

M.F. Oh! How wonderful! I would like to go there! It must be an ideal country!  A.B. It is a very extraordinary country. Its inhabitants are all angels and they speak one universal language.  M.F. Then everybody understands each other? It is not like Hungary where one must speak many languages? How can I reach there?  A.B. Come! Come! I will be thy guide. I will take thee through its broad avenues shaded by verdant, never-fading trees. I will unfold before thy vision, the most heavenly panorama, the like of which thou hast never seen. I will, little by little teach thee the secrets of the ever-changing hues of its flowers, the murmuring of its breezes and the divine notes of its music. I will take thee through its imperial palaces and will show to thee the most wonderful scenes.  ABU0976

"First to spread the knowledge of Esperanto because I believe it will help unify mankind."  ABU1250

The differences in languages cause disunion between nations. There must be one universal language.  ABU2075

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is the unity of language, that a universal language should be established   ABU1080

Thou must exert thy utmost effort there and promote the divine teachings, among which is the unity of language.  AB08640

The matter of the Esperantists is more important than the League assembly. Perhaps Mr. Yazdani can sow a seed among them.  AB02147

This is the day of universal peace, of universal brotherhood, of a universal language and of the union of all religions.   ABU2536

America I have encouraged the Bahais to study Esperanto and to the extent of my ability I will strive in its spread and promotion.   ABU3557

The seventh candle is unity of language, i.e., the choice of a universal tongue in which all peoples will be instructed and converse.  AB00143

When it reaches perfection, the children of the friends will study it in all schools. But at present, English and French are more necessary.  AB12496

The unifying force among humans may be language; you see different peoples speaking the same language. Unity of language is a cause of fellowship.   ABU0987


Baha'u'llah has announced the necessity for a universal language which shall serve as a means of international communication and thus remove misunderstandings and difficulties.   ABU0038

seventh is unity of language - one language must be chosen or newly invented that will be universal so that misunderstandings between religions and races and nations will disappear  AB07457

One language must be selected as an international medium of speech and communication. Through this means misunderstandings will be lessened, fellowship established and unity assured.  ABU0012

The language of Esperanto is not yet perfected so that it may become useful in travel. In the course of time it will be spread in various countries and will become a universal language.  AB02266

"Thus, for world peace and world unity, a common bond of mental understanding, e.g. a world-unifying language, is urgently needed, thus the learned and the laity of all nations are agreed."  ABU0201

Language is the great barrier between nations. When thoughts are interchanged destinies become one. All languages are difficult of acquirement for the real language is deeper than the outer words.  ABU0125

But regarding the universal language: Ere long significant and scientific discussions concerning this matter will arise among the people of discernment and insight and it will produce the desired result.  AB07144

This language will be spread and universalized to a certain degree, but later on a language more complete than this, or the same language will undergo some changes and alterations and will be adopted and become universal.  AB10953

The Religion of Unity must be nurtured with the aid of a unifying language and a unifying script; attention should also be paid to the learning of the most important languages of the world in addition to one's mother tongue.   ABU0770

One language will be chosen as the means of universal communication. That language is now in the course of construction. If this new language which is being promulgated, shall be universally recognized, it will produce great results.   ABU1330

The greatest means of such a union is the universal language. It is most certain and indubitable that the universal language will completely wipe away all the differences from amongst mankind. This is clear and does not need any proof.  ABU1571

He was speaking in a new language that all of us could understand. It was not Arabic or Persian or Turkish but a new language. My heart was filled with joy because I thought this must be the universal language spoken of by himself 50 years ago.  ABU1546

"Now if there were a Universal Language, how excellent it would be. We could talk with each other. How excellent it would be. Compare this with all the world, the greatest means for love is a Universal Language. It creates love amongst mankind."  ABU0950


Baha'u'llah has proclaimed the adoption of a universal language. A language shall be agreed upon by which unity will be established in the world. Each person will require training in two languages: his native tongue and the universal auxiliary form of speech.   ABU0052

Ninth, a universal language shall be adopted and be taught by all the schools and institutions of the world. A committee appointed by national bodies of learning shall select a suitable language to be used as a medium of international communication. All must acquire it.  ABU0007

Among the confirmations in this century is the universal language which we see spreading. Without doubt a universal language will remove misunderstandings, for every individual will become informed of the thoughts of all humanity, and this is among the means for the unity of humankind.  ABU0085

A universal language shall be adopted which shall be taught by all the schools and academies of the world. A committee appointed by national bodies shall select a suitable language to be used as a means of international communication, and that language shall be taught in all the schools of the world.   ABU0225

Seventh, the use of an international language as an auxiliary means of international communication; thus, through the widespread education and the international use of one language, the misunderstandings existing amongst various nations shall be removed, preparing the way for affiliation and intercourse.   ABU0382

you are giving instruction in English, and are corresponding with a number of quarters in the universal language. Your communications with the Esperanto newspaper in England will be a source of inspiration and encouragement to that journal. There is no doubt of the benefit of learning this language at this time   AB05276

One will be elected from among the existing languages or a new language has to be developed. This will be spoken everywhere and will become the universal language. We need diversity as well, which is why all the different languages also have to be preserved. But a universal language will improve the mutual relations.  ABU0477

Diversity of languages has been a fruitful cause of discord. The function of language is to convey the thought and purpose of one to another. Therefore, it matters not what language man speaks or employs. Sixty years ago Baha'u'llah advocated one language as the greatest means of unity and the basis of international conference.  ABU0023

Praise be to God, that Dr. Zamenhof has constructed the Esperanto language. It has all the potential qualities of universal adoption. All of us must be grateful and thankful to him for his noble effort for in this matter he has served his fellowmen well. He has constructed a language which will bestow divine benefits on all peoples.  ABU0354

"no one person can construct a Universal Language. It must be made by a Council representing all countries, and must contain words from different languages. It will be governed by the simplest rules, and there will be no exceptions; neither will there be gender, nor extra and silent letters. Everything indicated will have but one name."   ABU2871

In order to facilitate complete understanding between all people, a universal auxiliary language will be adopted and in the schools of the future two languages will be taught -- the mother tongue and this international auxiliary tongue which will be either one of the existing language or a new language made up of words from all the languages.   ABU0108

The tenth principle is the establishment of a universal language so that we will not have to acquire so many languages in the future. In the schools they will study two, the mother tongue and the international auxiliary language. The use of an international auxiliary language will become a great means of dispelling the differences between nations.   ABU0083

They asked about the Arabic language, whether it could become universal. He said no. They asked about Esperanto. He said that a few weeks ago I wrote a letter from New York to one of the leaders of Esperanto saying that if an assembly of representatives of races and kings was formed and this language was put under discussion and promotion, then it could become universal.  ABU3009

Some parties in the world have striven to speak in their particular languages and have considered this matter a cause of their elevation and exaltation... However, in the view of the Wronged One, what is beloved is that all the world be seen as one homeland, and that effort be made to promote one language or two, as mentioned before, so that all regions may attain to the light of unity  BH06112

As for the Esperanto association, mix with them and whoever you find receptive, breathe into them the breath of life... It appears that the Esperanto society has capacity, and you are knowledgeable and skilled in the Esperanto language. Correspond also with the German Esperantists and others... It is hoped that henceforth there will be strong effect in the souls through the Esperanto language.   AB00563

The greatest achievement of the age in conferring profit and pleasure on mankind is the creation of an auxiliary language for all. Oneness of language creates oneness of heart. Oneness of language engenders peace and harmony. It sweeps away all misunderstandings among peoples. It establishes harmony among the children of men. It gives to the human intellect a broader conception, a more commanding point of view.  ABU0156

We hope that the radiance of these teachings will illuminate all horizons and the spirituality of these counsels will cause East and West to embrace like two passionate lovers, so that this pavilion of the unity of humanity may cast its shade at the center of the world and make the five continents as one continent, unite different nations into a single nation, make opposing religions one religion, and distant homelands one homeland, and diverse tongues one language.  AB00763

One of the great steps towards universal peace would be the establishment of a universal language. Baha'u'llah commands that the servants of humanity should meet together, and either choose a language which now exists, or form a new one. This was revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas forty years ago. It is there pointed out that the question of diversity of tongues is a very difficult one. There are more than eight hundred languages in the world, and no person could acquire them all.  ABU0705

Concerning the Esperanto language: The friends have already written numerous letters that have been published throughout the world. It is my earnest hope that when the Esperantists realise to what extent this language hath been favourably recommended, they may be attracted to the Cause, may endeavour to translate some of the important Tablets of Baha'u'llah into Esperanto and publish them, may set their faces toward the Abha Kingdom and beseech divine aid and assistance for this mighty enterprise.   AB00588

Among the things which are conducive to unity and concord and will cause the whole earth to be regarded as one country is that the divers languages be reduced to one language and in like manner the scripts used in the world be confined to a single script. It is incumbent upon all nations to appoint some men of understanding and erudition to convene a gathering and through joint consultation choose one from amongst the various existing languages, or create a new one, to be taught to the children in all the schools of the world.  BH00140

Writing on this subject, 50 years ago, His Holiness Baha'o'llah said that complete union between the various sections of the world would be an unrealized dream as long as an international language was not established. The basis of knowledge and the excellencies of endeavor in this world are to teach and to be taught. To acquire sciences and to teach them in turn depends upon language and when the international auxiliary language becomes universal, it is easily conceivable that the acquirement of knowledge and instruction will likewise become universal.  ABU0354

Choose ye a single language for the use of all on earth, and adopt ye likewise a common script. God, verily, maketh plain for you that which shall profit you and enable you to be independent of others. He, of a truth, is the Most Bountiful, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. This binding command has been revealed from the Ancient Realm for the people of the world in general and the members of parliaments in particular. Each year ye add to your expenditures and place this burden upon your subjects - this is utterly remote from justice and equity. It is observed that due to the diversity of languages among the peoples of the earth, most nations are deprived of association, fellowship, and the acquisition of knowledge and wisdom from one another. Therefore, through pure bounty and grace, all are commanded to choose a language - whether newly created or selected from existing tongues of the earth - and all shall speak it. In this way, the whole earth shall be seen as one city, for all will understand each other's speech and comprehend one another's intent.  BH00033

If everybody could speak one language, how much more easy would it be to serve humanity! Therefore appreciate 'Esperanto', for it is the beginning of the carrying out of one of the most important of the Laws of Baha'u'llah, and it must continue to be improved and perfected.  ABU0705

In this regard, that which has been revealed from the Supreme Pen is this, exalted be His grandeur: "We have decreed in the Most Holy Book: O members of parliaments throughout the world! Choose ye a single language for the use of all on earth, and adopt ye likewise a common script. God, verily, maketh plain for you that which shall profit you and enable you to be independent of others. He, of a truth, is the Most Bountiful, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed."

This binding command has been revealed from the Ancient Realm for the people of the world in general and the members of parliaments in particular, for the execution of commands, laws and ordinances revealed in the Book has been entrusted to the men of the Houses of Justice of God. This decree is the greatest means for unity and the supreme cause for association and fellowship among the peoples of the lands. 

It is observed that due to the diversity of languages among the peoples of the earth, most nations are deprived of association, fellowship, and the acquisition of knowledge and wisdom from one another. Therefore, through pure bounty and grace, all are commanded to choose a language - whether newly created or selected from existing tongues of the earth - and all shall speak it. In this way, the whole earth shall be seen as one city, for all will understand each other's speech and comprehend one another's intent. This is the cause of the world's advancement and elevation. Should a person journey from his homeland and enter any city, it would be as though he had entered his own dwelling. Hold fast to this, O people of the assemblies in cities and lands!  BH00033

