

And His teachings are these:... Eighth, compulsory education  AB01419


It is most clear and manifest that national affairs will never revolve around their proper axis until the whole people have received instruction, and public thought has been directed to a single end  ABU3525


Among them is universal education.  AB01534

foster the universalization of education   AB05484

The sixth is that education must be universal.   ABU1080

With perfect wisdom engage in educating those on earth  AB04367

If they establish a school, none must be denied entrance.   ABU2252

"By the education of the public with the sentiments of Peace."  ABU1616

As for the name of the school, call it "Universal," meaning it is for all peoples.   AB05208

They diffuse universal education, that every soul may as much as possible have a share of knowledge.   AB02574

Another characteristic of progress consists in the earnest and sincere development of public education  ABU3257

Education will then be universal at the cost of the state, and no person will be deprived of its opportunity.  ABU3667

He has also proclaimed the principle that all mankind shall be educated and that no illiteracy be allowed to remain.   ABU0038

Sixth, the generalizing of education -- the spread of education. Thus, in the course of time no illiteracy shall remain.   ABU0382

differences that arise from oppression and transgression, and from prejudice and ignorance, are eliminated through good education and wisdom   ABU2988

As for differences arising from oppression, transgression, prejudice and ignorance - these are eliminated through proper education and wisdom.   ABU0795

It is most clear and manifest that national affairs will never revolve around their proper axis until the whole people have received instruction  ABU3525

The acquisition of sciences and arts, after faith and certitude, is among the greatest virtues of the human world  AB03999


Each of the various branches of learning is a beautiful veil for the temple of existence. Thou shouldst not be remiss in acquiring that which will conduce to progress and advancement.  BH10084

You must strive with complete effort in the education of souls and their refinement and improvement, dispensing to each according to their capacity from the Kawthar of divine knowledge.   BH01717

We must ever think of the education of the public and try our utmost to improve the conditions of the submerged class and lay a solid foundation for the erection of the temple of human happiness.   ABU2098

Mount Carmel will someday be covered with great universities and colleges of learning. Then the poor will enjoy the highest advantages from the establishment here of free institutions of education.   ABU1699


Eighth, education is essential, and all standards of training and teaching throughout the world of mankind should be brought into conformity and agreement; a universal curriculum should be established, and the basis of ethics be the same.  ABU0007

All mankind should partake of both knowledge and education, and this partaking of knowledge and of education is one of the necessities of religion. ABU0225

The seventh teaching of Baha'o'llah concerns itself and is in accord with this system of universal education; it is that all the children should study and acquire a profession, that there should not remain a single individual without a profession whereby he can earn his livelihood.   ABU0036

Would the extension of education, the development of useful arts and sciences, the promotion of industry and technology, be harmful things? For such endeavor lifts the individual within the mass and raises him out of the depths of ignorance to the highest reaches of knowledge and human excellence.  AB00004


The body politic should instead strive night and day, bending every effort to ensure that souls are properly educated, that they progress day by day, that they advance in science and learning, that they acquire praiseworthy virtues and laudable manners, and that they forsake violent behaviour, so that crimes might never occur.   AB00090

Education holds an important place in the new order of things. The education of each child is compulsory. If there is not money enough in a family to educate both the girl and the boy the money must be dedicated to the girl's education, for she is the potential mother. If there are no parents the community must educate the child.   ABU0108

The only remedy is education, opportunity; for equality means equal qualification. If a pupil is told that his intelligence is less than his fellow pupils, it is a very great drawback and handicap to his progress. He must be encouraged to advance by the statement, "You are most capable, and if you endeavor, you will attain the highest degree."   ABU0146

The matter of education is most important. This is among the greatest divine foundations. All the Prophets came to educate souls. The crooked branch becomes straight through education. The wild tree becomes fruitful through education. The ignorant child becomes wise through education. The ill-tempered one becomes well-behaved through education.  ABU0949


"The doors of Colleges and Universities must be wide open to the adherents of all religions and the members of all nationalities - so that these different people from widely-scattered countries may meet and associate with each other in those educational institutions, learn each others' customs and habits, interchange their ideas and discard their purposeless prejudices."  ABU1512

In this wondrous Cycle, the firm foundation is the establishment of education in sciences and knowledge, and by explicit text all children must acquire sciences to the necessary degree. Therefore, schools and educational institutions must be established in every city and village, and all children must strive to acquire learning to the necessary degree in cities and villages.  AB03755




Truly God has created all the beings, but has created them that they may be educated. And through education transforms stone into crystal, brings the light from the oil, changes an ignorant man into a clever one, and places him above the animal. Civilization makes man understand all discoveries and invent all things. Education gives sight to the blind, and civilization changes the savage into an angel.   ABU0272

The Universities and colleges of the world must hold fast to three cardinal principles. First; Whole-hearted service to the Cause of education, the unfolding of the mysteries of nature, the extension of the boundaries of Pure Science, the elimination of the causes of ignorance and social evils, the standardization of a universal system of instruction, and the diffusion of the lights of knowledge and reality.   ABU1650

Among other teachings and principles Baha'u'llah counsels the education of all members of society. No individual should be denied or deprived of intellectual training, although each should receive according to capacity. None must be left in the grades of ignorance, for ignorance is a defect in the human world. All mankind must be given a knowledge of science and philosophy -- that is, as much as may be deemed necessary.  ABU0051

In this new and wondrous Cause, the advancement of all branches of knowledge is a fixed and vital principle, and the friends, one and all, are obligated to make every effort toward this end, so that the Cause of the Manifest Light may be spread abroad, and that every child, according to his need, will receive his share of the sciences and arts -- until not even a single peasant's child will be found who is completely devoid of schooling.  AB04334

If man himself is left in his natural state, he will become lower than the animal and continue to grow more ignorant and imperfect. If we wish to illumine this dark plane of human existence, we must bring man forth from the hopeless captivity of nature, educate him and show him the pathway of light and knowledge, until, uplifted from his condition of ignorance, he becomes wise and knowing; no longer savage and revengeful, he becomes civilized and kind.   ABU0104


The ninth admonition is in regard to education. All the children must be educated so that there will not remain one single individual without an education. In cases of inability on the part of the parents through sickness, death, etc., the state must educate the child. In addition to this widespread education, each child must be taught a profession or trade so that each individual member of the body politic will be enabled to earn his own living and at the same time serve the community.   ABU0083



The most important of all matters in question, and that with which it is most specially necessary to deal effectively, is the promotion of education. And no freedom or salvation could be imagined in the case of any nation which had not progressed in this greatest and most important point.   ABU3170
