Today the greatest need of the world of humanity is discontinuance of the existing misunderstandings among nations. This can be accomplished through the unity of language. Unless the unity of languages is realized, the Most Great Peace and the oneness of the human world cannot be effectively organized and established because the function of language is to portray the mysteries and secrets of human hearts. ABU1584

This matter of the peace of nations was established by Baha'u'llah in Iran sixty years ago, that is, in the year 1851, and during this period He issued many tablets and epistles concerning this subject, first publishing them in Iran and later disseminating them to other regions, until in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, revealed nearly fifty years ago, He explicitly addressed the matter of universal peace and enjoined all Baha'is to sacrifice themselves wholeheartedly in this great cause, even to offer up their lives and property, to promote fellowship among nations and religions, and to proclaim the unity of mankind throughout all regions of the world.  AB00637

The law of Peace has come to stay. We are living in the radiant age of Peace. The Angels of Peace are hovering above our heads. We are daily advancing in the Path of Peace. The Army of Peace is being recruited from amongst all nations and people. Let the pacifists know that the Unconquerable Power of God - that irresistible, moral, ineffable Something, is behind them. No government and no nation can withstand them. With this power alone they will be able to defeat all opposition and remove all the stumbling blocks. From now on lesser and lesser will be the magic spell of war, greater and greater will be the influence of Peace. The day is coming when the Dove of Peace shall reign over all the continent, the laws of Peace shall rule all the nations and the resources of war will be expended over that which would be conducive to the spiritualization of mankind. ABU1322

In the past century, the most important question that occupied the mind of man was the establishment of political freedom and this aim was more or less broadcast. But in this luminous century the greatest bestowal of the world of humanity is Universal Peace, which must be founded, so that the realm of creation may obtain composure, the East and the West, which include in their arms the five continents of the globe, may embrace each other, mankind may rest beneath the tent of oneness of the world of humanity, and the flag of universal peace may wave over all the regions.   ABU2072

Previously we spoke of universal peace and people laughed...but in the days of the Blessed Beauty the requirements of the realities of things is universal peace   ABU1298

our pursuit of peace does not stem from mere thoughts but is a matter of religious belief and among the eternal divine foundations.   AB00423

Fifth, universal peace among mankind  AB01419

universal peace will be established   AB01970

lays the foundation of universal peace   AB01073

The tent of Universal Peace is set up!   ABU1688

the banner of universal peace will wave   AB06044

the Banner of Universal Peace be upraised  ABU2277

your purpose is to promote universal peace  AB09480

may the banner of universal peace be raised   AB02083

Divine Civilization is Peace, Love and Unity.  ABU3049

universal peace must be established, religions must be unified and equality must be accomplished.  ABU2812

They are the great pioneers of Universal Peace.  ABU3670

may you become a cause of spreading universal peace  AB05725

may universal peace raise its banner in all regions   AB02902

bringing all beneath the pavilion of universal peace   AB05103

It is a civilization that conduces to universal peace  ABU3743

enter under the shade of the Ensign of Universal Peace   AB03421

advance toward the Kingdom of Peace and reconciliation   ABU1165

He seeks universal peace and desires the welfare of all.  AB06061

Demolish the foundation of war and lay the basis of peace  AB06026

I hope that you will raise the standard of universal peace  ABU2324

My message is the oneness of humanity and universal peace   ABU2221

become the heavenly angels of the kingdom of universal peace   AB11916

I have come to America to raise the standard of universal peace  ABU2596

Universal peace will be realized and people will become angelic.  ABU2862

And my hope is that universal peace will eventually be established.   AB03635

This peace will come about after great upheavals and events take place.  ABU3463

raise the pavilion of universal peace and unity of the world of humanity   ABU2320

If the governments should like to wage war the people will not agree to it.   ABU3258

ever offering their assistance toward the establishment of international peace  ABU1907

Good news!  Good news!  The Banner of the Great Peace is floating far and wide!   ABU2110

thereby may eternal peace, harmony, welfare, and prosperity be realized on earth  ABU3708

America has the capacity of becoming the standard bearer of international Peace.  ABU2550

and the pavilion of the Most Great Peace may cast its shade upon this dusty earth  AB01657

universal peace is not possible except through the penetration of the Word of God  AB00544

He speaks with rational proofs and arguments about the promotion of universal peace   AB00966

that they may cooperate with all the nations in the establishment of universal peace   ABU1121

It is hoped that through the endeavours of pure souls, the darkness of enmity and dissension may entirely vanish and the light of love and harmony may shine; that the world may become another world and this nether realm may mirror forth the Kingdom of God; that the people of the world may embrace one another, the terrestrial globe may become one homeland, and the different races may be considered as one race; that this conflict and contention may end and the heart-ravishing love of God may become manifest in the assemblage of the world.  AB00242


God willing, the roar of cannons and sound of rifles will cease in the Western world.   AB01576

today the loftiest ideal of all is devotion to the unity of mankind and universal peace.  ABU3150

Then wars and disputes shall cease and over the world will spread the Most Great Peace.   ABU1446

You must become distinguished for removing prejudices and promoting international peace.   ABU2112

you are a seeker of the Most Great Peace and immersed in the ocean of the love of humanity  AB04793

The hosts of angels are standing in battle order; what a joy to those who gain the victory!  AB05408

Among the teachings is universal peace, the details of which are explained in the tablets.   AB02100

service to the Kingdom of Peace which shall soon establish its tent in the center of the world   AB04863

will promote the unity of the world of humanity, will become the herald of the Most Great Peace  AB02496

May the world become a new world; may war and slaughtering cease and the most Great Peace come.   ABU0977

unfurl thou the standard of universal peace, reconciliation, agreement and security among all men  AB04935

Among them is universal peace, which is the immediate remedy for every malady in this illumined age.  AB01534

I beseech God to grant confirmation and success to the world of women, for their desire is universal peace.  AB02500

We hope that all may attain to that which is the cause of the acceptance of souls and the harmony of hearts.  BH05703

Of course, everyone says that peace is desirable but the power to influence and conform is what is required.  ABU2751

raise the banner of the Most Great Peace, and become the cause of love, harmony and unity among all mankind.  AB02205

One hopes that all friends in Germany may drink from this divine cup and raise the banner of universal peace.  AB12198

It is the time for the oneness of the world of humanity, and the day wherein universal peace must be promoted.  ABU3749

according to what has been heard, he is one of the promoters of peace and tranquility and is kind to all people   AB11891

from your class may the lights of the unity of the human world and universal peace shine forth to all directions  AB05656

The oneness of mankind (i.e. unity) ensures peace for the individual as well as for all. Peace guarantees freedom.  ABU3353

the standard of universal peace be hoisted; perfect love and harmony may reign among the races, religions and nations  ABU1357

What of the Peace Congress? It resembles many drunkards gathered together to protest against the drinking of alcohol.   ABU3527

After this journey, the call of the unity of humanity and universal peace must be upraised in the Ottoman territories.  ABU3728

After this war all people are thirsty for universal peace, and the divine teachings are the founder of universal peace   AB04741

But when the spring of universal peace comes, then it will sprout and its importance will become manifest and apparent.   AB05188

As for the sign of the maturity of the world mentioned in the Most Holy Book - one is the achievement of universal peace  AB11349

'Then,' said he, 'all the nations must come together, there must be a league of nations for the government of the world.'  ABU2096

this call for universal peace uproots the foundation of estrangement and transfers all humanity from one plane to another.  AB02442

O how I wish that all of the leaders of the people would spend their energy for unity and peace among all nations and sects!   ABU3391

when this Cause is fully spread in Europe, warfare will be a thing of the past, universal peace will be realized, the oneness of the world of humanity will be recognized   ABU1777


to eliminate all strife and dissension, contention and conflict, battle and war; to propagate the Kingdom of peace and welfare  AB01187

Should the fire of these two be quenched, the world would find peace, and all regions of the earth would be seen as one country.  BH00640

Among the teachings of Baha'u'llah are the unity of the world of humanity and the establishment of universal and eternal peace.   ABU0994

Here the tabernacle of the Most Great Peace will be hoisted and the foundation of the wondrous Divine Order will be established.  ABU2213

Because the objects of this Cause are universal Peace, the oneness of the world of humanity and perfect equality between all mankind.  ABU3018

The song of universal Peace may stir the hearts into cheerfulness, all the nations of the world may enter beneath this uni-colored Tent  AB01571

Praise be to God that thou wert confirmed in establishing reconciliation among the friends and didst bring harmony among the loved ones.  AB10584

the tent under which international Congresses of humanity must be convened in the future and the Flag of Universal Peace waving over it   ABU1791

The Parliament of man will be established; humanity will be spiritual[ized] and the Standard of Peace will be hoisted above every home.   ABU0868

America is the home of the ideals of Peace; its people are peace-loving and its democratic leaders the spreaders of the seeds of Peace.   ABU1515

Therefore wherever we see the lights of peace and welfare we must worship and welcome them, even if they come from any region or language.  ABU2554

"Just as you are exerting yourself for the good of America, so must you expend your energy for the benefit of all the nations of the world"  ABU2324

promoting universal peace. Today this is the greatest foundation of true civilization and the cause of tranquility in the world of creation   AB04352

Today the true duty of a powerful king is to establish a universal peace: for verily it signifies the freedom of all the people of the world.  ABU3109

The body of the human world is sick. Its remedy and healing will be the oneness of the kingdom of humanity. Its life is the Most Great Peace.  ABU0676

that wars and strifes may be eliminated from the world of man; that there be no more wars and strifes and that reconciliation and peace appear  AB05590

In Germany numerous gatherings were held where on one side was raised the banner of universal peace and on the other the blessed flag of Iran.  AB00823

and raise the tabernacle of the unity of the human world at the pole of the world, and the standard of universal peace will wave over all horizons.  AB00612

The purpose of the Baha'is is to raise high the banner of the Most Great Peace and to eliminate the foundation of war and strife from all horizons   AB11862

By what process will this peace on earth be established? Will it come at once after a universal declaration of the Truth? No, it will come about gradually.   ABU2959

The spiritual letter arrived and all that thou hadst requested hath been fulfilled. The letters are enclosed with this letter - deliver them to their owners.  AB04202

Universal Peace is the best panacea for the diseases of the Islamic world... They can save what is left to them through the proclamation of Universal Peace.   ABU2967

Quench ye the fires of war, lift high the banners of peace, work for the oneness of humankind and remember that religion is the channel of love unto all peoples.  AB00397

Be a caller to universal peace, a standard of love among the people, a spreader of the spirit of concord and union among nations and sects   AB03253

you are the cause of fellowship among the friends, the gathering of the loved ones, the guidance of the heedless, and the promotion of the unity of the human world   AB06059

That contention and war may utterly pass away, while peace and reconciliation lift their standard in the midst of the earth and men become enamoured of one another.  ABU1932

This war had to sweep away all remnants of autocracy, absolutism and militarism, and usher in an era of democracy, equality before the law, and international peace.   ABU2686

When the Hague conference was convened and many souls from different nations and governments were present in that gathering delivering speeches about universal peace  ABU1965

that it may serve the realm of moral virtues and foster universal peace; that it may enact laws and establish institutions that would be emulated throughout the world  ABU3761

This world-war has come to an end. We trust that at least it will lead to the preliminaries of Universal Peace, as it is manifestly forewarned in the Blessed Tablets.   AB01375

"that all wars and battles may be abolished from among the nations and powers of the world; that the standard of universal peace or the Most Great Peace shall be raised"  ABU0803

Praise God, this nation at this time is striving with all its energy for International Peace. Rest not from your endeavors until international peace become established.   ABU0607

When they turn their faces toward this Point their hearts will be illuminated with a new light, their complicated relations will be readjusted and their problems solved.   ABU2181

In short, every means that produces war must be checked and the causes that prevent the occurrence of war be advanced;--so that physical conflict may become an impossibility.   ABU0776

The second is the Most Great Peace. Praise be to God! This American democracy manifests capacity, showing forth readiness to become the standard-bearer of the Most Great Peace.  ABU0268

It is my hope that all of us may arise with the greatest power to serve this most important Cause (Universal Peace) and become the means of the welfare of the world of humanity.  ABU1057

Wait! till the end of the war. The New Ideals of Peace which I have nurtured in my mind will be promoted. God willing we shall take another journey and achieve greater victories.   ABU2265

In peace congresses and conferences of nations we raised high the call of the Ancient Beauty and spoke of that which promotes universal peace and advances the unity of the human world   ABU1299

The spirit of the age demands the establishment of universal peace. No power on earth can stand before it. God has purposed that peace must reign in this age, and it will come to pass.  AB09733

After a man has come under the care of the Teachers, after he has perceived and understood the nature of man in its purity, then, having gained discrimination, he learns what virtue is.  ABU0464

He advocated the establishment of universal peace and the oneness of humanity...Until such events cease, humanity will find no rest, the tabernacle of universal peace will not be raised  ABU1617

Another principle is that of Universal Peace and the establishment of the Supreme Court of Arbitration----a court that shall solve all the intricate national and international problems.   AB00374

Among the principles of divine civilization He came to proclaim is the Most Great Peace of mankind...He wrote special Epistles covering these facts to all the kings and rulers of nations.  ABU0275

For the teachings of that Ancient Beloved are the comfort of both worlds and the peace of heart and soul. They are the Most Great Peace and the rest and tranquility of tribes and peoples.   AB04488

The thoughts of universal Peace must be instilled in the minds of all the scholars, - in order that they may become the armies of Peace, the real servants of the body politic - the world.   ABU1650

"The sixth principle is Universal Peace. Humanity must achieve this peace. Until its light illumines the decisions of the leaders and governments of the world, humanity will find no rest."  ABU0521

"Having heard of the numerous organizations for peace and arbitration, and because of My great interest in these subjects, I have come here to advocate the unity and solidarity of humanity."  ABU2293

Such peace is among the requirements of this age, and although all of God's Prophets summoned creation to peace and unity, until this time the world did not have the capacity for it as needed.  ABU1301

All the rulers of the world will then be settled on peaceful thrones amid the glory of a perfect civilization, and all the nations and the peoples will rest in the cradle of peace and comfort.   ABU1720

the dawn of peace and reconciliation has broken. We hope that in future the sun of world-peace shall in accordance with heavenly Teachings, rise in full splendor from the horizon of the world.   AB02641

If so great a remedy would be applied to the sick body of the world, it would certainly be the means of continually and permanently healing its illness by the conciliation of universal moderation.   ABU1720

For example, universal peace was never mentioned, never heard of. After it was revealed in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, this concept emerged. But where did it originate? What is its source? They do not know.   ABU0458

This Convention shall acquire great importance in future, for it is serving the divine Kingdom and the world of mankind. It promulgateth universal peace and layeth the basis of the oneness of mankind.  AB03459

universal peace is at the stage of conception - minds have grasped it slightly, but strong will is needed and likewise the power of execution is essential for it to be realized in the contingent world   AB00586

Now behold they themselves have formed peace societies in this country, there are international associations...in the days of the Blessed Beauty the requirements of the realities of things is universal peace   ABU1298

"O ye companions of Abdul-Baha, display ye an effort, so that ye may make that region (America) the Paradise of ABHA, hoisting the banner of the Most Great Peace and spreading the teachings of the Beauty of ABHA;"  AB02135

and the enlightenment of the world and radiance of creation lie in peace and reconciliation, and success and prosperity... seek the wellbeing of all the people of the world and the comfort and security of humanity.   AB02729

It will upraise the standard of oneness of the world of humanity and make the earth a universal commonwealth. It will be the cause of love between the children of men and create good fellowship between the various creeds.  ABU0354

so that he may find the thoughts of universal peace and the love humankind firmly established in his heart...so that the world of humanity may be delivered from the calamities of fanaticism, war, battle, hate and obstinacy  ABU0938

They seek world peace and the cessation of conflict and strife among humanity. They are well-wishers of all and love both small and great. They desire comfort for the world of creation until it is adorned with the Most Great Peace.   AB00264

The leaders of religions must be the means of binding the hearts together, establishing good-fellowship between the members of the human family, creating a desire for universal Peace and emphasizing more the essential unity of mankind.   ABU2312

Baha'u'llah has proclaimed and promulgated the foundation of international peace. For thousands of years men and nations have gone forth to the battlefield to settle their differences. The cause of this has been ignorance and degeneracy.  ABU0024

That which is, in the first instance, conducive to the order of the world and the progress of nations has been and will continue to be the Most Great Peace, the particulars of which have been recorded in the sacred Scriptures and Tablets.  BH03808


The loved ones of God must be promoters of peace and reconciliation, seeking the comfort of creation and the tranquility and fellowship of friend and stranger alike. They must not consent to harm even an ant, nor cause distress to any soul.  AB00691



It is the establishment of Universal Peace, the establishment of the knowledge that humanity is one family. Think on the conditions of this world of humanity. Nations have become like unto armed camps waiting to be ignited by the combustion of war.   ABU0083

My hope is that soon it will be established as it ought to be and should be. Now it is the beginning of dawn, a little light has appeared, but through the penetration of the Word of God, the reality of universal peace will shine forth like the sun.   AB12110

Practically all the European and American newspapers have been unanimous in declaring that these humane principles will in the long run have a most profound influence in shaping the ideals of brotherhood and establishing the Cause of Universal Peace.  ABU2538

"Unless universal peace is established, the world of humanity will continue in a state of barbarism. For it is a world of struggle for existence, of sensualism, a world of nature. Only when universal peace comes to stay will it become a world of spirit."   ABU0612

I called all to the unity of the human world and invited them to universal peace, peace between nations, peace between religions, peace between races, and peace between regions. I explained the benefits of peace and described the harms of war and conflict.  ABU1848

Make thyself a host of the Lord of Hosts so that thou mayest become the cause of salvation to the people, give sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf and life to the dead. This is the divine bestowal, this is the heavenly grace, this is the divine guidance.  AB00466

"Universal Peace will be established; the Oneness of the World of Humanity will be established. No war will remain. The Teachings of God will be promulgated. One language will be adopted and spread. Misunderstandings will pass away and it will be very good."   ABU0071

The aim, of course is the realization of universal Peace, but with what power or what executive force will you be able to bring it about? In the matter of universal Peace, a great universal Power is necessary, what we may name a "Universal Collective Center."  ABU1222

"The peace of the world must be brought about by international agreement. All nations must agree to disarm simultaneously." "It will be established in this century," he answered, 'It will be universal in the twentieth century. All nations will be forced into it."  ABU0315

It is very easy to come here, camp near this beautiful lake, on these charming hills, far away from everybody and deliver speeches on Universal Peace. These ideals should be spread and put in action over there, (Europe) not here in the world's most peaceful corner.  ABU3424

to promote universal peace, to manifest the unity of humanity, to make human virtues shine forth, to connect the hearts of nations, to remove religious and sectarian prejudice, eliminate gender prejudice, abolish political prejudice, and lift away national prejudice.  ABU0430

the establishment of the Cause of international arbitration... the organization of the Arbitral Court of justice - in order that all the nations of the world may settle before that Court their international disputes and thus remove all the traces of enmity and hatred   ABU2012

Of them one is the Universal Peace. But His Most High, Baha'u'llah, palpably says that the Assembly of Universal Peace must be composed of members from all nations and governments, even from the small states. Had it been done in this way, difficulties would not have arisen.  AB03694

May they find rest in the shade of the tabernacle of human unity and adorn the gathering of universal peace. May they raise high the melody of oneness and unfurl the banner of fellowship. May the world become a supreme paradise and the face of earth be adorned like heaven.   AB02788

It is my hope that the Sea of Love may be set in motion. The Sea of Love is the sea of sanctity. It is the sea of knowledge. It is the sea of peace and reconciliation. When that sea shall be set in motion new results will appear every hour -- results that will be age-abiding.  ABU0792

Through knowledge may you become the cause of love for all on earth and the cause of the Most Great Peace, so that by divine assistance and grace the foundation of war may be destroyed and the foundation of peace and love may be laid, that you may be successful in both worlds.   ABU0439

Be united, O kings of the earth, for thereby will the tempest of discord be stilled amongst you, and your peoples find rest, if ye be of them that comprehend. Should any one among you take up arms against another, rise ye all against him, for this is naught but manifest justice.  BH00347

You have expressed the hope that in this radiant century you may become confirmed in the service of the oneness of the world of humanity and be promoters of Universal Peace. This hope is acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty and this intention is the greatest of intentions.   AB07697

The matter of universal peace is but one of the principles of Baha'u'llah's teachings. Now is the first gleaming of the dawn of universal peace. It is hoped that the sun of universal peace will shine forth with such splendor as to utterly disperse the darkness of war, strife and conflict.  AB02230

When we speak of Universal Peace, we mean that all governments must change their fleets of battleships and dreadnaughts to a mighty fleet of merchant marine, plying the oceans of the world, uniting the distant shores and interweaving the commercial, intellectual and moral forces of mankind.  ABU0566

According to the Divine Teachings, the banner of Universal Peace must be raised by the power of the Word of God. The Oneness of the World of Humanity must be established by the power of the Holy Spirit. No matter how the politicians strive, it will become worse. The power of man is helpless.  ABU0210

This 20th century is the century of the promotion of international Peace, the proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity, the brotherhood of man, the union of religions, the solidarity of various nations and the universalization of all the great ideas, common to the children of man.  ABU1066

A permanent peace in the world of existence can be established only through the power of the spirit. Spirit is the ruler over the body. If the people are emancipated through one spirit, there is not a trace of doubt but that the greatest bond of union and harmony will be established amongst them.   ABU0058

That which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing of all the world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common Faith. This can in no wise be achieved except through the power of a skilled, an all-powerful and inspired Physician.   BH00662

Last night, at the invitation of the International Peace Society, I attended the Grace Methodist Church and gave an extensive talk, presenting clear proofs and decisive evidence for the absolute necessity of international peace, mentioning that Baha'u'llah raised this banner in the Most Great Prison.  AB00340

All men and nations shall make peace. There shall be universal peace amongst governments, universal peace amongst religions, universal peace amongst races, universal peace amongst the denizens of all religions. Today in the world of humanity the most important matter is the question of universal peace.   ABU0225

Thou must awaken them in regards to the Divine Kingdom, for their intentions are good but they do not know that all the powers in the world are incapable of establishing universal peace and promulgating the oneness of the world of man save the power of the Word of God and the breaths of the Holy Spirit.  AB06016

Now Universal Peace and the great Tribunal which are (from) Divine Teachings we hope will be established. It is now the beginning of the dawn of Peace. Some light has spread. But we hope that the Sun of Universal peace may shine so that all the Universe (that is) the world of Creation may become at ease.   AB00565

Fifty years ago Baha'u'llah proclaimed the peace of the nations and oneness of the divine religions, addressing His words to all the kings and rulers of the world in specific Tablets. Therefore, my supreme desire is the unity of the East and West, universal peace and the oneness of the world of humanity.   ABU0057

In this period of its evolution the world of humanity is in danger. Every war is against the good pleasure of the Lord of mankind, for man is the edifice of God and war destroys the divine edifice. If an active, actual peace is brought about, the human world will attain to the utmost serenity and composure.   ABU0108

The people of America are distinguished above the nations of Europe in this glorious aim, namely universal peace, and it is fitting that they take pride over all nations. Especially Mr. William Bryan, Secretary of State of the United States, who has truly arisen with the utmost effort to promote universal peace  AB03095

Before the universal peace is established there will be wards and a general overturning of society. These wars are to warn the people, so that they may learn, if they do not follow the teachings, they will be punished, for the power of the Spirit will be taken from them and they will become as lamps without light.  ABU0075

Among other things He hath said: "Originally mankind was one family, united and compact; later the members of this happy family were divided and sub divided through ignorance and prejudice. Now the time has come again for their final unification. Universal Peace will bring about this long-wished-for consummation"   ABU0600

In all the holy Books, this promised Day is mentioned, wherein wars shall end in peace, tyranny and aggression shall be transformed into justice and benevolence, and oppression and cruelty shall be transmuted into love and fidelity. This is among the assured and inevitable developments of this cycle of Revelation.  AB02150

Universal peace will be established among the nations of the world by international agreement. The greatest catastrophe in the world of humanity today is war. Europe is a storehouse of explosives awaiting a spark. All the European nations are on edge, and a single flame will set on fire the whole of that continent.  ABU0012

our desire is that warfare cease and the melody of peace be raised high, that conflict end and contention vanish, that hatred and animosity be erased, that prejudice and cruelty be eliminated, that opposition and resistance be transformed into cooperation and mutual aid, that discord be cast out and harmony prevail.   AB00721

It is my fond and fervent hope through the favor of God that this present meeting may be instrumental in ushering in the day when the standard of the oneness of the world of humanity shall be held aloft in America. May it be the first real foundation of international peace, having for its object universal service to man.  ABU0260

I have come to America to speak a message of peace and good-will to you. You are a noble nation with a just government. I beg of God that this just and fair land may assist in working for the peace of the world. Let the people of this young and noble nation assist in the great movement for the peace and unity of the world.  ABU2101

America has arisen to spread the teachings of peace, to increase the illumination of humankind and bestow happiness and prosperity upon the children of men. These are the principles and evidences of divine civilization. America is a noble nation, the standard-bearer of peace throughout the world, shedding light to all regions.  ABU0788

Similarly, the dawn of universal peace shall appear and gradually its sun will shine forth, and humanity will find rest and tranquility, and the light of love will illumine East and West. In any case, because of this bloody war all humanity has become weary of war and a wonderful readiness for universal peace has been achieved.   AB02376

Today, the greatest and speediest remedy and the sole effective antidote that the Divine Physician has prescribed for the world's ills is the oneness of humanity, universal peace, the explanation of the principles of the divine religions and the removal of dogmatic imitations and customs which are contrary to science and reason.   ABU1968

It is because we are so preoccupied with the vital concerns that we have raised the cry of the Abha Kingdom in the midmost heart of the world; it is for this reason that we have upraised the tabernacle of Universal Peace. Praise be to God that so many souls are hastening to the shelter of this tabernacle from both the east and the West.  AB03382

War is the most preventable accident... The greatest intelligence of man is being expended in the direction of killing his fellow-man. The discovery of high explosives, perfecting of death-dealing weapons of war, the science of military attack, all this is a wonderful manifestation of human intelligence; but it is in the wrong direction.  ABU0125

The time has come for all to make peace with each other and turn to friendship and truthfulness. Religious prejudice must vanish, racial prejudice must vanish, political prejudice and national prejudice must vanish. We must show perfect love towards one another, for we are servants at one threshold and recipients of the light of one Sun.  ABU0113

If the republics of the Americas assembled and agreed on the question of peace, and if all of them would turn to the [Peace] Assembly at the Hague, most of the powers of Europe would follow suit. But looking at it from another point of view, if an international war breaks out in Europe, international peace will be established more quickly.  ABU1438

We must raise high the banner of universal peace and sound the general call. We must hold discord in abhorrence and count harmony and agreement as our highest aspiration. We must deal with all souls with gentleness and treat all the peoples of the world with kindness. We must make every deprived one prosperous and every hopeless one hopeful.  AB00748

How much better it would have been if these emperors, Kings, Ministers, Representatives and politicians treated each other according to the law of love and affinity. The result of such and similar treatments would have made them very happy, their countries most prosperous and their people advancing daily along the line of arts and industries.  ABU0646

Truly I say many societies are organized in America for the promotion of the thought of peace and universal brotherhood. That country has preceded all the rest in this respect. But all these peace societies organized in the countries of the West, whose aim is the oneness of the realm of humanity, consist of explanations and theories on this subject.  AB03885

Eighthly: Baha'u'llah declared the coming of the Most Great Peace. All the nations and peoples will come under the shadow of the Tent of the Great Peace and Harmony -- that is to say, by general election a Great Board of Arbitration shall be established, to settle all differences and quarrels between the Powers; so that disputes shall not end in war.  ABU0257

Yes. It would have had a marked effect. God willing this excellent idea will become realized, for such representatives and Senators would concentrate all their energies and influence on the side of Peace and conciliation. Their public utterances in the national councils will be listened to respectively and their sincere strivings crowned with success.  ABU1386

Thanks be to God that it has become evident to all that Baha'is are lovers of peace and are kind to all. They adore the world of humanity and deeply love all mankind. They are devoid of all foolish prejudices, be it religious, ethnic or nationalistic. They consider the earth as one country and all its inhabitants as the herd of one kind, divine Shepherd.   AB00805

When we consider outcomes in the world of existence, we find that peace and fellowship are factors of upbuilding and betterment, whereas war and strife are the causes of destruction and disintegration. All created things are expressions of the affinity and cohesion of elementary substances, and nonexistence is the absence of their attraction and agreement.  ABU0186

Now is the time that the Teachings of His Highness Baha'u'llah be promulgated in that continent, so that all the inhabitants may become ready for the establishment of Universal Peace, the Glory of the Oneness of the world of humanity be unfurled and all the nations and tribes may obtain tranquility and composure under the Shade of the Tabernacle of Unity.   AB03155

"Perchance, God willing, Universal Peace may be founded and all the communities and religions of the world may usher under the uni-colored shade of the canopy of the Merciful, that this dark cloud of hate and animosity amongst the religions and nations may be scattered from the horizon of the world and light of love and fellowship may dawn and flood all the regions."  AB04423

May this American democracy be the first nation to establish the foundation of international agreement. May it be the first nation to proclaim the unity of mankind. May it be the first to unfurl the standard of the 'Most Great Peace'... The American people are indeed worthy of being the first to build the tabernacle of the great peace and proclaim the oneness of mankind...  AB11262

Once I wrote to the Persian friends that if the workers of peace conferences do not apply in their own lives what they advocate, they are like those wine sellers who convene and make emphatic speeches regarding the harmfulness of wine and proposing its prohibition. But when they go out of the meeting, they begin again to sell wine and to do what they were doing in the past.  ABU2858

He wrote to Victoria, Queen of Great Britain, the Czar of Russia, the Emperor of Germany, Napoleon III of France and others, inviting them to world unity and peace. Through a heavenly power He was enabled to promulgate these ideals in the Orient. Kings could not withstand Him. They endeavored to extinguish His light but served only to increase its intensity and illumination.   ABU0027

Their purpose is the peace of the world, not war; and love between all, not enmity. They are commanded to obey the government and to wish well for all rulers and subjects. One who holds such a glorious purpose in his heart will not sully himself with these trivial matters. One who seeks universal peace and serves humanity will not interfere in regional conflicts and disputes.  AB01606

Today the United States is leading the forces of good will and fraternity and during the last years her far-sighted Presidents and statesmen have proposed many fundamental Peace plans, the highest ideals of which are embodied in epoch-making treaties entered in good faith with several nations. This in itself is a most hopeful sign and insures ultimate success to the Cause of Peace.  ABU0265

I am very hopeful that he may fulfill my expectation. Because the greatest principle of His Holiness Baha'u'llah is Universal Peace. He proclaimed this principle more that fifty years ago and wrote about it in wonderful epistles to the governments of the world, urging them to come forward and lay the foundation of International Conciliation amongst the religions, nations and races.   ABU0224

Eternal grace is never interrupted, and a fruit of that everlasting grace is universal peace. Rest thou assured that in this era of the spirit, the Kingdom of Peace will raise up its tabernacle on the summits of the world, and the commandments of the Prince of Peace will so dominate the arteries and nerves of every people as to draw into His sheltering shade all the nations on earth.  AB05295

As Americans are removed from most political difficulties they live at ease in isolation and, compared to most other regions, are more desirous of peace and harmony, so they can succeed in bringing about universal peace provided they arise as they should and the nation and government put forth strenuous efforts and, through spiritual power, carry out the divine teachings and principles.  ABU1440

"This is indeed the cycle of Love! This is the dispensation of Amity! This is the age of friendliness! This is the century of Light! This is the era of forgiveness! This is the period of universal toleration! This is the time of the unity of religions! This is the day of spiritual good-fellowship! This is the hour of international relation and kindly association with all the children of men!"  ABU0132

Whatever has issued from the Supreme Pen will surely become manifest and evident, but humanity as a whole is not yet ready for this blessing. Gradually, this heavenly gift will dawn from the horizon of spirit and consciousness, and when this luminous ray reaches its zenith in the exalted firmament, the intense darkness will vanish and the divine lights of unity will encompass the earth's expanse.   AB00220

These delegates who have gathered in the Peace Conference are like merchants. Each strives to compete for victory with his rival. Even if peace were established, it would be but temporal. Years ago there was an international peace agreement, but wars have continued notwithstanding. If such conferences were endowed with the power to establish an enduring peace, the world would have been at rest long ago.  ABU0745

Universal peace will raise its pavilion in the midmost heart of creation and the blessed Tree of Life will so grow and flourish as to stretch its sheltering shade over the East and the West. Strong and weak, rich and poor, contending kindreds and hostile nations--which are like the wolf and the lamb, the leopard and kid, the lion and the calf--will treat one another with the utmost love, unity, justice and equity.   AB00091

The most momentous question of this day is international peace and arbitration, and universal peace is impossible without universal suffrage. Children are educated by the women. The mother bears the troubles and anxieties of rearing the child, undergoes the ordeal of its birth and training. Therefore, it is most difficult for mothers to send to the battlefield those upon whom they have lavished such love and care.  ABU0098

If you make such an effort, the East and West of the world will embrace each other, the foundation of hatred and enmity will be utterly destroyed, heavenly love will spread, spiritual fellowship will be attained, the unity of humankind will become manifest, the Most Great Peace will be realized, all humanity will mingle with one another in utmost affection, and both earthly happiness and heavenly happiness will be attained.  ABU0264

A Supreme Tribunal shall be established by the peoples and Governments of every nation, composed of members elected from each country and Government. The members of this Great Council shall assemble in unity. All disputes of an international character shall be submitted to this Court, its work being to arrange by arbitration everything which otherwise would be a cause of war. The mission of this Tribunal would be to prevent war.  ABU0705

For the world of Humanity has acquired, as a result of this great carnage a great capacity for the propagation of Universal Peace. Ears are longing to hearken to the call of the oneness of the world of Humanity, to Universal Reconciliation, and to the rejection of ignorant prejudices. In fine, if all the friends of God engage in the promulgation of Heavenly Teachings, the establishment of Universal Peace shall be a foregone conclusion.  AB01489

Your present effort will bring most great results in the future. What you have written is true. The first plan "the alliance of Humanity for the attainment of Universal Peace" did not bring any result: for the question of Universal Peace is one Teaching of the Teachings of His Holiness Baha'ollah, It must be along the Principles of the Bahais and not the Principles of the Bahais to be along (or consider as of secondary importance to) the question of Universal Peace.  AB00376

He bore all this that He might purify the world, and deck it out with the tender mercies of the Lord God; that He might set it at rest; that conflict and aggression might be put to flight, the lance and the keen blade be exchanged for loving fellowship, malevolence and war turn into safety and gentleness and love, that battlefields of hate and wrath should become gardens of delight, and places where once the blood-drenched armies clashed, be fragrant pleasure grounds.  AB00065

I have come to America to promote universal peace and the unity of humankind, not for sightseeing and tourism... peace is today the greatest matter in the human world. There is no matter more important than it. It is the cause of comfort for the world of creation. It is the cause of happiness for humankind. It is the cause of fellowship among all created things. It is the cause of connection between East and West. It is the cause of true freedom and is the greatest divine gift.  ABU0141

The matter of peace, in the religion of Baha'u'llah, is a firm command and a religious obligation. It is not the resolution of a congress or the edict of a committee of some nation or country influenced by selfish desires and subject to amendments. Because it is a fundamental principle, it will inevitably come to pass. As the denial of Christ and opposition to Him are considered infidelity in religious terminology, the rejection of peace has the same status in the religion of Baha'u'llah.  ABU1440

May the American people and their government unite in their efforts in order that this light may dawn from this point and spread to all regions, for this is one of the greatest bestowals of God. In order that America may avail herself of this opportunity, I beg that you strive and pray with heart and soul, devoting all your energies to this end: that the banner of international peace may be upraised here and that this democracy may be the cause of the cessation of warfare in all other countries.   ABU0901

Our Lord said that the Blessed Perfection had revealed secretly in a Tablet some words about Universal Peace. And also, just before His Ascension, He had revealed another Tablet about the Universal Peace which should prevail between all the peoples of the world. We now see the effect of these words spoken by the Blessed Perfection, in the fact that the Czar of Russia has called all nations to a Peace Conference, and in the various societies and organizations for promoting peace which are now in this world.  ABU0378

The details of the Peace Conference of Nations, which is to be convened under your presidency, were observed in the newspapers of the East and West, and the utmost joy and gladness was attained that, praise be to God, the Peace Conference of Nations is being established under the presidency of such an illustrious person. Today in the world of existence there is no matter greater than this, for it is the cause of the comfort of creation, the tranquility of all nations and governments, and the felicity of every human being.  AB00637

And forty years ago in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, He commanded universal fellowship and invited all governments to universal peace, stating that the boundaries of all nations should be determined through an international assembly which no nation could transgress, and if a dispute arose between two nations, it would be adjudicated in the international assembly and resolved like disputes between individuals. Should one party rebel, all nations would rise against it. He wrote that this universal peace would be the cause of rest for the world of creation.  AB01148

The second teaching of Baha'u'llah was universal peace, that all nations of the world must establish relations with one another and make peace, and establish a universal tribunal. In that tribunal, members should be from all countries. These members should be elected by national assemblies, an upper house should be organized, and governments should assist in electing the members. All people of the world should have representatives. Any international issues that arise should be referred to that tribunal, and that universal tribunal should resolve them.   ABU1080

It is incumbent upon the Sovereigns of the world -- may God assist them -- unitedly to hold fast unto this Peace, which is the chief instrument for the protection of all mankind. It is Our hope that they will arise to achieve what will be conducive to the well-being of man. It is their duty to convene an all-inclusive assembly, which either they themselves or their ministers will attend, and to enforce whatever measures are required to establish unity and concord amongst men. They must put away the weapons of war, and turn to the instruments of universal reconstruction.  BH00005

O people! Baha'u'llah laid the foundation of universal peace fifty years ago. He even addressed Epistles to the kings wherein He declared that war could destroy the foundation of the world of humanity, that peace was conducive to everlasting life and that dire peril awaited mankind. Now is the dawn of universal peace, and the first streaks of its light are beginning to appear. We earnestly hope that its effulgent orb may shine forth and flood the East and the West with its radiance. The establishment of universal peace is not possible save through the power of the Word of God.  AB00945

Never did anyone imagine that humanity would yearn for divine unity, that the banner of universal peace would be raised at the pole of the horizons, and likewise with the other divine teachings--it was never thought possible. Now the world's great ones and people of influence are striving with utmost effort to implement the divine teachings. Yet this is only the beginning dawn; after this dawn comes the true morning, and after morning the rising of the Sun of Truth. Then will universal peace pitch its tent at the pole of the horizons, and all divine teachings will be implemented.  AB00114

For example, the question of universal peace, about which Baha'u'llah says that the Supreme Tribunal must be established: although the League of Nations has been brought into existence, yet it is incapable of establishing universal peace. But the Supreme Tribunal which Baha'u'llah has described will fulfil this sacred task with the utmost might and power. And His plan is this: that the national assemblies of each country and nation--that is to say parliaments--should elect two or three persons who are the choicest of that nation, and are well informed concerning international laws and the relations between governments and aware of the essential needs of the world of humanity in this day.  AB00016

True civilization will unfurl its banner in the midmost heart of the world whenever a certain number of its distinguished and high-minded sovereigns -- the shining exemplars of devotion and determination -- shall, for the good and happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and clear vision, to establish the Cause of Universal Peace. They must make the Cause of Peace the object of general consultation, and seek by every means in their power to establish a Union of the nations of the world. They must conclude a binding treaty and establish a covenant, the provisions of which shall be sound, inviolable and definite. They must proclaim it to all the world and obtain for it the sanction of all the human race.  AB00004

Now I have come to Europe. Praise be to God that in this city a peace conference has formed and this is a great cause of joy that in this important center such a conference is established between representatives of nations. Therefore I hope that the lights of universal peace will shine and this noble nation and just government will succeed in establishing here this mighty foundation of universal peace which is the basis of the comfort of humanity. May the Balkan War come to an end and the rights of both sides be preserved and protected, otherwise its spark will engulf the world, especially Europe which is like an ammunition depot full of inflammatory materials waiting for one spark to turn Europe upside down. Thus there remains no solution except universal peace. Today this is the greatest of matters.  ABU0729

The objective aims are the oneness of the world of humanity  ABU2627

O people of the earth! Make not the religion of God a cause of variance among you. Verily of a truth, it was revealed for the unifying of the whole world. BH11456

O people! Be ye united in the Cause of God - this is better for you   BH02486

And this is that, I hope, all people be of one creed and all nations as one.   ABU2353

Their turn shall come; perhaps an effort will be made to unite their various peoples.  ABU3728

This realm is the arena of the Kingdom, and this lordship is the dominion of the Realm of Might.  AB09930

serving the unity of the human world and becoming the cause of love and kindness among all peoples  AB12466

summon all men to the Standard of Universal Peace, Brotherhood, divine Civilization and spirituality   ABU2351

"Fifty years ago BAHA'O'LLAH wrote that there must be a league of nations to establish universal peace."   ABU0612

the East and the West, which include in their arms the five continents of the globe, may embrace each other   ABU2072

It is the time for the oneness of the world of humanity, and the day wherein universal peace must be promoted.  ABU3749

Soon East and West will embrace like two lovers...All peoples of the world become friends and embrace each other.   AB00721

This is the day of universal peace, of universal brotherhood, of a universal language and of the union of all religions.   ABU2536

I hope that the connecting power of love of the Kingdom of God will unite all the nations of the world. This is Our hope.   ABU1866

Verily, the words which have descended from the heaven of the Will of God are the source of unity and harmony for the world.  BH11361

the workers for the cause of the oneness of the world of humanity, the spreaders of heavenly love amongst the children of men   ABU1561

This kind of difference must be eliminated so that through spiritual power the different parties and nations may come under the shadow of one Word  ABU2135

That which has been the cause of the unity of the world and its peoples has been revealed and sent down from the Most Exalted Pen in various Tablets  BH06112

May it lay a foundation for the unity of mankind. May it promote the concept of one homeland, of one nation and of the basic unity of all religions.  AB12398

I counsel them that they may day by day strengthen the bond of love and amity to this end--that they may become the sympathetic embodiment of one nation.  ABU1027

"The world is one home. There is no glory for one who loves his country, but for one who loves the world.' We are free and apart from all these questions."  ABU0913

"The light of the Oneness of the world of humanity, equal rights and divine morals shall spread from this country to other countries and shall illumine the world."  ABU2137

War shall cease between nations, and by the will of God the Most Great Peace shall come; the world will be seen as a new world, and all men shall live as brothers.  ABU1120

that perchance the world-consuming sun of ignorant fanaticism may be extinguished and the East and West of the world may become connected and united in all respects  BH03486

peace and amity, justice and equity, the progress of humankind, advancement in the degrees of illumination, the proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity  AB10664

The five continents of the world will become as one, its diverse nations will become one nation, the earth will become one homeland, and the human race will become one people.   AB00091

The intention is that all might be illumined by the light of unity and associate with one another in love and harmony, so that the whole earth may be regarded as one country and one land.   BH10983

the letter that this servant hath written to the East and the West regarding the benefits and profits of the unification of the world and the unity and concord of all its peoples and nations.  AB02538

We have enjoined upon mankind the Most Great Peace that the world and its people might find rest, but they cast the command of God behind their backs and followed the ways of the corrupt ones.   BH06227

What a unity and concord! Today the inhabitants of the world must be engaged generally in praising the Word of God, which has bestowed such a bounty and has established such a harmony and affiliation  AB05981

It is a very happy evening, God willing, in the same way that we have met together, all the world of humanity may gather together; all become cordial, all become friendly, all may associate together in utmost love.  ABU1575

We must renounce every thing in the path of the Beloved and with a New Melody summon mankind to usher under the Canopy of Universal brotherhood and fellowship and advance toward the Kingdom of Peace and reconciliation.   ABU1165

He should know himself as a servant of human society of all the countries in the world. He should see God as the heavenly father and all the servants, as his children, counting all the nations, parties and sects as one family.  ABU0938

The greatest need of this century is universal peace. Baha'u'llah has instituted it. The most urgent need of human kind is the declaration of the oneness of the world of humanity, this is the first principle of the Bahai Teachings.  ABU0046

So many different people--those who are fierce, and who hold animosity toward each other, will be gathered in union and harmony under one tent, to lay the foundation which will be the cause of harmony and union of all the creatures.  ABU0075

the pavilion of the unity of the human world will be erected at the pole of the earth. Paris and England will embrace the Caucasus and Tiflis, Africa and America will share in the tumult and fervor, and Turk and Tajik will become intimate companions.   AB01576

It is clear and evident to the daysprings of justice and the dawning-places of equity that this Wronged One hath desired, through the power of the Kingdom, to remove strife, conflict, contention, discord and division from among the peoples of the world.  BH05904

We hope through the favors of the Lord that the banner of universal peace will be raised and the tent of the unity of the human world will be pitched at the pole of possibility. The peoples of the world will become one people, and the earth one homeland.  AB00925

You can best serve your country if you strive, in your capacity as a citizen of the world, to assist in the eventual application of the principle of federalism, underlying the government of your own country, to the relationships now existing between the peoples and nations of the world. ABU3361

I in the East, and you in the West, let us try with heart and soul that unity may dwell in the world, that all the peoples may become one people, and that the whole surface of the earth may be like one country -- for the Sun of Truth shines on all alike.  ABU0503

"that all mankind may be united with each other; that all wars and battles may be abolished from among the nations and powers of the world; that the standard of universal peace or the Most Great Peace shall be raised; that estrangement may cease entirely"  ABU0803

We have neither enmity with any party nor friendship with other parties. Our path is to walk the straight way and proceed upon the right path. In this transient world, we seek to raise the banner of human unity and pursue universal agreement, unity, and peace.  AB07331

The Kingdom of God was established in the world of existence through the power of the Word of God and the confirmation of the Holy Spirit, and the lights of peace and reconciliation dawned forth from the Sun of Truth. Ere long will its rays illumine both East and West.  AB03464

He proclaimed that Universal Peace must become a fact between the religions and between the various nations. Those people and those nations who hearken sincerely to the Teachings of Baha'u'llah are today living together with the utmost spirit of love and spiritual grace.  ABU0081

The chief objects of Green Acre conferences must be the furtherance of universal peace, investigation of reality, brotherhood, tolerance, sympathy to all mankind, the cultivation of a better understanding between the nations of the world, the elimination of dogmas and superficialities, the illumination of the hearts with the light of truth, mutual assistance and co-operation, social service, the study of the fundamental principles of all religions and their comparative co-ordination.   ABU0925

Every heart will then be refreshed, all eyes will be opened, the most wonderful power will be given, the happiness of humanity will be assured. This will be the paradise which is to come on earth, when all mankind will be gathered together under the tent of unity in the Kingdom of Glory.  ABU0937

God says in the great Qur'an: A day will come wherein the lights of unity will enlighten all the world. The earth will be irradiated with the light of its Lord. In other words, the earth will become illumined with the light of God. That light is the light of unity.  AB01552

They must exert themselves to bring about the Oneness of the world of humanity...so that in the world of humanity divine illumination be spread, the Banner of Universal Peace be upraised, and the Tabernacle of the Oneness of the world of humanity be pitched in the very center of this globe.  ABU2277

"It is necessary for individuals to become as good bricks, to eradicate from themselves race and religious hatred, greed and a limited patriotism, so that, whether they find themselves guiding the government, or founding a home, the result of their efforts may be peace and prosperity, love and happiness."  ABU0516

This nation can be blessed through being an instrumentality in establishing the Balkans Peace. Then these fighting nations shall become friendly and these dark clouds of enmity that have encircled the horizon of Balkans shall be removed. The light of Peace shall shine forth, darkness and enmity shall vanish.  ABU1911

O people! O people! Are you not awake? Are you unconscious of the danger which is threatening you? Are you unaware of the evils of war? Are you so heedless as regards to your future? O men! O women! Arise ye, show ye an effort, strive ye; perchance you may become able to extinguish this world-consuming fire!  ABU0929


The time has come when all mankind shall be united, when all races shall be loyal to one fatherland, all religions become one religion, and racial and religious bias pass away. It is a day in which the oneness of humankind shall uplift its standard and international peace, like the true morning, flood the world with its light.   ABU0149

That day, that millennial day, foretold by prophets and seers, that day when, it is said, the wolf and the lamb shall drink from the same fountain, the lion and the deer shall feed in the same pasture. The meaning of this holy word is that hostile races, warring nations, differing religions, shall become united in the spirit of love.  ABU0156

The unity of mankind was not realize, perfect connection was not produced amongst mankind, for there was no means for this; they could not meet each other. But in the Cause of the Blessed Perfection, Baha'u'llah, the greatest preparations are in evidence. The means for the unity and harmony of mankind is found in the most complete way.  ABU0838

Now you must, with a heavenly power, show forth such an effort and such zeal that through this power of the Kingdom you may annihilate entirely this hostility and rancor, and let all the nations become friends to each other, and give a real unity to all the different religions, so that fighting and war shall be erased from among the people.  ABU2078

Fifty years ago Baha'u'llah declared the necessity of peace among the nations and the reality of reconciliation between the religions of the world. He announced that the fundamental basis of all religion is one...According to His teachings if religious belief proves to be the cause of discord and dissension, its absence would be preferable.   ABU0008

The Cause of God is the only panacea which will heal for all time to come the social, economic and political diseases of mankind. The revelation of Baha'o'llah is the tree which will send its outstretched branched to all the countries and under its cool shade all the religious sects will gather there to fraternize and associate with one another.   ABU1247

Consider how Jesus Christ united the divergent peoples, sects and denominations of the early days. In Persia Baha'u'llah was able to unite people of varying thought, creed and denomination. The inhabitants of that country were Christians, Muslims, Jews, Zoroastrians and a great variety of subdivided forms and beliefs together with racial distinctions.   ABU0137

Today the human world is in need of a great power by which these glorious principles and purposes may be executed. The cause of peace is a very great cause; it is the Cause of God, and all the forces of the world are opposed to it. Governments, for instance, consider militarism as the step to human progress, that division among men and nations is the cause of patriotism and honor.  ABU0041

In such a time of amusement and play, to be in the utmost state of sanctity and holiness - how radiant that would be then. Like a candle it would shine. Why? All people are occupied with amusements, stained with carnal desires. A soul there enkindled with the fire of God's love, attracted to holy fragrances, sanctified and purified from all defilements - how radiant that would be.  ABU0357


The time has passed when humanity could find happiness through the differences of peoples and nations. Now this is the luminous century and the age of the All-Merciful. Realities have cast aside their veils, and the prejudicial delusions have become clear and manifest, showing that they have ever been the cause of the destruction of the earth. Save through amity and unity and the oneness of mankind, happiness for humanity is impossible.  AB12107

The bonds of friendship and unity between the children of men must be strengthened, and religious differences and racial strife must be eliminated - what fault can be found in these things?... Yea, thus shall it be: these fruitless contentions, these destructive wars, shall all pass away, and the Most Great Peace shall be established in their stead... These contentions and wars and bloodshed and differences must cease, and all people must live together as one family.  BHU0015

The purpose of the Baha'is is to raise high the banner of the Most Great Peace and to eliminate the foundation of war and strife from all horizons, to bring all different nations and peoples under the shade of God's unified tabernacle, and to erase racial, national, religious, sectarian and political prejudices from the tablet of the world - so that all regions become one region, all races become one race, and all nations become one nation, until the world of creation finds rest.   AB11862

The republic of men become the manifestors of the bounty of the most glorious Lord; the East and the West be brought nearer together; and that the Turk and Tajik, Iran and America, India and Arabia, Japan and Persia, China and Germany; in brief, all the nations and peoples of the world become as one soul and one spirit, in order that strife and warfare be entirely removed and the rancor and hostility disappear so that all become as the waves of one ocean, the drops of one sea, the flowers of one rose-garden, the trees of one orchard, the grains of one harvest and the plants of one meadow.  AB00490

Praised be the Blessed Beauty and the Greatest Name for He hath conferred such connection and harmony unto the human race, and established such a mighty foundation, and promoted such a sublime aspiration, and raised aloft such a tabernacle in the midmost heart of the world that its results have caused the various nations of the earth to be united and devoted to one another, and for the whole world to become as one country and its numerous lands to become as one common fatherland, and for all the different governments to join together in unity and harmony, so that the roots of oppression are eradicated and the foundations of war, conflict, pillage and plunder, hatred and hostility are destroyed.  AB11827

Note then: if every clan, tribe, community, every nation, country, territory on earth should come together under the single-hued pavilion of the oneness of mankind, and by the dazzling rays of the Sun of Truth should proclaim the universality of man; if they should cause all nations and all creeds to open wide their arms to one another, establish a World Council, and proceed to bind the members of society one to another by strong mutual ties, what would happen then? There is no doubt whatsoever that the divine Beloved, in all His endearing beauty, and with Him a massive host of heavenly confirmations and human blessings and bestowals, would appear in His full glory before the assemblage of the world.  AB00175
He continued to reveal divine teachings and wrote numerous tablets and books, proclaiming the principles of the oneness of humanity, universal peace, and the unity of religion. From His prison cell, He addressed letters to the kings and rulers of the world, calling them to justice and urging them to establish universal peace.  ABU3765
 
