
Today the foundation of all affairs has been and is service to God's Cause, and it is best for His loved ones in every land to engage in outward affairs, for they can thus convey a word of truth to people or render some service to the friends.  BH00510

for craft is obligatory and required   AB11739

occupy yourself with trade and business   AB04007

Work is intended to give man self-assurance and dignity  ABU3440

At present you should occupy yourself with some work.  AB08430

We have enjoined upon all to engage in some occupation.  BH10890

Devotion to and love for one's vocation accomplishes miracles.  ABU3634

Everyone should have some trade, or art or profession, be he rich or poor   ABU2418

it is obligatory for every soul to engage in a profession, agriculture, or craft  BH11762

Now attend to your craft and apply effort. God willing, work will become organized   AB04743

You should learn a trade, for according to divine commandments every soul must learn a trade.  AB11058

"from the heaven of divine will the command to engage in craft and profession has been revealed"   BH08896

You must, by whatever means possible, keep the shop going and engage in trade and commerce with the utmost endeavor.  AB11365

We have ordained the pursuit of a profession for every soul - thus hath the matter been decreed in a preserved Tablet.   BH07353

Be confident in the grace of the All-Merciful, and engage in thy trade and profession in obedience to the command of thy Chosen Lord.  AB09366

"The True One, exalted be His glory, has loved and continues to love the craftsman. He should surely engage in a craft - this is beloved and acceptable."  BH03267

In thy craft, strive to achieve the utmost precision, that it may attain the highest refinement and perfection, for excellence in all degrees is beloved.  AB09242

Blessed is he who is engaged in a craft. Today, whosoever earneth his livelihood through his craft or profession is accounted among those who are nigh unto God  BH10106

In the Cause of Baha'u'llah it is obligatory for the individual to engage in a trade or profession. For instance, I know mat weaving and you know another trade.  ABU2450

You can engage in work of an uplifting kind- the kind that will tend to lift one out of the sense world into the world of morality not the kind that is degrading.   ABU2483

One of the names of God is the Fashioner, and He has always loved and continues to love craftsmanship. Therefore, whoever among His servants manifests this name is beloved in the presence of the Wronged One.  BH02575

He teaches that it is incumbent upon all mankind to become fitted for some useful trade, craft or profession by which subsistence may be assured, and this efficiency is to be considered as an act of worship.   ABU0038

Blessed is he who in these divine days is engaged in a handicraft. This is a bounty from God, for in this Most Great Revelation engagement in that which preventeth man from expectation is acceptable before God.  BH10133

The purpose is that the Hands of the Cause of God should place him in school, that he may study daily from morning until noon to learn reading and writing, and from noon until near sunset engage in acquiring a trade.  AB11395

All have been commanded to occupy themselves with some affair; therefore that honorable one should engage in some occupation, and blessings shall descend from the heaven of the bounty of thy Lord, the All-Bountiful, the Enriching, the Mighty, the Merciful.   BH00871

Similarly a young man desiring to lay a good foundation for his later life must devote his first few years to the study of his chosen profession and forget all pleasures and sports which divert him from accomplishing his main purpose. This is success and prosperity.  ABU2391

You must certainly strive to arrange some work for him so that he may pass his days in comfort and assurance. If a printing press is organized, employ him there, and if there is no printing press, arrange some other work for him. He deserves consideration and assistance.   AB03223

Every person in this world is occupied with some pursuit and familiar with some matter. One charges forth in the political arena, another arranges battle formations, another hastens to the field of commerce and industry, and yet another strives mightily to amass worldly ornaments.   AB05669

humans must be healthy and occupied in order to be able to serve humanity. If due to physical weakness and unemployment one does not commit injustice against anyone, this is not a sign of perfection. Rather, perfection lies in having capability and occupation yet not committing injustice.  ABU0481

We have commanded all to occupy themselves with some business or profession. Blessed is the soul that beareth a burden and is not himself a burden unto others. They should engage in crafts and trades; a single coin earned thereby is, in the sight of God, more beloved than a treasure amassed by unrighteous means and made ready.   BH00529

Ye are the trees of My garden; ye must give forth goodly and wondrous fruits, that ye yourselves and others may profit therefrom. Thus it is incumbent on every one to engage in crafts and professions, for therein lies the secret of wealth, O men of understanding! For results depend upon means, and the grace of God shall be all-sufficient unto you.  BH00113

Stations of sanctification, detachment, acceptance, nearness and attainment unto His presence are not, and never shall be, incompatible with outward affairs. In this Most Great Revelation, all are commanded to engage in crafts, trades and professions, placing their trust in God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. This commandment hath been emphatically revealed in the Tablets.  BH00751

In the Kitab-i-Aqdas, all have been commanded to engage in an occupation. Today, everyone who claims to love God must be engaged in some work. Whoever you observe to be idle, you should, through kind counsels and good advice, encourage them to work and earn. The good of all souls lies in this, and since it has been revealed by the Supreme Pen, its fruits will surely become manifest.   BH00278

Attend to your affairs, for God loves not a servant who walks the earth without engaging in some occupation. He has refused to cause things to happen except through their means, and thus has it been ordained in the Tablets of mighty preservation. Say: O servants of the All-Merciful! Engage yourselves in some occupation or craft. Thus has God willed in this most impregnable and wondrous Revelation.  BH00949

No sooner the children have laid the foundation of their theoretic and primary knowledge in the school-rooms they must be sent to the workshops to learn the applied and practical sciences. In short, the explicit command of Baha'u'llah is that every child, whether rich or poor, aristocrat or democrat, high or low must learn a trade, an art or a craft. This law must be incorporated in the constitution of every school.  ABU0106

It is enjoined upon every one of you to engage in some form of occupation, such as crafts, trades and the like. We have graciously exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of worship unto God, the True One. Ponder ye in your hearts the grace and the blessings of God and render thanks unto Him at eventide and at dawn. Waste not your time in idleness and sloth. Occupy yourselves with that which profiteth yourselves and others.   BH00568

Today it is incumbent upon everyone to hold fast to that which causes the steadfastness and exaltation of God's Cause. And now, they had written that his honor Aqa Muhammad-Rida, upon him be 95 [Baha'u'llah], is engaged in a trade in the Land of ?a. This matter is adorned with the ornament of divine acceptance, for all are commanded in this day to pursue a craft, profession or trade, and the work of craftsmen is accounted as worship in God's Book.   BH00550

All the Baha'i children must learn a trade or manual profession. This must be aside from their literary education. The study of foreign languages, such as English, French, German etc must be coupled with the study of an art, craft or profession. Learn to do something in this world, no matter how small it may be. it is better to be a good carpenter, a fine shoemaker, a skillful physician, an accomplished engineer, an excellent gardener, a brilliant artist, a superior teacher, an inspired writer than to be an angel in heaven with nothing to do but to sing hallelujah and play on golden harp.  ABU0510

Share your time with God. Spend half of the day in search of livelihood, guaranteeing your material life and dignified appearance, and dedicate the other half in the acquisition of moral virtues and service at the threshold of God  ABU3735

Say: If ye desire to reflect upon God's handiwork, then repair ye to those places where crystal or glass is fashioned, and observe how God transformeth stone into water, and then water into ice. Thus doth God set forth similitudes in the Mother Book, that ye might reflect.  BB00004
