
Q. Did Kurratu’l Ayn habitually discard the veil after that meeting? Abdu'l-Baha: No. In the presence of some of the more intimate friends who used to visit her, she would unveil but not in public.  ABU3488

Sometimes the veil is external - once you tear it away it is removed. But sometimes the veil comes from within the human being himself. No matter how many times you tear it down, he weaves it again - it's no use.  ABU2347

Show utmost love and kindness to his respected sister and tell her that regarding the veil, what flowed from the Pen of the Covenant you now see was pure wisdom, and the Yahya'is were making the removal of the veil the greatest means of corruption.  AB08760

This rigid veiling is unspeakable. Qurratu'l-Ayn tore off her veils and went forth fearlessly. She was like a lioness. Her action caused a great turmoil throughout the land of Persia. So excessive and compulsory is the requirement for veiling in the East that the people in the West have no idea of the excitement and indignation produced by the appearance of an unveiled woman. Qurratu'l-Ayn lost all thought of herself and was unconscious of fear in her attraction to God.   ABU0086


You had asked about covering and veiling. Now, covering and veiling in every country must be according to what is suitable for that country's conditions, so that it does not cause commotion and upheaval. There is no doubt that in Iran, according to the requirements of the time, the face must be hidden, but in America a light veil suffices. If someone were to observe Iranian-style covering and veiling there, children would chase them in the streets and markets, and might even stone them. Therefore, now in each place one must act according to the requirements of the time so that no alarm and distress arises and no mischief and corruption occurs, until such time as the Cause of God is proclaimed. Then all will become uniform and the Law will appear in utmost perfection, and the extremes of East and West will disappear. AB03342

Regarding the matter of absence of veiling between the handmaidens of the Most Merciful, no one has mentioned anything to me about it, but I have heard that sometimes there are discussions about this matter among the friends, though the discussions are brief and they differ in opinion about this matter  AB04972

As for the matter of the veil, such important issues must be referred to 'Abdu'l-Baha. There is no more important matter than this in Iran at present. America and Europe have different requirements, and Tehran now has different requirements. All of Iran must follow the Holy Land in such matters, as this accords with wisdom.  AB06692

As in the question of the veil, nothing should be done contrary to wisdom. You need to be calm and composed, so that the work will proceed with wisdom, otherwise there will be such chaos that ye will leave everything and run away.   AB00677


With a firm heart, a steadfast step and an eloquent tongue arise to spread the Word of God and say: O God, although I am sitting concealed behind the screen of chastity and am restricted by the veil and exigencies of modesty, my cherished hope is to raise the banner of service and to become a maidservant at Thy Holy Threshold; to ride on a charger and penetrate the army of the ignorant, defeat the mighty regiments and subvert the foundations of error and violation.  AB03615

Tahirih sent a request to call upon Us. We were surprised at her message, and were at a loss as to what We should reply. Suddenly We saw her at the door, her face unveiled before Us. How well has Mirza Aqa Jan commented upon that incident. 'The face of Fatimih,' he said, 'must needs be revealed on the Day of Judgment and appear unveiled before the eyes of men. At that moment the voice of the Unseen shall be heard saying: Turn your eyes away from that which ye have seen.'  BHU0003

In this Dispensation the veil is stricter than before. In the Islamic Dispensation, the veil had become such that women could not walk in the streets and bazaars - they were like purchased slaves. Therefore, just so they could engage in work and acquire knowledge, in every Dispensation showing hands and face was permitted. But in these days there is no requirement for such matters, and perhaps someday the Spiritual Assembly will permit something like the Iranian women's head covering that covers all four sides of the face so that no non-related man can see their hair - not like Western women who go out with uncovered heads, with head and neck and half their arms exposed. The veil in this Dispensation is such that if there is a woman alone in a house, no one can enter that house without the owner present, unless one of the woman's relatives is present there, like a son or daughter or brother. The intention is that if a woman is alone in the house, an unrelated man must not enter.  ABU1837


The veil of women prevents education and learning. The religious scholars went to extremes in this matter, even considering it impermissible to hear women's voices. Yet it is established that Aisha, who was the consort of the Prophet, would sit and people would ask her questions which she would answer. During the circumambulation of the Ka'bah she called out "No face covering and no veil!" And Sakinah, daughter of Imam Husayn, would sit while poets would recite poetry in her presence and make her their judge. So it was permissible. Certainly if one can be unveiled among a hundred thousand pilgrims, by greater reason it should be permissible in other situations. Furthermore, hands and face are not included in the veil - rather the hair and other parts should be covered. This was how it was in the early period, but later they added to it to the point where they imprisoned women and prevented them from education and learning, bringing them to the utmost degradation. This is why Eastern women have remained backward. Chastity is necessary and self-control is very important, but not to the degree that it prevents education and learning, for the Law of God establishes virtues - they should not be prevented from acquiring virtues. ABU1604
