performed the visitation on your behalf   AB04439

[The entire text is a Tablet of Visitation]   AB01364

[This entire text is a visitation tablet for the Bab]   BH01570

[The entire text is a visitation prayer for a martyr]   AB05032

Complete prayer text as a visitation tablet for Imam Husayn   BB00574

entire final section is a formal visitation prayer for a martyr   AB01138

[The entire tablet is a visitation tablet for a martyred believer]   AB06459

Blessed is he who visits My Name Husayn...who says before the tomb...  BH03672

[The entire text is a visitation prayer for the mother of Ibn-i-Abhar]  AB11747

[The entire text is a visitation tablet for the martyr Mulla Husayn Ardikani]  AB01371

It behooveth him who visiteth thee to say before thy tomb: "My God, my God!..."   BH02191

With weeping eyes, we collectively recited the Visitation Tablet on your behalf.  AB04711

explicitly identified as a "visitation prayer" (ziyarat) for Mirza Isma'il Khayyat   AB01658

[The entire text is a Tablet of Visitation revealed in honor of Mirza 'Ali-Muhammad]  BH02678

[The entire text constitutes a Visitation Tablet addressed to the Greatest Holy Leaf]  BH06979

The entire text is a visitation tablet to be recited at the resting place of Sadru's-Sudur  AB01162

The text is explicitly identified as a "visitation prayer" (ziyarat) for the deceased Afnan  AB02859

The entire text is a visitation tablet written to acknowledge and commemorate a pilgrim's visit   AB05524

The entire text is a visitation prayer to be recited at the grave of a believer named Radi'r-Ruh  AB11821

[The entire text is structured as a visitation tablet to be recited at the tomb of the martyr Aqa Zaman]  AB01228

This entire text is a visitation tablet, expressing devotion and praise to a holy figure who was martyred  BB00322

Blessed are those souls who visit thy radiant resting place and derive spiritual strength from thy memory.  AB03687

The second half of the tablet is explicitly a visitation prayer to be recited at the grave of Aqa Mirza Hasan.   AB01235

[The entire tablet represents this category as it is explicitly labeled as a visiting tablet (ziyarat) for a martyr]   AB04964

[The entire text represents a visitation tablet, with specific prayers and ritual elements for visiting sacred places]   BB00168

Therefore 'Abdu'l-Baha penned a Tablet of Visitation for that illustrious personage, to be recited at his pure resting-place.  AB07895

Know, O my brother, that the law of visitation is thus: When thou standest at the gate of the sanctuary, say... [full prayer text]   BB00104

A prayer of visitation has been written for that martyr of the plain of trial. The divine friends should recite it on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha   AB06757

This is a prayer and visitation for the first to respond to his Lord, for the manifestations of His Self, and for the martyrs in His presence.  BB00086

In the Name of God, the Most Unapproachable, the Most Holy. Visitation for the Other, upon him be the Glory of God, the Sovereign, the Subduer   BB00275

Previously, a special visitation tablet was written specifically for that noble person, and a copy of it is being sent so that you may recite it   AB06189

Visitation prayer for the blessed martyr, the radiant light, His Holiness Mulla ?adiq... The first visitation should be performed on behalf of this servant   AB02636

This is a mention that hath been sent down for him amid the surging waves of thy Lord's favors. Blessed is he who visiteth him with this perspicuous mention.  BH06145

O faithful ones! Should ye visit the resting-place of the Most Exalted Leaf...stand ye and say: 'Salutation and blessing and glory upon thee, O Holy Leaf...'   BH05264

I swear by your precious life that at midnight I will arise and, facing the Holy Shrine, will perform the visitation with utmost supplication and entreaty on behalf of all   AB06101

May the brilliant, radiant light from the Kingdom of existence envelope that spot whereupon thy pure blood was shed and where thy luminous, blessed spirit was poured forth.   AB04619

First, on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha, a few of the friends should visit the luminous resting place of the servant of Baha and recite this, then deliver it to Jinab-i-Mirza Baqir.  AB05006

Recite a visitation prayer on behalf of Abdul-Baha. If none was revealed by the Supreme Pen, this servant would write and send one so that you and a group could visit by proxy   AB01600

Upon receipt of the Visitation Tablet, the loved ones of God should, on behalf of this servant, proceed to the place of martyrdom of that wronged one and recite that Visitation Tablet.  AB12565

Visitation prayer for the one who ascended to God, Mr. Mulla 'Ali...God's mercy be upon one who visits your grave, God's aid be upon one who walks in the vicinity of your resting place  AB02621

The first wave of exaltation from the ocean of grace of thy Lord, the Compassionate, be upon thee [Vahid] who art the essence of the Qur'an and possessor of the mysteries of the Bayan.   BH02591

When you enter the Blessed Shrine, pray in the small chamber near the abandoned well, then turn towards the Kaaba and say: I bear witness that there is no God but God, alone, with no partner   BB00120

When thou desirest to visit the land of Ya and beholdest the darkness and light of that city, pause, facing towards it, and say: The resplendent Light shining from the horizon of God's mercy...   BH03302

Well is it with thee and with whosoever visiteth thy resting-place at dawn and eventide, in the daytime and the night season. This, verily, is but a token of the grace of thine incomparable Lord.   AB07084

Regarding the visitation tablet for one who has attained the presence of his Lord "in the seat of truth, in the presence of the potent King" - God willing, a complete version will be written later  AB05797

This is a Visitation Tablet revealed by My Most Glorious Pen in the Most Exalted Horizon for His Holiness the Prince of Martyrs, Husayn ibn 'Ali - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for him.   BH00537

a special Visitation Tablet was revealed from the Supreme Pen. No bounty equals or parallels this favor. That Visitation Tablet was recited and the special grace and bounty became clear and evident   AB11700

May the fragrant breeze and the musk-laden perfume wafting from the Abha Paradise pass over your illumined grave and your perfumed tomb, O Samandar, O white falcon, O greatest eagle soaring to the heights!   AB02323

This is a visitation prayer to be recited by the divine friends of Isfandabad from the tongue of 'Abdu'l-Baha for the illustrious martyr Aqa Rida, upon him be the lights of martyrdom and sacrifice in the path of God.   AB02852

Blessed is he who speaketh in praise of thee, who remembereth thy sacrifice and virtuous qualities, who visiteth thy resting-place and reciteth that which hath been sent down from the Pen of Grace in the Most Great Prison.   BH03198

The holy fragrance and the human essence from the thicket of praise and the blessed, spacious garden, the circumambulation point of the people of Baha, has wafted over you and perfumed your pure tomb and your fragrant dust   AB05014

A prayer of visitation is being written for that pure soul martyred in God's path. Some of the friends should journey with perfect wisdom to that fragrant tomb and, on behalf of Abdul-Baha, visit it with complete humility.   AB01799

This is explicitly a visitation tablet, ending with a prayer for those who visit his grave: "Blessed is the seeker who seeks your tomb, and the lover who visits your grave and recites what the tongue of your Lord has uttered"   BH02434

The Glory be upon thee, O Essence of God! Then the Majesty be upon thee, O Camphor of God! Then the Beauty be upon thee, O Soul of God! Then the Grandeur be upon thee, O Being of God! Then the Light be upon thee, O Entity of God!   BB00223

Mashad through Mirza Ahmad - Jinab-i-'Inayatu'llah son of Katkhuda Isma'il-i-Namaqiy should observe this visitation tablet for one who was martyred in the path of God, Katkhuda Isma'il, upon him be the Most Glorious Beauty of God   AB06467

The Ancient Beauty was well pleased with 'Abdu'?-?ali?, and after his ascension revealed a Visitation Tablet in his honor, also delivering an address concerning him, which was taken down and published together with other Scriptures.  AB00002

This is a visitation prayer revealed by God, the Lord of Names, for His loved ones (Jinab-i-Ashraf, Basir and Mirza Muhammad-'Ali) who turned to the place of detachment for martyrdom and were martyred in the path of God in the land of Za.  BH02977

Mercy be upon him who falls prostrate upon thy dust in submission to God, and grace be upon him who circles round thy spot in humility before the Lord of Grandeur. My spirit be a sacrifice for thee, and upon thee be greetings and praise.   AB03853

Blessed is the one who visits you and draws near to your grave and seeks blessing from your remembrance and is moved by your martyrdom. And greetings and praise be upon you so long as the breeze continues to blow from the source of God's bounty.   AB01537

Peace be upon thee, O Abu-'Abdu'llah, and the mercy of God and His blessings. How can I describe thee, O my Master, when I am certain that all paths of existence are blocked before thee, and all attributes of things in thy presence return unto themselves?  BB00019

I salute your pure dust and your holy, blessed, and fragrant resting place through the holy breaths that waft over you from the Supreme Concourse and the lights that fall upon you from the Abha Kingdom and the rainfall that perfumes your expansive precinct   AB03022

May God have mercy on one who visits your tombs like palaces and seeks blessings at your resting places enfolded in robes of light, who communes there with his Lord, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving, and wishes for your radiant blessings upon every patient and grateful servant.   AB03046

On behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha, on the anniversary of the martyrdom of each of these two distinguished ones, if possible the friends should go to the luminous resting place of Haji and the perfumed wilderness of Hashim and recite this prayer of visitation on behalf of 'Abdu'l-Baha.  AB00706

Greet ye that luminous tomb and that pure and sanctified resting-place and say: "May the resplendent light shedding from the Realm of Glory and the ray shining from the Abha Kingdom envelop thy sweet-smelling mausoleum and spark upon thy resting-place that is fragrant with ambergris."  AB02142

O handmaiden of God! We have come to visit thee and have approached thy resting place, and we beseech God to grant thee at all times what He hath ordained in the highest Paradise for the people of Baha. Verily, He doeth what He willeth by His command, and He is the Mighty, the All-Bestowing.  BH11325

May the light shining from the Most Exalted Center and the All-Glorious Kingdom descend upon your pure spirit, your radiant body, and your illumined grave, and envelop your darkened resting place, O glorious martyr and sacrificial offering in the path of your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate.  AB11900

God hath ordained the fourfold in the fourfold from the paths of visitation in the visitation, in truth upon truth, and the matter in the Mother Book was decreed around the Fire... He it is Who hath promised His visitor the meeting with Himself, and God's promise was in truth, upon truth, fulfilled.  BB00002

If on such a day - a Friday - thou art in the presence of Him Whom God shall make manifest, blessed art thou! This shall suffice thee in lieu of visiting the Letters of Unity and performing all good deeds. Yet all understand this, but deprive themselves of this supreme bounty and this greatest triumph.   BB00669

And when thou desirest to visit that verdant and blessed sanctuary containing a body that endured hardships in the path of God, approach it and say: Upon thee be the glory of God and His lights. May He cast upon thee the hem of His robe and perfume thy tomb with the rain of His mercy and His mysteries.   AB00186

In the Name of God, the Most Exalted, the Most High. O Supreme Pen! Joy did not overtake thee in the days of thy Lord, the Most High, that thou mightest warble upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree with the melodies of Baha. Rather, thou wert touched by the supreme calamity whereupon the earth and heaven wailed.   BH00478

This is the Tablet of Visitation which hath been sent down from the Kingdom of Eternity for the Name of God Who was called Hasan and was related to His Self, the All-Compelling, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting. Blessed are they who visit him and are among the visitors and draw nigh through him unto God, the Mighty, the Beloved.   BH01328

Radiant glory and effulgent splendour be upon all who seek out thy resting-place, who visit thee, and call thee to remembrance for the sake of God, the Lord of all worlds; and upon thee, upon thy beginning and thy end, upon thy outer and thy inner being, rest His light and mercy, his grace, his loving favours, his providence and blessings.   BH03367

When thou approachest the land of Kha, drawest nigh unto it and perceivest its fragrance, arise before the tomb of the Glorious One and visit it with that which the Mighty, the All-Praised hath mentioned, and say: The essence of fragrance that hath been diffused from the garment of the mercy of our Lord, the Most High, the All-Glorious, be upon thee...  BH01312

I testify that Thou didst hear the call of the Divine Lote-Tree before all others, and didst turn unto it, detached from all that hath been created in the kingdom of creation, and didst drink from the first cup proffered by the hands of grace betwixt earth and heaven. My spirit be a sacrifice unto Thee, O Source of good deeds and Manifestation of clear signs!  BH05307

May the rain pouring from the cloud of God's mercy and the downpour descending from the clouds of God's forgiveness visit your hilltop which was illumined by your pure form, and your dust which was perfumed by the fragrances of your Lord's forgiveness, the Pardoning, the Forgiving. May successive layers of light continue to descend upon your grave among the graves.  AB05008

He is God, the Light radiating from the Most Glorious Kingdom and the Beam shining forth from the Supreme Concourse. May it encompass your uttermost Tree and your furthest Tree, and may it encircle your radiant, pure, and brilliant tomb whose precincts are perfumed, for you hastened to the place of sacrifice in the path of your Beloved, the Luminary of the highest horizon.   AB03895

Then say: Peace be upon Thee, O Essence of Eternity in the exaltation of Glory! Peace be upon Thee, O Camphor of Pre-existence in the ascendancy of Beauty! Peace be upon Thee, O Pure Essence of Bounty in the immunity of Perfection! Peace be upon Thee, O Essence of Mystery in the exaltation of Most Holy Action! Peace be upon Thee, O Pure Embodiment of Command at the ultimate pinnacle of might and justice!  BB00080

Glory be unto Thee, O God, Lord of the world and Master of nations! I beseech Thee by the Most Great Name through which Thy path was established and Thy balance was set up, and through which the ocean of grandeur surged and the mountains passed away, to forgive me and my father and whosoever hath believed in Thee and Thy signs. O my Lord! Thou seest me standing before the tomb of Thy friend and chosen one.  BH02260

He it is Who accepteth from his visitor through the true visitation of Himself, and Who hath called unto his place of martyrdom in truth by His throne - there is no God but He - without similitude in truth, and God hath not ordained for his mystery any interpretation upon a single letter. He it is Who hath promised His visitor the meeting with Himself, and God's promise was in truth, upon truth, fulfilled.  BB00002

O servant! Consecrate thy heart to the Sacred House, then visit it with manifest humility. When the way to thy Lord was barred, He ordained for the pilgrims to turn their hearts unto the seat of His mighty throne, for the people had blocked the path and prevented the servants from attaining the shore of impregnable glory. Therefore hath God accepted from them their turning toward the direction of the House with pure and luminous hearts.   BH01728

We have immortalized thy mention by My Most Exalted Pen in the Crimson Scroll which none but God, the Creator of all things, hath beheld, and We have remembered thee in this Tablet with that which shall cause those near unto God to remember thee and cause the sincere ones to turn toward thy resting-place. Blessed art thou, and felicity be unto thee and unto him who presenteth himself before thy grave and reciteth that which the All-Bountiful hath revealed concerning the final end.   BH00275

In the Name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate! Praise be to God Who caused to shine forth that which illumined the essences of material things and permitted it to radiate when it spoke forth, and Who spread enlightenment without cause or decree from the people of the Covenant. O God! Thou knowest that one of Thy believing servants hath beseeched me to bestow upon him an eloquent word and all-embracing mercy concerning the visitation of the chosen ones who act according to Thy command.  BB00113

And when thou desirest to enter that sacred land, purify thyself and make wholesome what is with thee to the best of thy ability. Know thou that there is the most exalted horizon of the Throne and the ultimate summit of Paradise, and that God doth ever behold thee, and the Manifestations of His Self do ever illumine thee. When thou hast performed such ablutions as thou art able, lie down for a while until thy strength returneth unto thee. Then arise and pray two rak'ahs in thy house, then walk in silence until thou reachest the first gate.   BB00053

This is the Tablet of Visitation which hath been sent down from the heaven of grace for the First Name of God, that through it he may visit the Most Great Maiden and those who have believed in God and His signs and were among the triumphant. When thou desirest to commence thy visitation of the Dawning-Place of Names and their Source, the Day-Spring of Attributes and their Treasury, arise and turn thy face toward Paradise, the Place wherein was interred the First Name, which God made the Shrine of His hallowed, mighty and resplendent Temple.   BH00280

In the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate! [...] And furthermore, when thou desirest to visit the Beloved of God or any of the Imams of the Faith, purify thy body from all that thy heart abhorreth. Then perform ablutions with seven handfuls of water upon the head, then four handfuls upon the right side, then three handfuls upon the left side. When thou hast finished, don thy finest garments, face the Qiblih and seek God's forgiveness two hundred and two times. Then walk with dignity and tranquility, magnifying God along thy path until thou reachest the gate of the sanctuary. There pause and magnify thy Lord two hundred and two times. Then enter without uttering a word and walk in tranquility until thou reachest seven paces beneath the feet.  BB00049
O servant of Baha! Praise be to God that thou hast reached the luminous Shrine, inhaled the holy fragrances from the blessed earth, prostrated thyself upon the sacred dust of that Threshold, and raised thy voice in prayer and supplication to the Kingdom of the All-Merciful.  AB12822
 
