Tarry not upon the Path, but pass along it as a cloud passeth.  BH00004

The cornerstone of the Religion of God is the acquisition of the Divine perfections and the sharing in His manifold bestowals. The essential purpose of faith and belief is to ennoble the inner being of man with the outpourings of grace from on high. If this be not attained, it is indeed deprivation itself. It is the torment of infernal fire.  AB00171

We counsel all with courtesy and virtuous character, and with trustworthiness and kindliness and godliness and unity.  BH05180

After ascending to the heavens of inner meanings, the wayfarers attain to three stations, meaning that the manifest Sun shines and becomes revealed in the mirrors of existing things according to these three ranks, although some consider the ranks of determinations to be five and have named them the five presences. Were I to explain in detail, a book would not suffice and I would not be able to fulfill it, just as that divine mystic and knower of divine mysteries, the lordly Imam, mentioned a drop from these stations in defining the world of the heart, which has surely come to your noble attention - that the final rank of these three stations is the journey from God unto God. In this station and rank, existence is effaced from self and subsists through the Truth. All are from God and unto God shall they return, and "Say: All things are from God" is sufficient witness and adequate proof of this point, as the mystic of Rum has said:  "The seeker's attributes are annihilated in His attributes, While his essence remains through the survival of His Essence."  This station certainly has no laws and seeks no customs, meaning all His deeds are pure justice even if outwardly they appear as injustice, and pure knowledge even if in form they appear as ignorance.  BH02091

Know thou that the seeker, at the outset of his quest for God, must enter the Garden of Search. In this journey it behoveth the wayfarer to detach himself from all save God and to close his eyes to all that is in the heavens and on the earth. There must not linger in his heart either the hate or the love of any soul, to the extent that they would hinder him from attaining the habitation of the celestial Beauty.  BH00012

The seekers of truth and the yearners for the Absolute Beauty sought the rising of the Sun of Truth in the horizons of the world and within themselves. Some beheld a gleam, others a flame, while yet others became bewildered and wandered astray. They searched in the dust of the mystery of "were it not for Thee" and sought in the realities and essences of animal, plant and mineral the all-encompassing truth of origin and return. When the divine Dhu'l-Qarnayn traversed the East and West of existence and unveiled the horizon of the unseen and the visible, He saw the Sun of Truth rising and setting in the dawning-place of lights of the human temple and elemental frame, "He found it setting in a murky spring." AB06967

Some, after spiritual struggle and physical toil, ascend from the lower reaches of "no God is there" to the lofty bowers of "but God", flee from the shadow of negation to abide in the limitless realm of affirmation, and abandon the privation of a transient existence for the bountiful assemblage of reunion. This is the uttermost limit of the realm of effort and striving. Others, without receiving the least intimation of "no God is there", pass beyond the highest horizon of "but God"; without even tasting a dewdrop of the degrees of self-surrender ascend unto the kingdom of life everlasting; and without partaking from the wellspring of utter abnegation quaff the wine of the Ancient of Days. These souls, as they traverse the stages of wayfaring and ascend unto the stations of reunion, walk a different path and occupy a different rank.  BH01050

The thirsty one must run after the water; the fountain will not run after those who are thirsty.  ABU3760

You must strive to become day by day more enlightened, more alive, more attracted and more joyous  AB06614

From your earliest years until this day, praise be to God, you have been advancing and progressing  AB12473

I beseech God that day by day your spirituality may increase and you may attain spiritual progress.  AB09829

I ask God that, day by day, thy steps may progress, that thou mayest grow firmer in the love of God  AB07197

We hope that day by day he may ascend the ladder of progress through the gifts of the Abha Kingdom.  AB06259

The Seven Valleys was revealed for spiritual wayfaring, and spiritual wayfaring is greatly beloved.   AB02662

May they all be occupied at all times with the remembrance of God and be set ablaze with the fire of His love.   BH09971

Do thou therefore strive with all thy heart and soul that thou mayest abide in this nest and thrive till eternity   AB07130

I beseech God that day by day you may increase in faith, certitude, spiritual knowledge and the guidance of humanity.   AB11782

"On the heels of every difficulty, of every sorrow there follows the next-higher level of calm, of approaching perfection."   ABU0415

This protection and providence, this shade of bounty is none other than attraction to the holy fragrances of His divine Beauty.  AB08923

day by day you will progress in the Kingdom until you become a heavenly angel and are confirmed by the breaths of the Holy Spirit   AB06732

When man discovers the Path of the Heavenly Kingdom, he must strive day and night to develop along the line of spiritual Realities.  AB11604

This light of Guidance which is enkindled in the glass of thy heart must become more luminous day unto day and illumine all directions.  AB05476

I hope that day by day the outpourings of the Kingdom will successively reach your heart, and day by day you will become more steadfast  AB03462

Put your trust in God, then advance toward it if ye walk in God's guidance. This is a City which God hath manifested through His power.   BH05177

Occupy thyself in remembrance of the Beauty of Him Who is the Unconstrained at early morn, and seek communion with Him at the hour of dawn  BH06095

Close one eye and open the other. Close one to the world and all that is therein, and open the other to the hallowed beauty of the Beloved.  BH00113

It befits the divine friends to receive in every breath a dewdrop from the eternal bounty and take their share from the remembrance of God   AB11992

every gift must increase and progress day by day, for stagnation leads to decline. I beseech God that you may daily increase in divine love  AB09276

With complete sincerity, be engaged in the remembrance of the Intended One in the nights and days, and be detached and severed from all else.  BH03542

Barter not the everlasting dominion for a single emanation, nor the sovereignty of the Celestial Paradise for a fleeting desire.  BH00133

until he arriveth at that most exalted homeland, the station at whose mere mention the Pen is struck dumb with longing for that glorious realm  BH06385

Hearken unto My call from the direction of My throne, then soar in the atmosphere of My companionship and journey through the realms of My nearness.  BH11849

He hath guided thee to the straight path and the right way. Seek ever greater measure, at every moment and instant, of the grace of thy Ancient Lord.  AB09715

Endeavor each day to attain to a new station and in every moment seek after lofty ranks. Make your resolve great, for divine grace is mighty and great  BH06461

O wanderer in the divine path! Wander and roam in this endless desert, and in this destination of the people of knowledge, seek your dwelling and abode.  AB07438

This is the way of the lovers, this is the path of the longing ones. Until you reach this station, you will not find rest in the shade of the Sacred Tree.  AB04285







O seeker! The Sought One calls out to you, saying: Leave mankind behind you, then drink the wine of inner meanings from the cup of your Lord's countenance.  BH11839

It is hoped from God's grace that day by day you will become brighter and take steps forward and receive a greater portion and share from the endless bounty   AB06999

He causes the mystics to ascend to the unseen realm of eternity while sending the ones who turn away to the lowest depths - Glorified be my Lord, the Most High!  BH11879

This is the path of lovers where even the guide wanders bewildered. This is the sacred sanctuary where the pilgrim's garb of all save Him betokens lack of certitude.  BH08129

O thou who prostrateth thyself at the threshold of the Ancient Beauty! Prostration is evidence of the absence of being--that is, of utter humility, evanescence and nothingness.  AB09394

Have great magnanimity so that thou mayest be favored in the threshold of the Almighty. Have lofty aspirations so that thou mayest attain in the kingdom of God to eternal life.  AB03623

This is the heavenly ladder and the highest degrees in the human world. When one sets his face toward this station and yearns for this rank, all existence stands beneath its shade.  AB02541

When, in the wilderness of deprivation, the intensity of your thirst increased, you hastened to the wellspring of the Water of Life and drank from the fountain of the All-Merciful.  AB09535

Strike a melody in the path of the Friend and direct thyself to the realm of the holy valley, that thou mayest witness the greatest signs in the blessed spot of the Valley of Security.   AB10879

O thou who art athirst for the Water of Life! This manifest book is the fountainhead of the Water of Life Eternal. Drink so much as thou art able from the fountain of the Living Water!  AB11282


When they find, they prefer others over themselves, and when they lose, they give abundant thanks to God. These are the qualities of the righteous and the characteristics of the chosen ones   AB02113

Hold fast to the cord of divine favour and cling to the hem of mercy. Purify and sanctify thy heart from the dark and shadowy forms of this world and enter into the sanctified realm of Divine Unity.  BH11654

becoming an esteemed servant in the Threshold of Oneness and partaking of a share of the heavenly gifts, and progressing day by day until thou attain to the apex of the excellencies of this human world  AB08884

Strive that, God willing, through His grace you may soar like celestial birds in this holy rose-garden, arrive at this shore of the Most Great Sea, and drink from this pure spring and everlasting Kawthar   BH04407

We beseech God that day by day your spiritual love may increase, and that you may daily advance in the degrees of knowledge, become the cause of enlightening eyes, purifying thoughts and sanctifying souls  AB05668

May you receive day unto day these bounties! May you draw nearer unto God day unto day! May you be submerged in the sea of these iridescent lights! May you be characterized with these praiseworthy virtues!   ABU2490

O my Lord! Confirm this revered personage, that he may attain the Essential Purpose; travel in these Seven Valleys; enter the silent chamber of realities and significances, and enter the Kingdom of Mysteries.  AB11288

I implore for you heavenly life; pray for you eternal happiness, pray for you the spirit of the Kingdom and the second birth, so that you may enter from the natural world into the world of the Merciful Kingdom.  AB12634

Enter into the Cause of Baha'u'llah and act in accordance with His counsels. When you have attained to the pinnacle of your development in the Cause of Baha'u'llah, you will see how confirmations are granted you.  ABU3754

Day and night occupy yourselves with praise and glorification of the Most Glorious Beauty, for the remembrance and mention of that Peerless Beauty transforms the realm of the heart into gardens of spiritual meaning.  AB03663

Does material pursuit prevent spiritual progress?... Spiritual powers always come to the assistance of such affairs, they increase the moral insight and responsibility of man and add to his awareness and mindfulness.  ABU2801

We have caused it to reach the Worshipped One in all the veins until the light hath overcome thee and thy soul hath become firm upon the Mount. Thy Lord calleth thee with His forgiving tongue, so stand firm in the seat of joy  BB00325

With My own hands have I reared thee, and in My exalted Paradise have I planted thee, that through My loving care thou mightest bring forth goodly branches, pure boughs, and blessed fruits. And now is the time of thy fruition.  BH11754

We hope that thou wilt grasp the strong and mighty cord, abandoning the ropes of idle fancy and vain imaginings, and wilt enter from the abode of doubt and conjecture into the holy city of certitude, steadfastness and assurance.  BH00004

Therefore, we must all strive to become spiritual, heavenly, and of God. However far we may advance in the world of nature and in material civilization, we will remain imperfect unless we progress in spiritual perfections as well.  ABU0179

Though outwardly thou art distant from the Kingdom of Glory through the tyranny of the oppressors and the hatred of the antagonists, yet inwardly thou art seated and established in the most exalted station upon the throne of glory.  BH05360

The mention of God is the companion of souls and the quickener of hearts. Strive to become free from mention of aught else through His remembrance, and with perfect steadfastness and detachment find rest beneath the shadow of His mercy.   BH08736

O seeker! The Sought One calleth thee from His mighty prison and maketh mention of thee with a mention through which the horizon of utterance hath been illumined and every temple hath been adorned with the ornament of My Name, the All-Wise.  BH11795

Since this is a month in which the seekers of the true goal, the wayfarers on the spiritual path, the drinkers of the choice wine of inner meanings, and the circumambulators of the divine Ka'bah are all in a state of attraction, passion and joy  BH07479

Withdraw not the hand of seeking from the hem of the Desired One. With the eye of the spirit, gaze upon the Beloved of all worlds, that perchance thou mayest not be deprived of the ocean of His bounty nor be forbidden from the heaven of His grace.  BH08108

You strived with heart and soul and ran on foot until you cast yourself upon the Holy Land and reached the Blessed Threshold and attained the honor of visiting the purified shrine. This was the ultimate desire and praise be to God it was fulfilled.   AB01927

O thou wanderer in the divine wilderness! What thou hast written was heard and what thou hast submitted was seen. From the flowering meadows of thy heart a fragrant breeze wafted, and from the gardens of the Kingdom of God a delightsome zephyr blew.  AB06228

As you searched with your soul for the Kind Friend, you finally hastened to His path. And I hope that in the center of beauty you will seek His way, behold the radiance of His face, drink from His stream, attain the presence of His heart-attracting Self   AB07509

I hope that you may become the manifestation of the favors of the Blessed Beauty and day by day increase in faith, certitude and spiritual knowledge. At night engage in devotion, supplication and prayer, and during the day carry out whatever is necessary.  AB09679

Praise be to God! that thou feelest progress in the luminous realm through divine love. This very fact denotes that, God willing, thou art to be a fruitful tree; nay, rather, thou wilt become a rose-garden of the hyacinths of realities and significances.   AB06589

The Greatest Name should be found upon the lips in the first awaking moment of early dawn. It should be fed upon by constant use in daily invocation, in trouble, under opposition, and should be the last word breathed when the head rests upon the pillow at night.  AB09731

Today God's gaze is fixed upon worthy deeds. One word uttered with sincerity is recorded as a book in God's presence, and one drop of deeds is accounted as an ocean. This is special to this Most Great Manifestation, exalted be His glory and universal be His bounty.  BH00157

Therefore, in thanksgiving for these favors they must bow down and prostrate themselves, and because of this confirmation and success become enthralled and attracted to the Intended Lord. They must chant the verses of unity and interpret the words of the Glorious Lord.   AB04503

Therefore, were I to open a hundred thousand tongues in my mouth and with each tongue offer praise and thanksgiving unto Thee, I would still fall short of properly thanking Thee for such a gift that Thou hast freely given and such a bounty that Thou hast freely bestowed.  AB06351

Until thou traversest the world in a single breath, Until thou art freed from the prison of this cage, Before thou enterest the shade of the Friend, No knowledge hast thou of core or shell. Thy spiritual feet are sunk in clay, Unaware of the radiance of that beauteous Face.  BH00108

The valley of deprivation has been traversed and arrival at the abode of the Beloved has been achieved. You have become privy to divine mysteries and numbered among the company of the righteous. You have joined the circle of lovers and raised the anthem of the yearning ones.  AB05989

Birds soaring in the heights of heaven progress as long as they continue ascending, but when they reach the point of stopping, they descend and their ascent ends in abasement. Therefore, be not content with any degree of human perfection and nearness to the Divine Threshold.  AB08480

I pray for you daily, seeking for yours ideal progress, requesting for you the power of insight, the enlargement of your perceptions, that ideal bounties may continuously reach you and that all of you shall advance along all the degrees of endeavor, towards God's perfection.   ABU0926

through the effects of thy entrance into the Divine Kingdom thou art progressing day by day. When this progress shall become perpetual and continual, then thou shall find the Most Great Center in the Universe of God, and shall clearly behold the Confirmations of the Holy Spirit.   AB04955

Rend asunder the veils by My Name, the Mighty, the Beloved, and turn not unto anyone except God, thy Lord. Set thy face toward the luminous and visible Countenance, that the greatness of turbans may not prevent thee from entering the sanctuary of God, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Holy.   BH00431

Verily He has power over whatsoever He wishes and He is the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. And this is the station of the spiritual messenger who moves by the confirmation of light and circumambulates the Throne of manifestation, and afterwards remembers all the dwellers of the pavilion.  BH05631

I have no object save Thee, nor any purpose except Thee. Indeed, my striving, my endeavor, the utmost of my desire and my elevation lie in performing a deed which Thou lovest or wherewith Thou art well-pleased with me, for that is the highest chamber of Paradise for him who hath known Thee  BB00011

If thou wouldst hear from this servant, cast away the wings of limitation and imitation and soar with the wings of detachment in this atmosphere of divine unity, that thou mayest find thyself sanctified from delusory doubts and skeptical allusions, and illumined with the lights of certitude.  BH00006

At dawn, with wondrous and melodious voices, they will be engaged in the mention of God. On foot and bareheaded, and with humility and modesty, and in a state of supplication and entreaty, chanting divine verses and prayers, they will attain to a visit of the Shrine of the Exalted One [the Bab].  ABU3684

Verily, He remembereth you in the Most Great Prison, and instructeth you in that which will cause you to draw nigh unto a station that delighteth the eyes of the pure in heart. Glory rest upon you and upon those who have attained unto that living fountain which floweth forth from My wondrous Pen.  BH11810

The journey of this crescent in the heaven of the universe ends in (becoming) a full moon. That is, that face of it which is turned toward the divine world becomes also opposite to the contingent world, and by this, both its merciful and spiritual, as well as contingent, perfections become complete.  AB10788

Upon arrival in the city of 'Akka, should it be possible for every soul to meet the Most Great Branch, and upon departure to see some of the sincere loved ones before leaving the city, it would be more beneficial to their spiritual state, as they would not have witnessed human thoughts and earthly deeds.  BHU0039

Hearken once again to the sweetest call from the direction of thy Most Glorious Lord, that My call may draw thee to My Kingdom and sever thee from all else but Me, and inspire thee with that which will bring rest to thy soul in My days and lighten thee of the burden of the earth and all who dwell thereon.  BH11835

Be thou aflame with this Fire which proclaimeth from the midmost heart of creation: There is none other God but Me, the Mighty, the All-Forgiving. Be thou steadfast in the love of thy Lord and firm in His Cause in such wise that through thee the banner of constancy may be planted upon the highest summits.  BH11639

That is, when Moses attained the most exalted stations and traversed the paths of immortality and was illumined by the lights of grandeur and majesty, he desired to draw nigh unto the Tree of Divine Decree and the Lote-Tree of Accomplishment, that he might witness what was ordained in the Preserved Tablet.  AB00009

Therefore, strive as much as you can to seek this holy divine exaltation, and pursue this universal divine power, and desire this incisive heavenly sword, so that you may progress in all degrees of existence and be confirmed in the characteristics of the All-Merciful and the emanations of the All-Glorious.  AB08978

The wayfarer on the white path will never reach the station of his true homeland save through detachment from all that is in the hands of men. Abandon thy earthly homeland, then set thy face toward that station which God hath made the source of homeland for all who turn unto God, the Lord of the seen and unseen.  AB03551

When the servant heard and recognized the association within himself, he feared before his Creator and his dark self became subtle. He said, Am I not a confidant of your secret? He (peace be upon him) said Indeed, showing kindness so as not to extinguish the fire of his love, and that which overflows trickled upon him.  BB00151

This is the true meaning of ascension in the stages of journeying and the ultimate bounty of God, the Powerful, the Supreme, the Compelling, that thou mayest become the narrator of the sun of His beauty, the guide to the moon of His majesty, the beholder of the garments of His Essence, and the witness to the light of His mystery.  BH06432

Rejoice within thyself for thine own self, then whisper secretly unto thine essence within thine essence. Then detach thyself from all that hath been created in the past or will be created in the future, that thy heart may be sanctified from the intimations of grandeur, that the lights of holiness and beauty may be shed upon thee.  BH11913

O My Name! Hear My call, then weep with My weeping, then rejoice with My joy, then ascend unto My heaven and journey through My holy dominions and soar in the atmosphere of My companionship. Then walk in the regions of My love and glorify in the ocean of My grandeur, then settle upon the ark of My majesty and ascend to the heights of My Cause.  BH11678

O mindful one! You know that this path is the pathway of love for the Lord and the way of knowledge of the Creator. It is not traversed with ease, nor is it traveled with physical comfort and tranquility. Every step is a diamond, and every sorrow is a companion. In every breath there is poison and honey and sugar, and wounds are medicine and balm.   AB05535

O thou who art enkindled with the fire of My love, who gazest upon My countenance, who traversest the lands for the sake of nearness unto Me and reunion with Me, who art attracted by My verses, who art adorned with My remembrance and praise, who ascendest unto the throne of My grandeur, and who turneth toward My holy sanctuary and the Kaaba of My majesty!  BH11814

O my brother! Take thou the step of the spirit, so that, swift as the twinkling of an eye, thou mayest flash through the wilds of remoteness and bereavement, attain the Ridvan of everlasting reunion, and in one breath commune with the heavenly Spirits. For with human feet thou canst never hope to traverse these immeasurable distances, nor attain thy goal.  BH00002

Know thou that there are seven degrees of knowledge. First is the knowledge of God, to which reference has been made, and verses have been revealed for the knowers in the first sermon and second gate, that all might acquire knowledge through separation from the point of union to distinction. The four stations of unity return to the essence of unity itself.  BB00017

Many have traversed day and night according to their own imaginings, and saw no fruit but doubt, and reaped no harvest but uncertainty and misgiving. They dove into the ocean of vain fancies and sought knowledge of the precious truth of the All-Knowing. They descended into a barren wilderness yet yearned for the flame of the Mount and the radiance of light.  AB08111

When thou followest this path purified from peers and similitudes, the light of glory will shine upon thee. And if thou performest any deed in that depth, God will judge it with the judgment of unity - there is naught like unto it, for it hath been told from its Lord and none in creation knoweth it save thy Lord, besides Whom there is no God, the Mighty, the Merciful.  BB00019

Therein hath He ordained that which He hath ordained in no other paradise, and We have now unveiled its covering and mentioned it unto you as a mercy from Us unto all the worlds. Therein are rivers of the shade of God's loving-kindness, which God hath forbidden unto all save those who have shown patience in tribulations, seeking the face of God, Who is in truth praiseworthy.  BH00034

O wanderer of Abdu'l-Baha! Thou who art lost in mountain and desert, straying in wilderness and plain, thou who art homeless and enraptured, passionately devoted to the All-Merciful! What bounty is this, and what virtue! May dust be on the head of every soul who wanders not in His path, and death be sweeter than life to every honored one who suffers not abasement in His way.  AB02504

And further: the stages that mark the wayfarers' journey from their mortal abode to the heavenly homeland are said to be seven. Some have referred to them as seven valleys, and others, as seven cities. And it is said that until the wayfarer taketh leave of self and traverseth these stages, he shall never attain the ocean of nearness and reunion nor taste of the matchless wine.  BH00047

My hope is that through the grace of the manifest Light you may find a new spirit and succeed with boundless power.   AB01972

Take thou this Book with the hands of thy spirit, then cast it upon the vision of thy heart that thou mayest find the fragrance of eternity from the Egypt of the Divine Essence and be of those women who have ascended to the holy retreats and have heard the verses from behind the veils and have drunk the wine of life from the countenance of Beauty from a glorious and luminous cup.  BH11716

Turn not to anything in the kingdom, but seek ye a way unto God, the Most High, the Most Great. Then follow what God hath commanded you in the perspicuous tablets of glory, and turn not unto anyone, and fear no soul. Set your faces toward the shore of the wondrous sea, then drink of what God hath ordained for you from the laws of wisdom, and be not of the patient ones.  BH11492

Similarly, man's spiritual reality progresses through stages. One must traverse the stations and stages of spiritual progress until attaining the station of We have indeed created man in the best of forms. If during the traversing of stages any weakness or defect occurs, or any negligence or delay is accepted, progress becomes impaired and one remains fixed at the stage of imperfection.  AB01285

and didst soar on two wings of love to the uttermost degrees of nearness and didst hear the glad-tidings of reunion from the realm of might and holiness, as if thou didst perceive the melodies of the Divine Essence from the Eternal Dove, whereby thou wert immersed in the lights of beauty and freed from the veils of glory, and didst arrive at the seats of spirit and rapture and attainment   BH02134

Therefore purify what ye wear with water as soon as ye are able, that ye may find the mercy of your Lord within yourselves and then be thankful. Say: All this is that ye may be pleased with yourselves regarding yourselves and not be averse, but God hath more authority over you than your own selves, then the Prophet and those who are witnesses after Him, then the Gates of Guidance, if ye act.  BB00004

Verily Thy servant Husayn was born in the bosom of harmony and suckled at the breast of love throughout all regions. He was born in the cradle of faith and raised in the nest of certitude. He grew into a radiant youth through the light of Thy love, and a pure young man through the outpouring of Thy knowledge, and a distinguished elder speaking Thy praise, until his head was whitened with age in Thy path.  AB11326

The figurative world and the physical world are both pure nonexistence, but they appear in the garb of being. The first is the grief of the wayfarers and the second is the test of those who have attained. Therefore, it is necessary that a supreme effort be made, so that the compassionate spirit might overcome these two spiritual obstacles by the power of the All-Praised and find repose in the incomparable shelter of union.  BH08159

This is he who has detached himself from his home, journeyed from his native land, and emigrated in Thy path, and has striven in Thy love until he reached the seat of Thy Self and the repository of Thy Beauty and the treasury of Thy Glory, and heard Thy melodies and beheld Thy lights, and visited the sanctuary of Thy presence and the Kaaba of Thy reunion, and thereby entered into the fortress of Thy care and the garden of Thy bounty.  BH11918

And if thou desirest to traverse that most exalted path and to abide near the throne or nearer still, then make thyself as though thou wert on the day when thou wert nothing. Then make thyself as one living whom thy Lord created in His own image - naught is like unto Him - without regarding aught beside Him. There shalt thou abide near the throne of grandeur and commune with thy Lord with thy inner and outer tongue, morning and evening.  BB00247

When thou observest the signs of the Answer, thou shalt witness the Balance of correspondence in the pavilion of the Cause. Verily in those impenetrable, pitch-dark, blind, and gloomy depths of hell is the number of the letter Vav, and in the presence of the Manifestation of the Word is that which equals the number of the letter Ha. The possessors of understanding know not here except through what is here. Through this the decree was known once.  BB00031

That river represents the currents of world events, thoughts, and the flow of earthly and human nature's requirements, wherein all creatures are drowning - that is, they are captive to the world of nature, which is corrupted and darkness upon darkness. Praise be to God that, guided by one mounted upon the Phoenix of the East, thou hast been delivered from that terrifying and perilous river, and now traversest the straight path and the right way.  AB11192

When thou art certain of this matter, look to the proof and be patient concerning the signs of the All-Glorious, for the mystery of this ocean is profound, profound[...] Be patient with the verses of the All-Glorious, for the mystery of this ocean is profound, most profound, and the wisdom of that mystery is exquisite, most exquisite, and the veil of that Cause is subtle, most subtle, and the attributes of that servant are delicate, most delicate.  BB00021

In the ascending scale man travels the opposite path and passes through all the conditions of spirit which correspond with the conditions of matter on the first half. He begins with the body - the lowest spiritual condition - then reaches the point where he perceives God, just as he reached the point where he perceived matter. Then he reaches a higher condition where power is added to perception, just as in the beginning sensation was added to growth.  ABU0299

Say what ye wish. That which was incumbent upon Truth, glorified be His majesty, He hath proclaimed in most eloquent terms before the faces of all the world. All things bear witness to this, if ye be not of them that deny. Judge fairly: after the effulgences of the Sun of the Bayan of the All-Merciful, and the waves of the ocean of divine knowledge, and the manifestations of the Luminary of inner meanings in the gathering of the world, is it befitting to speak like the former deniers?  BH00095

O Shir-'Ali! The lion is the recurring warrior, the disperser of the wicked ones. The heedless ones are but a pack of rabbits. Like a lion in the arena of divine knowledge, let forth the roar of lions and display the might of those intoxicated with the wine of God's love. Make the claw of the love of God into a sword of steel, and with the talon of divine proof as a sharp-cutting dagger, rend asunder the vitals of ignorance and scatter the insistent self. This, O my dear child, is spiritual valor.  AB10927

But those holy souls who walked on the path of the Kingdom like the disciples of Jesus Christ, who were engaged in giving the glad tidings of the appearance of the promised one of the Torah - these people and the result of their efforts is permanent to the end that has no end, for they flew in the immense infinity of divine atmosphere which has no end. They immersed themselves in the bottomless ocean. But the others traveled in the world of limitation and that is why there is no trace left of them.  AB06724

Know that when the Ahmad Reality and the Muhammad Essence beheld the Truth of the Necessary Being and Its glory, and the essence of contingent being and its abasement, and divine power and Its majesty, and created helplessness in the court of might and grandeur, they proclaimed with eloquent tongue and persuasive utterance that the Ancient Reality of the Divine Essence, in Its innermost truth, is sanctified above every attribute and praise, and exalted beyond all eulogy, description, exposition and explanation.  AB00247

Be thou certain with decisive certainty and look with the eye of certainty toward the point of substances - thou shalt see it still in the depths of its heart where no sign of movement is possible therein. Then look with the glance of certainty - thou shalt see it in the mystery of its stillness moving through the bounty of creation and revolving around itself through the support of invention upon the truth of origination from the Creator of all things through the impregnable truth above similitudes and likenesses.  BB00244

Verily God hath ordained for Joseph a journey from Gate to Gate according to the decree of the Book around the Fire, concealed. And God hath made the pilgrims to Husayn a caravan unto the Sacred Precinct, save by leave of God, the Most High (and He is God, the Mighty, the Wise). They who journey from the Gate unto God in the depths of Oneness, upon the truth with the truth, in the precincts of the Gate, alone - these have found Husayn upon the edge of the hidden mystery, with truth, in the depths of the well, witnessed.  BB00002

If you yearn for the meeting, turn to the Abha Kingdom. If you seek the divine countenance, gaze toward the highest horizon. If you desire seeing eyes, open them to His eternal Beauty. If you seek hearing ears, turn your hearing to His holy melodies. If you seek an eloquent tongue, arise to His mention and praise. If you desire a radiant face, adorn it with the light of the All-Merciful. If you seek a rose garden and flower bed, beautify the heart with His knowledge. If you desire an expansive breast, let it be dilated through His love.  AB01282

He was the first to drink the pure wine of divine favors from the hands of grace and bounty, and tasted the sweetness of the fruit of eternity from the Tree whose root is firm in the earth and whose branch reaches unto heaven. He was the first dawn to shine forth with the effulgence of God's lights, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting; the first river to branch forth from God's vast ocean, the King, the Protector, the All-Forgiving; the first soul to arise from the slumber of idle fancies and to emerge and shine forth from the dayspring of certitude.  AB00017

The entire Law is but a path for the servant to journey toward his Lord, but through movement toward the pivot We have indicated. As for the way to reach this pivot, know thou that attaining unto the station of thine own reality is attaining unto thy Lord, and it is the station of pure God-fearing, as one of the Prophets asked about God, saying: How can one reach Thee? God, the Exalted, replied: Cast away thyself and come unto Me. This station is for beginners, to turn away from what the soul desireth and to bear what it detesteth, for there is no veil more forbidding than one's own self.  BB00297

Set foot upon the circle of existence that thou mayest emerge from the point of thy purpose, and place thy head in the wilderness of nothingness that thou mayest enter the Egypt of reunion. Open thine ear that thou mayest hear the celestial call of the unseen realm, and purify thy spirit's essence that thou mayest become aware of the mysteries in the privacy of thy Friend. Spread thy spiritual wings that thou mayest soar in the heaven of eternity, and ascend on holy spirit that thou mayest arrive at the spiritual court. Take a step with all thy soul that thou mayest find thy way to the presence of the Ancient Beauty.  BH11624

"All that you spoke with your tongue, wrote upon pages, strung as pearls of utterance, and desired in your heart and soul has been heard, known and witnessed. Praise be to the Ancient Lord, the Manifest Light, and the Sun of the Supreme Heaven that you have received such a bounty from the King of Creation - that you found the way to the lane of the Friend, hastened to His threshold of favors, turned away from all else but Him, were consumed by the fire of His beauty, and attained such a gift which was the ultimate hope of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful, and tasted the sweetness of grace from the cup of eternity."  AB04483

When the seeker hath become aware of these veils that obstruct and hath cast away from himself these intervening curtains, then shall he tread the paths of unity and traverse the valleys of detachment. He shall withhold himself from all that beseemeth him not, shall hold his tongue from mention of aught except God, and shall stay his hand from reaching for aught save His good-pleasure. At that moment shall the lights of certitude's sun shine forth upon him and the radiance of assurance shall be shed upon the mirror of his heart, and the sovereign of the love of the All-Merciful shall be seated upon the throne of his heart.  AB00018


From time immemorial until now, whosoever hath detached himself from all save God and turned unto Him hath, in every station, attained his heart's desire, for in the stages of spiritual nearness, physical distance hath never been, nor ever shall be, a barrier. That which hath forever stood as a veil between the Truth and creation hath been the veils of self and desire. So long as these veils persist, the servant remaineth far removed from the assemblage of nearness, even should he stand before the Divine Throne. Yet after these veils are rent asunder, he standeth before His countenance, though outwardly he be a hundred thousand leagues distant.  BH03017

Whoever wishes to carry it should sit in a private place, recite the Verse of Power which is in the first circle (previously the Throne Verse was written in its place), recite the Divine Names which are in the second circle, and then recite the prayer written in the figure at the center of the circle. Afterward, with complete attention, detachment, and turning to God, they should take it and fold it, and while folding it, recite nineteen times He is the Protector, the Helper, the Succourer, the All-Assisting. Then they should not open it again, but keep it with them wrapped in wax paper and sewn in another cloth. It may be carried on the head, chest, or arm - the main purpose is that it should be with them, and they are permitted to carry it in whatever manner they wish.  BH11677

And among the people are those who have detached themselves from all who are in the heavens and are not shaken by the trials of adversity, and are of them who hasten unto the dawning-places of light. These are they through whose names the pavilions of Divine Identity were raised up and the mysteries of the Cause were revealed and the Dove warbled with wondrous hidden knowledge. Thus doth God exalt whom He pleaseth by His command and rewardeth those who are detached unto Him, and giveth them to drink at all times from a fountain which ye know not. And thereby He teacheth them the ways of righteousness and guideth them to the paths of guidance, and they ascend at every moment unto the heaven of knowledge while the angels of the spirit hover above their heads with chalices of light, moving about them in circles.  BH11755

There are three paths through which man obtains spiritual happiness. The first path is the path of ordeals, trials and difficulties. His feet are torn with thorns and thistles, he goes through many pains and torments but finally he reaches to his destination. The second path is a pleasant path but the traveler makes slow progress. He advances surely but slowly. Step by step he comes nearer and nearer to the goal. It may take many years but the persevering, determined, cheerful traveler goes on and on. The third path is the path of faith. With one step the traveler finds himself in the Kingdom; even less than the twinkling of an eye the change is wrought. In one moment, he travels from the world of negation into the world of affirmation. We have seen this with our own eyes. A man who has been the collective center of all the vices, having become a Baha'i is changed completely in less than a second. He has become another man. He has entered a new world of light. ABU1949

Regarding what you wrote about the dervishes of the venerable Shaykh, the matter is exactly as you have written. You too should in all circumstances show forth love, for between the venerable Shaykh and our Master, His Holiness the Most Great Branch - may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of His footsteps - there exists friendship and love. The metaphorical is a bridge to the real. God willing, they shall be illumined by the light of reality and attain the station of "extinguish the lamp for the morn has dawned." When a person of insight enters the path of spiritual wayfaring, after purifying and sanctifying the soul from all that God loveth not, multiple paths appear and he traverses them. This is why they have said "The paths to God are as numerous as the breaths of created things." However, if through God's grace the eye is blessed with the light of truth, it will be observed that the Truth is one, the Path is one, and the Cause is one. This is the station of unity that makes the limbs of the polytheists tremble and the root of heedlessness quake. BH01200


"When the soul has travelled through many valleys, it reaches to the city of Love. That city contains four pillars."  ABU2332

Thou hast traversed the highway of the law and the path until thou didst reach the truth. Thou hast been freed from the delusions of others and attained to the essence of knowledge.  AB01254

like the verdure of the meadow, longing for the drops from the cloud of guidance. Therefore thou didst pass through various states until at last thou didst reach the fountainhead of truth  AB04710

Currently most of the friends are in the first stage, meaning they have traversed the Valley of Search and found their Beloved. But after the station of search they must reach the station of love, attain the degrees of unity, drink from the cup of knowledge, become immersed in the sea of wonderment, achieve utter evanescence and bow their heads in submission and contentment.  AB01911

Thus do the wayfarers in the wilderness of solitude and search experience events and conditions which, though to outward seeming be a mortal poison, are inwardly a wholesome draught, and though in appearance a passing mirage, are in reality pure and refreshing waters. Were I to attempt a full description of this station, neither could I express it nor the hearer grasp it. And whoso observeth with the eye of innate knowledge will confess, openly as well as privily, the selfsame truth.   BH00693

After a man has come under the care of the Teachers, after he has perceived and understood the nature of man in its purity, then, having gained discrimination, he learns what virtue is. Such a man realises his faults. He takes himself to task because of his unworthy and evil qualities. He is ever contrite- repentant for his evil deeds. He longs for goodness and virtue. This is the second state or condition of the perceiving soul; it is the first stage of the progress of the soul to God.  ABU0464

We found thy remembrance like the songs of lovers in their longing and yearning. At one time thou didst behold the Beloved with thine eye and didst mention Him in such wise that We perceived from it the fragrance of coquetry and boldness - though this beseemeth not the Beloved Who hath been manifested upon the horizons with the lights of this Effulgence. And at another time thou didst turn to Him with His own eye and didst describe Him in such wise that We perceived from it the fragrance of detachment and thy arising to serve God  BH01891

The first state of the perceiving soul is that in which it is engrossed in the gratification of desire. In this state its nature is like that of animals: animal lusts predominate in it....  After a man has come under the care of the Teachers, after he has perceived and understood the nature of man in its purity, then, having gained discrimination, he learns what virtue is. Such a man realises his faults. He takes himself to task because of his unworthy and evil qualities.... This is the second state or condition of the perceiving soul; it is the first stage of the progress of the soul to God. This repentance, this longing for the virtues of God, is the means whereby are acquired the inner sight of enlightenment.... Then he comprehends the mysteries of God; without instruction from any, he penetrates the real Divine mysteries; without a teacher he receives understanding and learns the realities of all things. When he has reached this stage he receives assurances and confirmations; he attains steadfastness and constancy....  When he has attained to this estate, he is satisfied; he is content in God into whatsoever conditions he may be thrown. This is for him the state of contentment in God. He feels himself drawn into the ocean of grace. At that time, also, God is content with him. The host of the Supreme Concourse is content with him. The angels of heaven (of course, when I say "angels," I mean holy human souls) are content with him. He himself will be one of the angels, whether in or out of the body. In this estate he becomes a centre for receiving the power of the Holy Spirit. In this estate his spirit bears to the Holy Spirit the relation which, before, his body bore to his spirit. He becomes like a polished mirror. When he speaks, he gives forth the rays of the Sun of Reality. All the light which is reflected from this mirror is the light of the Holy Spirit. Therefore was it that Jesus counselled his disciples to speak and teach without fear, since the Holy Spirit would come to them and put words into their mouths. ABU0464


Not every heart is capable of acting as a repository for divine love. For not every soul is suited for growing wondrous herbs--only the heart of a human being who continues to bear the trustworthiness of the All-Merciful and to give the fruit of wisdom and eloquence. Blessed be the All-Merciful, who is endued with grace and beneficence. Not everyone who has the form of a human being is worthy of the Most Great Panorama, nor will such a one necessarily be accounted a human being before God. For all who remain bereft of the robe of mystical insight are reckoned as beasts of the field by God.  BH10402

we can not know the spiritual life unless we are happy!  ABU3544

Reveal Thyself, O Lord, and help me to look evermore to Thy Beauty.  BH11201

with a pure heart, an illumined breast, a sanctified tongue and a penetrating vision   BH09019

The thirsty one must run after the water; the fountain will not run after those who are thirsty.  ABU3760

I testify, at this moment, to my powerlessness and to Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy wealth.  BH11209

They entered the two dark gardens - the garden of recognition and the garden of love and rapture.  AB10804

And if that second person is also conscious and repentant, return unto Us is easier than slumber.  AB11252

May the peace of God be with those who have been guided aright through the power of divine guidance.  BB00486

that thou mayest be vigilant lest there cross thy mind that which would extinguish the fire of His heart  BB00567

O Ears of this Temple! Purge yourselves from all idle clamour and hearken unto the melodies of your Lord.  BH00007

Each of that beloved one's relatives has drunk from the sealed wine and attained special grace before God.  BH00023

Therefore it behooveth him who entereth beneath its shadow to be likewise, if thou be of them that bear witness.  BH11383

You all must work to write spiritual articles in these sorts of newspapers, and make a significant mark thereby.  ABU3740

Rest thou assured that 'Abdu'l-Baha's love for thee is a sincere and true love, and thou thyself dost testify to this.  AB11163


is conducive to the attainment of the good pleasure of the Almighty and the descent of the confirmation by the Exalted Lord  AB11536

But you must become believing and assured, and the light of the love of God must radiate from you, for the prayer to have effect.  AB08782

Hold fast to the sure handle of the blessed word Fear God: God will teach you. When fear of God is attained, knowledge is present.  BH00701

The laws and commandments of God have been and ever shall be the cause of the tranquility and comfort of the peoples of the world.  BH08567

clinging to the hem of grandeur, concentrate your thoughts and remembrance, day and night, upon service to the All-Forgiving Lord.  AB03547

All of you may help each other and be ever ready to sacrifice your lives for each other. This is the quality of the people of Baha.  AB11431

The near ones to the threshold of the Almighty have ever, in this earthly realm, been sanctified and detached from wealth and riches.  AB10843

Purify thy sight that it may behold the truth, then thy heart that it may comprehend what the tongue of grandeur and majesty uttereth   BH02974

Turn thy face sincerely toward God; be severed from all save God; be ablaze with the fire of the love of God; be purified and sanctified  AB11301

Praise be to God that family had seeing eyes and ears privy to mysteries.  AB08024

Under all conditions place thy trust in God and conduct thyself with the utmost gentliness and forbearance toward thy relatives and others.  BH06478

It behooveth the Friend to be tranquil, that he may hold fast to wisdom lest mischief arise. Thus hath the matter been decreed in the Book.  BH10508

those who swim only on the surface of this sea will be cast off but those who submerge themselves in the depth will become its eternal inmates   ABU2636

Could ye know how my soul glows with your love, so great a happiness would flood your hearts as to cause you to become enamored with each other.  AB11451

Therefore in gratitude for this great bounty, we must strive night and day until we acquire virtues worthy of the servants of the Blessed Beauty.  AB02152

O seeker of truth! Polish the mirror of your heart clean of the rust and dust of this mortal world and turn it toward the celestial realm on high  AB05225

Blessed is the soul that, with ears purified from the tales of the people and the stories of old, hath sought to hearken and hath attained thereunto  BH04934

live in accord with the Teachings of Baha'u'llah and that is:  real love for the world of humanity and the utmost of kindness for the believers of God.  AB11423


The heart that is sanctified from concerns and desires, and the tongue that is purified from mentioning aught else, is worthy of remembrance and mention.  BH03705


The greatest means for attaining these stations is spiritual purity, detachment, sanctity, severance from all else but God, and forgetfulness of all save Him.  AB05890

O servant! Guard thyself lest Satan's self cause thee to slip from the path of the All-Merciful. Then stand firm in the Cause and be under a desired protection.  BH11290

The effulgences of the light of the Sun of knowledge requireth another eye to behold them, and the call raised from the most exalted station requireth another ear.  BH02969

Take hold of the Book with the strength bestowed by Us in such wise that neither the clamor of the world nor the doubts of any veiled learned one shall deter thee.  BH03705

The provisions for this journey are truthfulness, uprightness, humility, and lowliness. This is the reality of the situation, so choose for yourself what you wish.  AB04652

This confession of powerlessness and humility is the essence of true knowledge in the eyes of them that possess divine verities and mysteries in the world of being.  AB03855

The sign of human manifestation is the purity of reality and the light of the heart, and the radiance of love and affection emanates from that sign of manifestation.  BH02652

If thou wert to occupy thyself in praise and thanksgiving to the number of the drops of the seas and the atoms of the earth, it would not equal this most great bounty.  BH11487

The heavens of thy mercy and the oceans of thy bounty are so vast that thou hast never disappointed those who begged of thee nor refused those who willed to come to thee!  BH11453

O Lord! Cause his tongue to speak through the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and perfume the gardens of his inner being with the outpourings from the clouds of Thy bounties.  AB11320

I supplicate God to make thine eyes spiritual, thy ears attentive and hearing to the Voice of God, and thy heart a pure mirror for the reflection of the splendors of Deity  AB05939

Purify thou, first, thy soul with the waters of renunciation, and adorn thine head with the crown of the fear of God, and thy temple with the ornament of reliance upon Him.  BH00005

The world is evanescent and all that is seen therein shall pass away. Strive ye that ye may attain unto everlasting stations and an enduring remembrance and an eternal name.  BH11190

He that partaketh of the waters of My Revelation will taste all the incorruptible delights ordained by God from the beginning that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end.  BH11455

Blessed are they whom the smoke of idle fancies hath not deprived of the effulgent rays of the Sun of certitude, and whom vain imaginings have not kept back from the Lord of Days.  BH11387

Every soul who has tasted the sweetness of the love of God, who has awaited the appearance of the Kingdom of God, and who has turned to the most exalted horizon, has entered therein.  AB08364

Unless this union is brought about, the Breath of the Holy Spirit shall not have any effect, for the physical body must find capacity so that the life of the Spirit may breathe through it.  AB08188

If ye were certain that this is Him Whom God shall make manifest, ye would believe without doubt and would aid Him. But ye doubt without proof or evidence, and think yourselves God-fearing.  BB00003

The divine who hath seized and quaffed the most holy Wine, in the name of the sovereign Ordainer, is as an eye unto the world. Well is it with them who obey him, and call him to remembrance.  BH11367

This is not the Day for questions. It behooveth every soul, when he heareth the Call from the Supreme Horizon, to say: Here am I, O Lord of Names! Here am I, O Fashioner of earth and heaven!  BH01779

Enable me, then, to obtain a seat of truth in Thy presence, bestow upon me a token of Thy mercy and let me join with such of Thy servants as shall have no fear nor shall they be put to grief.  BB00554

Today the banner of divine victory calls, and likewise the standard of transcendent glory, but the hosts beneath this standard are wisdom and utterance, and their commander is the fear of God.  BH11379

Those souls who are in that assembly before their entrance therein must be adorned with utmost purity, turn their faces toward the Kingdom of ABHÃ and enter with infinite humility and meekness  AB07821


We have created the tongue for the recitation of My verses, and the eyes for turning towards My direction, and the ears for hearkening unto My Call which hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven.  BH11451

Today, whosoever desireth to enter the depths of the ocean of divine oneness must sanctify his heart from the stories of old, that the effulgences of the Sun of Truth may shine upon it and illumine it.  BH03589

Cleanse your eyes from the ophthalmia of turning away, that ye may witness the lights of the Manifestation, and purify your ears from unseemly words, that ye may hearken to the divine call at all times.  BH08495

They have purified their countenances for Thee, have detached themselves from all else but Thee, have been illumined by Thy light and warmed themselves at the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy Manifestation.  AB06551

The All-Merciful will not question you on the Day of Resurrection about what they do for themselves, but God will question you about what ye do in secret and in public, and God is indeed aware of what ye do.  BB00002

O Lord! Purify them, O my God, from the promptings of self and passion, and adorn them with the ornament of Thy good-pleasure, O Thou Lord of all humanity and King of the throne on high and of the dust below.  BH11607

O my Lord! Confirm this revered personage, that he may attain the Essential Purpose; travel in these Seven Valleys; enter the silent chamber of realities and significances, and enter the Kingdom of Mysteries.  AB11288

Know, O servants of God, the Light hath come to you from God, the Exalted, in truth mighty and resplendent, that ye may seek of His grace what God hath ordained in His dominion, in truth by truth, as a decree.  BB00002

The text lists spiritual qualities needed: "whose conduct is pure, whose inner being is goodly, whose reality is refined, whose hearts are expanded, whose souls are perfected, whose spirits are devoted to God"  AB01030

Whoso hath not purified his heart and his breast and his sight and his hearing from that which he possesseth, he shall not be able to understand what hath been revealed in truth in the Tablets of manifest glory.  BH00004

Purify thyself from all save God, then take the cup of faithfulness from the Youth of Glory through My Most Exalted Name. Drink thou therefrom, then give the people to drink of this holy, pure, and radiant nectar.  BH11255

We counsel thee to be steadfast in this momentous Announcement... Aid thy Lord through the fear of God through deeds from which the near ones perceive the fragrance of thy Lord's commandments, the Ancient Commander.  BH08017

However, the station of those souls who have turned to the Truth with perfect steadfastness and certitude is known and evident before God. These are they who have borne the Word of God and heard with attentive ears.   BH02796

O thou who gazest upon His Countenance! Adorn thy heart with the remembrance of this Most Great Remembrance, and thy temple with the ornament of detachment. Thus hast thou been commanded by the Creator of all things.  BH04736

Mayest thou grow and develop in the meadow of graces and become green and verdant in the orchard of understanding; in the Garden of Oneness mayest thou become the incomparable tree and the flower of the Court of Unity.  AB12570

Through them man is exalted, and the door of security is unlocked before the face of all creation. Happy the man that cleaveth fast unto them, and recognizeth their virtue, and woe betide him that denieth their station.  BH00005

Pilgrimage must take place in a state of utmost entreaty and fervent supplication, otherwise it is not pilgrimage and merely a tour. Pilgrimage must be in a condition of supplication for it to have benefit and influence.  ABU0920

One must have insight to gaze upon the Most Great Horizon. Hearts and eyes that are veiled and sullied by the signs and limitations of men shall never succeed in comprehending divine knowledge, save whom thy Lord willeth.  BH04610

Through them the believers in the Divine Unity have turned towards Him Who is the Object of the adoration of the entire creation, and by them the hearts of the righteous have found rest and composure, could ye but know it!  BH00007

This palace has as its foundation the call to the Kingdom of God, its chambers are the teachings of Baha'u'llah, its adornments are the virtues of the human world, and its bright lamps are the lights of the Divine Kingdom.  AB04346

Were ye to discover the sweet-scented breezes of your Lord's love in that which hath been sent down in truth, ye would soar upon the wings of yearning through all regions and would arise to help this wronged and lonely One.  BH08226

Purify, then, the mirror of thy heart that this Beauty, radiant, brilliant and gleaming, might be reflected therein, that thou mayest witness what thou hast not witnessed before and know what none among the worlds hath known.  BH11417

I beseech Thee at this moment by that Name through which Thou hast guided them that know Thee to the Dayspring of Thy revelation and inspiration, and drawn them that are sincere unto Thee to the shores of Thy grace and favors   BH04742

This association must gradually attain such organization and connection that truly no similar association shall have been established from the beginning of history until now...otherwise it will be fruitless and without result.  AB10593

If this Tablet be concealed from those who are not worthy of it, it would be most fitting, for the truly blind one is not capable of beholding the spiritual Sun, and the truly deaf one is not worthy of hearing the divine melody  BH01904

This servant beseeches God to increase their sincerity, humility, submissiveness, resignation and contentment, and to assist them in performing good deeds. Verily, He is the Generous, the Bountiful, the Forgiving, the Merciful.  BH09737

By God, besides Whom there is none other God! If the veil were lifted in the slightest degree, and if all the earth were offered to a single soul to cause the least harm to the loved ones of God, that soul would assuredly refuse.  BH00807

And shouldst Thou behold, O my God, any branch, leaf, or fruit upon Me that hath failed to bow down before Him, on the day of His Revelation, cut it off, O My God, from that Tree, for it is not of Me, nor shall it return unto Me.  BB00596

Pure love hath emboldened this servant to be forthright and submit matters with utmost brevity. It is observed that mention of certain matters is necessary, nay obligatory, for souls of the idolaters exert their utmost to cast doubts.  BH06131

In this day must the friends take hold of such means as will conduce to victory, attraction and acceptance, that the servants of the earth may draw nigh and attain unto the hearing of that for which the ear was created from nothingness.  BH07362

Rather must one continually say Lord, increase my wonderment in Thee, for human perfections are a bounty from the infinite divine bounties. Standing still is not permitted; rather, progress must be continuous, else after halting comes the descent.  AB08480

As long as one has not taken a portion of the Mystery of Sacrifice it is impossible for him to attain the Kingdom of God. So long as you do not have the cup free from every sort of liquor, it is impossible that you put good and pure water therein.  ABU0313

Today, those souls are confirmed by the outpourings of the Abha Kingdom and the confirmations of the Supreme Realm who banish every thought and fancy from themselves, become detached from every desire, and strive to raise the call of divine unity.  AB08906

Therefore in all things look to the Essence of essences and the Beauty of all beauty, if ye be able to comprehend. For that is none other than Him Whom God shall make manifest, Who will speak to you the two words whereby ye shall comprehend all beauty.  BB00003

O servant, stand firm in the Cause when there cometh unto thee a mighty command and a perspicuous Book. Beware lest thou turn unto the world and what hath been created therein, and turn not thy gaze from the vision of God, the Most High, the Great.  BH02557

God beareth witness that there is no God but Him. Say: They who purify their hearing, their sight, their hearts, their tongues and their hands - unless their hearts bear witness to that which God hath permitted in His Book - these are they who fear God.  BB00004

But when the friends have the intention of entering into these meetings they must disengage the heart from all other reflections, ask the Inexhaustible Divine Confirmation, and with the utmost devotion and humility set their feet in the gathering-place.  AB09121

When the heart is purified and sanctified by the water of Divine unity, its words become penetrating, its utterance attractive, and its mention stirring -- yet not a stirring that gives rise to mischief, but rather one that brings tranquility to the world.  BH03223

Before entering the Sacred Shrine every one should perform ablution and be clean and pure in body, soul, mind and even his outward apparels. His heart must be purified from all worldly feelings and his consciousness be cleansed from all unholy suggestions.  ABU3392

Rend asunder the veils by the command of the Lord of Names and Attributes, and fear not those who have denied God, the Lord of the First and the Last. Take thou the chalice of immortality in My Most Glorious Name, then drink therefrom the most pure Kawthar.  BH04850

Turn ye toward the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, for this shall profit you. When it is joined unto your remembrance, your mention shall be established throughout all regions, shall be confirmed throughout all cycles, and your word shall be fulfilled throughout all ages.  BB00005

Souls must be believing and assured so they may arise to follow those teachings. Until souls are believing and assured, they will not arise to follow those teachings. First, faith is necessary. Until faith is achieved, following the Cause will not be achieved.  ABU0519

Whoso knoweth not his own station knoweth not his Lord. In any case, these servants who have been reared by the divine hands of training and who dwell beneath the Tree of divine education neither wished nor wish to answer such words as yours to one such as you.  BH00004

The ears were created to hearken unto this Call and the eyes to behold this luminous horizon. By God! The hearts were created to turn toward the Most Exalted Horizon and the souls to humble themselves at the manifestation of God's proof, the Lord of the worlds.  BH06633

Therefore we beseech God that He may send a sweet-scented breeze from the paradise of His good-pleasure upon the people of possibility, that it may purify and sanctify all from the dust of disobedience and turn them toward the holy direction of the All-Merciful.  BH00004

Blessed is he who effaceth from the tablet of his heart all that he hath heard from the veils of glory, and, sanctified from impressions, doubts and allusions, turneth toward the horizon of the Lord of Names and Attributes, and findeth himself free and detached.  BH06068

In truth, today relationships are severed. Whatever is deemed beneficial to the Cause and conducive to the exaltation of the Word, that should be pursued. Praise be to God, you have been under the shadow of the Cause for years and are counted among the righteous.  BH10756

By Thy might! All knowledge was created for this, and all wisdom was endowed for this. Yet all remain veiled save those from whom Thou hast removed the veils and shown them the creation of their souls through what Thou hast revealed to them in the Sacred Scrolls.  BB00409

Assuredly the hope of the wanderers at the threshold of Divine Oneness shall be answered, and what is needed is humility and entreaty at the court of the Incomparable Lord in all matters, for supplication and trust in God cause successive aid and grace to arrive.  AB10684

He who desireth to ascend unto the heaven that ruleth over all heavens must be detached from the world and its vanities, its affairs, its bounties, its adornments, its doubts, its allusions, and its tales. Thus have We made manifest the Way and sent down the Guide.  BH02960

When they turn towards the Abha Kingdom and receive the outpourings of the Holy Spirit, the verities and meanings surge like an ocean in their hearts. Therefore, draw forth whatsoever thou desirest from the bounty of thy Lord, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate.  AB12002

The love of God is like unto the rays of the sun - until the mirror is freed from rust, the rays of the sun cannot be manifested and visible therein, for the manifestation of the sun's rays, which is the love of God, is conditional upon the mirror's delicacy and purity.  AB06283

Pilgrimage has to do with one's soul and, depending on one's approach, one benefits accordingly. If one was to approach pilgrimage with the utmost devotion and consecration, then spiritual rapture would appear and benefits would be manifested. Otherwise, it is of no use.   ABU2056

Every shadow save the shadow of Truth is utter darkness, and every fortress more fragile than a spider's web. Seek thou a companion who will at every moment refresh and revive thee with divine fragrances, not one who will render thee listless, neglectful, idle and lifeless.  AB05311

Be thou eloquent with wisdom, remembering with wisdom, and associating with wisdom. Thus hath commanded He Who is powerful over the Cause. Verily, the Cause is as heaven and wisdom is as the sun shining from its horizon. Blessed is he who hath turned unto them both together.  BH10197

Were the world of the spirit to be wholly converted into the sense of hearing, it could then claim to be worthy to hearken unto the Voice that calleth from the Supreme Horizon; for otherwise, these ears that are defiled with lying tales have never been, nor are they now, fit to hear it.  BH00005

Despite such might whereby through one word from His Most Exalted Pen He seized the Chief and those who had wronged, and rained down upon them from the clouds of destiny the arrows of tribulation in such wise that the tribes lamented - thou beholdest Him today, silent, calm, and patient.  BH01760

From your determined intention to spread the holy fragrances among the tribes, the utmost joy was obtained. For today the hosts of the Kingdom confirm such persons and souls who, like fierce lions in the jungle of the world, raise their cry and roar and surge forth, and strive and endeavor.  AB09397

This is so that ye may testify concerning your own selves that ye are indeed the creation of God, that He is the Possessor of all things, that ye are His servants, and that ye worship Him alone. This is so that ye may believe in God and bear witness that all else besides Him is His creation.  BB00004

Fear ye the All-Merciful, O servants, and perform good deeds abundantly for the sake of God, the True One. O servants of the All-Merciful! Don your adornments at every place of worship - such is God's decree for you in that Gate, in truth and by truth, as hath been ordained in the Mother Book.  BB00002

If you act according to the counsels of Baha'u'llah, be assured that spiritual fragrances will perfume your nostrils, the rays of the Sun of Truth will shine upon your heart and soul, and you will succeed in serving the world of humanity, for kindness to all is worship of the All-Glorious Lord.  AB05727

Give a portion of thine illumination to this yearning servant and exhilarate his spirit. Disencumber his heart from attachment to clay. Render him radiant as a flower, make him tearful with joy as pouring clouds so that he may burn in the fire of Thy love and sing Thy praises with sweet melodies.  AB10274

Think not that you are capable, for the water of this Path is finer than the water of detachment in the glass veins of hearts. Lo, I sprinkle upon you from this water that your soul may be certain through witnessing this pure water, and that it may establish you upon this Path with true certainty.  BB00019

Be thankful to God for having enabled you to recognize His Cause. Whoever has received this blessing must, prior to his acceptance, have performed some deed which, though he himself was unaware of its character, was ordained by God as a means whereby he has been guided to find and embrace the Truth.  BHU0002

As to the means of attaining a goodly end, one must shun pride and vainglory, must regard self-admiration as abhorrent, must be abashed at all times, must be detached from the promptings of self and passion, must keep aloof from the people of lethargy and pride, and must remain firm in the Covenant.  AB12016

Man needs a firm foundation and resolve like iron. Therefore one must open one's eyes to the Kingdom of God and close them to created things. One must behold the Fire of Sinai and the radiance of the Star of the Supreme Concourse, fixing one's gaze upon the Abha Kingdom rather than the lowest depths.  AB04691

You have come here among the first and your reward is great. There are two visits; the first is for a blessing; the ye come and are blessed and are sent forth to work in God's vineyard; the second ye come with music and the banners flying, like soldiers, in gladness and triumph to receive your reward.  ABU1324

Close thine eyes to all who are in the heavens and on earth, save those whom thou findest upon the straight line in this crimson Thread. Beyond this, turn not to anyone, but remain in a mighty sanctity. And if thou findest a pure, holy and luminous heart, cast upon it that which God hath cast upon thy heart  BH01904

He had heard that the Bab wore a green turban, as did all the descendants of Muhammad. This believer went to see the Bab, and he looked for the green turban. It so happened that just before his arrival the Bab had taken off his green turban, putting on instead, a Persian cap. So the man did not recognize Him.  ABU1734

Know the preciousness of this favor! Inhaling this air and being in such a place was not granted to others or decreed for them. It is only out of the grace and beneficence of the Blessed Beauty that we have attained unto this mercy and become the recipients of He bestows His bounty upon whomsoever He wisheth.  ABU2213

This bounty is attained through adherence to the divine counsels and exhortations. And if man doth not attain unto this most exalted station, he is assuredly more abject than the darkest stone. Therefore, strive with heart and soul to conduct yourselves in accordance with the divine counsels and exhortations.  AB07315

Many souls recite them but never think of acting upon them. I hope that the friends of that village will act according to them so that village may become renowned as Baha-Abad (the Abode of Light), and the lights of unity may so shine forth that it may become a tower of light and a dawning-place of mysteries.  AB08981

They do not realize they are on a pilgrimage to a holy place--and that they must pray much before they can understand it. If they do not pray before arriving, they must pray after they come here, but you have been forced to pray for guidance during the entire route, and so you are filled with the sense of prayer.  ABU3702

These, O my God, are servants whose inner secrets have been purified, whose hearts have found rest, whose consciences have been cleansed by the lights of Thy unity, whose character has been beautified by the fragrances of Thy holiness, and whose eyes have been gladdened by beholding the signs of Thy divine unity.  AB03558

The way to acquire this thirst is to meditate upon the future life. Study the Holy Words, read your Bible, read the Holy Books, especially study the Holy Utterances of Baha'u'llah; Prayer and Meditation, take much time for these two. Then will you know this Great Thirst, and then only can you begin to Live the Life!  AB04630

Purify thy heart from aught else but Me, then read what hath been revealed unto thee, that it may preserve thee from sorrows in this time when the heaven hath come with manifest smoke. Guard thyself through My Name the Preserver lest the darts of Satan strike thee and make thee far removed from the seat of nearness.   BH02088

Therefore speak ye when ye lie down and when ye rise up: We believe in God, the One, the Single, the Alone, the Self-Subsisting, beside Whom there is no God, the All-Subduing, the Self-Subsisting, that on the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest ye may not be veiled from Him Who appeareth in those mirrors of names.  BB00003

God willing, thou wilt observe with thine own eyes and ponder with the utmost fairness upon that which hath been revealed, that perchance the hand of divine bounty may take hold of thee, grant thee deliverance from the depths of idle fancies and vain imaginings, and guide thee to the dawning-place of certitude.  BH10225

Fear ye God regarding Our trusts within you, and preserve them as ye would preserve yourselves - a beautiful preservation in truth and by truth. If ye are unable, then return it to God, the True One, and cast it behind the Red Sea in the realm of blindness, and conceal it at the pole of glory upon Mount Sinai in truth.  BB00002

I ask of Thee, O Lord, my God, by the splendours of the Light of Thy Lovingkindness, by the billows of the Ocean of Thy Knowledge and Wisdom, and by Thy Word wherewith Thou swayed the peoples of Thy Dominion, to cause me to become of them that have been graciously aided to observe that which Thou hast commanded in Thy Book.  BH03965

The essential principles of His healing remedies are the knowledge and love of God, severance from all else save God, turning our faces in sincerity toward the Kingdom of God, implicit faith, firmness and fidelity, loving-kindness toward all creatures and the acquisition of the divine virtues indicated for the human world.   ABU0790


O thou daughter of the Kingdom! Display ye the utmost charity toward the poor, the orphans and the helpless ones of all communities and nations and have ye for them exceeding consideration. Serve ye them like unto the real servants. Know ye them as excellent persons, and count yourselves day and night the thralls of mankind.  AB00308

And these bounties shall not be attained except through severance from all else save God, attraction to the fragrances of God, being set ablaze with the fire of the love of God, complete effacement and annihilation, humility and submissiveness before the beloved of God, service to the friends, and servitude to the loved ones.   AB02567

O handmaid of God! The light of truth shineth resplendent from the highest heaven and illumineth with brightness those pure hearts and minds that are like mirrors cleansed of rust. But as for hearts that are like black stones, they have no portion thereof. Alas for them! How great their regret! How grievous their manifest loss!  AB01279

Them who are not prevented by the veils of glory and their eyes are not obscured by the temporal allusions; they verily perceive the Cause with the eye of God. Naught will bar them from beholding His beauty and they verily ponder the signs of the Lord in the souls of the holy ones and meditate upon the wonders of His Revelation.  BH04695

Your several letters have been received and the contents have made me very happy. I have asked for confirmation for thee from the Kingdom of Abha because all the contents proved conclusively that thou art of the Kingdom; thou art divine, thou art heavenly and my dear daughter; night and day engaged in the service of the Kingdom.  AB06747

If we turn to the Kingdom of Abha, if we supplicate the Kingdom of Abha, if we be lead by the difficulties of Baha'Ullah, if we forget ourselves, if we shun all passions and desires and, in the utmost of humility and submissiveness rely on the Kingdom of Abha, if we achieve good deeds, undoubtedly quick results will be forthcoming   ABU0924

What oppression is greater than that which hath been recounted? What oppression is more grievous than that a soul seeking the truth, and wishing to attain unto the knowledge of God, should know not where to go for it and from whom to seek it? For opinions have sorely differed, and the ways unto the attainment of God have multiplied.  BH00002

Yea, an immortal ear is needed to hear the immortal Word, and an immortal eye is needed to behold the immortal Beauty, for that which is evanescent hath no path into the arena of eternity that it may comprehend the degrees of everlasting glory, and the abject one hath no portion of the cup of glory that he may step into His holy court.  BH07857

O Thou Who art the Lord of all names and the Maker of the heavens! I beseech Thee by them Who are the Day-Springs of Thine invisible Essence, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, to make of my prayer a fire that will burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light that will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.  BH00987

Therefore watch over thyself. And even if that matter does not appear by His command in the Book, yet when He Whom God shall make manifest testifies to thy being veiled in that matter - for He is more discerning than any discerning one and more subtle than any subtle one - He will judge thee as rejected even if He does not inform thee.  BB00005

Praise be to God, the hands of grace saved them and guided them from the wilderness of vain imaginings to the Dayspring of certitude. Through the grace of the True One, exalted be His glory, they have rent asunder the veils and barriers of conjecture and idle fancy, and have attained the effulgences of the light of the Luminary of certitude.  BH11608

Do thou think at all times to practice the Advices and Exhortations of God. If we characterize ourselves in a befitting manner with the Fragrances of Divine Holiness and live according to the instructions of the Blessed Perfection, undoubtedly we will hear with the ear of the mind, the melody of the Holy Spirit, and the Harmony of the Kingdom.  AB07208

It behooveth thee to detach thyself wholly unto God, thy Lord, in such wise that all the worlds shall come under thy shadow. This is the station We desired for Our servants aforetime and desire hereafter, that the grace might be fulfilled upon thee and upon those who preceded thee in this most mighty, most ancient, and most trustworthy station.  BH01776

Say: None may enter this most exalted station save with a pure heart, a sanctified mind, and a radiant countenance. This is the station wherein was raised the call of Moses when He said: "O Lord, show me Thy beauty," and heard: "Thou shalt not see Me," and the station wherein was raised the call of the Spirit and the call of them that are nigh.   BH01090

We hope that through these utterances of the King of names and attributes you may become somewhat purified from the limitations of self and the veils and allusions of rejected souls, so that if in the Day of Manifestation you do not assist the Truth, at least you will not unsheathe the sword against His Person nor issue the decree for His death.  BH00004

With fixed and steady gaze, born of the unerring eye of God, scan for a while the horizon of divine knowledge, and contemplate those words of perfection which the Eternal hath revealed, that haply the mysteries of divine wisdom, hidden ere now beneath the veil of glory and treasured within the tabernacle of His grace, may be made manifest unto you.  BH00002

Say: Who gave thee permission to take what God had ordained for His Proof and to spend it on the House or on those who know not God their Lord, or in the path of thine own self? And you would take possession of the house, or deal with those who know not God their Lord, or use it for your own purposes, thinking yourself to be among the sincere ones.  BB00003


Unto every discerning observer it is evident and manifest that had these people in the days of each of the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth sanctified their eyes, their ears, and their hearts from whatever they had seen, heard, and felt, they surely would not have been deprived of beholding the beauty of God, nor strayed far from the habitations of glory.  BH00002

Sanctify thine ears from the utterances of the deniers and thine eyes from gazing upon the faces of them that have disbelieved... And when thou hast adorned thyself with that which the Spirit hath bidden thee and purified thy soul with this Salsabil which hath flowed from the right hand of the Throne and doth purify the hearts of them that are nigh unto God  BH11525

It behooveth the people of Baha to exhort mankind through deeds and goodly character. In these days when the Euphrates of mercy is flowing and the pavilion of grace is raised up, this servant and your honor must at all times be occupied with improving our existence, so that all may adorn the world and its peoples with truthful words and pure and goodly deeds.  BH06414

For divine nearness is conditional upon the love of God; divine nearness is conditional upon attaining the knowledge of God; it depends on detachment from all else save God; divine nearness requires sacrifice of life; divine nearness requires the sacrifice of self, soul, and wealth in all conditions; divine nearness requires baptism by spirit, fire and water.  ABU0095

Praise be to God that through your good judgement and endeavour, Jahrum was preserved from the assaults of friend and foe. This was a confirmation from the Ancient Lord, and assuredly a new success shall be achieved - namely the diffusion of the divine fragrances and the promotion of the religion of God with the wisdom mentioned in the scriptures and tablets.  AB10465

One must at all times take refuge in truth, lest the armies of ignorance prevail over knowledge and wisdom, and the hosts of conjecture and doubt triumph over certitude. You must, through the power of the Lord of Names and Attributes, rend asunder all veils completely, in such wise that should all the world arise in opposition, it would but increase your certitude.  BH01852

Take thou the chalice of detachment, empty of all creation, then drink in His Name, the Protector of all possibility. Shouldst thou turn toward the Bird that singeth upon the branches of the Lote-Tree of Utterance, thou wouldst hear what thou hast never heard before, and longing would seize thee in such wise that thou wouldst call out His Name throughout the lands.  BH01184

Today the Most Great Luminary hath dawned from the horizon of the heaven of Iran. Praise be to God, exalted be His glory, Who hath assisted His servants and granted them success, that they might turn unto Him in days when most of the people of the earth were found to be heedless. They who have attained must know the value of this most great bounty and supreme generosity  BH08537

We beseech Thy tender mercies beneath the shade of the Divine Lote Tree, and implore eternal life through Thy mercy in the Garden of Paradise, entrance into Thy most secure shelter, steadfastness in Thy most perfect Covenant, attainment of the most abundant portion from the Fountain of Thy bounty, and firmness in Thy Cause whose laws have penetrated both earth and heaven.  AB01285

No man shall attain the shores of the ocean of true understanding except he be detached from all that is in heaven and on earth. Sanctify your souls, O ye peoples of the world, that haply ye may attain that station which God hath destined for you and enter thus the tabernacle which, according to the dispensations of Providence, hath been raised in the firmament of the Bayan.  BH00002

This servant testifies that they have repeatedly been counseled to conduct themselves among the servants of God with perfect morals, courtesy, truthfulness and sincerity. However, it is most essential that they act in accordance with the morals and conduct they have been enjoined to observe, that the fragrance of passing through the lane of the Friend may be inhaled from them.  BH01782

Purify thine eyes from beholding aught else but God, and sanctify thine ears from hearing any voice save His. Thus mayest thou observe with illumined vision the evidences of the manifestations of the Ancient Beauty in all things, and hear with purified ears His sweet melodies from every direction. This is the station wherein whosoever attaineth unto it hath attained unto all good.  BH11025

O Mahmud! Mighty is the Cause, yet the people are heedless, nay, as dead. Beseech God, exalted be His glory, that He may guide all to the Most Exalted Horizon and deprive them not of the breezes of His days. Blessed are they whom the wine of pride hath not withheld from the Lord of the Manifestation, and whom the cawing of the enemies hath not debarred from the Most Exalted Horizon.  BH11038

Those who appear from the holy horizon with hosts of angels, and who bring to life every decayed bone, will not believe nor will they be aware... They who have on this day entered the garden of the spirit, this court which hath appeared in this realm of immortality--these have been so overtaken by the holy fragrances that their eyes overflow with tears for love of God their Creator.  BH11415

Speak not according to desire, but be observers of truth, speakers of truth, and adherents of truth, that the lights of goodly deeds and praiseworthy character may encompass the world. The unseen hosts mentioned aforetime were and ever shall be praiseworthy character. This is the host of God and is mightier than the hosts of earth. Say: Open ye the cities of hearts with these mighty ones.  BH08994

Do not wonder at this and do not look at thine own capacity. The splendor of the Sun of Reality transforms the stone into the brilliant sapphire and the rain of the cloud of Mercy will clothe the naked tree with leaves, blossoms and fruits. But it is conditioned upon the fact that thou mayst forget thyself, shun self-adoration and with all thy heart become attracted to the Kingdom of Abha!  AB12573

That seeker must at all times put his trust in God, must renounce the peoples of the earth, detach himself from the world of dust, and cleave unto Him Who is the Lord of Lords. He must never seek to exalt himself above anyone, must wash away from the tablet of his heart every trace of pride and vainglory, must cling unto patience and resignation, observe silence, and refrain from idle talk.  BH00002

The God-fearing are those who grieve not anyone in all the worlds. And when they hear words they ponder them, then reflect, and if they comprehend not aught therein, they ask him who revealed it and judge not concerning him. These are they who fear God in religion and are sincere. If they understand not the words of one above them, they testify to their own powerlessness and judge not concerning him.  BB00003


I swear by My wronged Beauty Who is imprisoned in the well of envy and concealed in the pit of hatred, that if in any heart there be found the least trace of love for aught else but God, that soul shall never attain to the most distant seat and the most glorious horizon. And whosoever is found to have attachment to anything in the heavens or on earth shall surely be deprived of the dominion of My Cause.  BH11688

Now hear the divine verses in the Persian tongue. From the beginning of this Cause until now, We have summoned all on earth - kings and subjects, learned and ignorant - to the Lord of all beings, without any veil or barrier. The path is clear, the proof manifest, the verses revealed, and the evidences apparent. Yet the people cling to vain imaginings and remain heedless of the truth, save whom thy Lord willeth.  BH08144

Should all who dwell in the unseen and visible realms gather together and attempt to utter a word of their own making, when the money-changers of the Abha Kingdom separate pure gold from the adulterated and distinguish between them - the nostrils that are purified, perfumed and sweetened by holy fragrances will never be disturbed by changing, repugnant odors, nor will they be unsettled by the casting of doubts.  AB00561

Today all souls must regard themselves as between the fingers of the All-Merciful and move according to whatsoever He willeth. They must consider their own movement, will and desire as non-existent. Blessed is he who hath attained unto this most exalted station. Whosoever attaineth unto this lofty station in this Day is accounted among the people of Baha in the Tablet of eternity recorded by the Most Exalted Pen.  BH00584

Say: Whomsoever God preserveth from what He loveth not, these are they who fear Him, and whomsoever God inspireth with His good, these are they who are guided. Say: That which God is pleased with from you, these are the paths of righteousness if ye be God-fearing, not that with which your souls are pleased, for God desireth to teach you the paths of knowledge and wisdom that ye may be assured of God and His signs.  BB00004

"Unless there be thirst, the salutary water will not assuage. Unless the soul hungers, the delicious foods of the heavenly table will not give sustenance. Unless the eyes of perception be opened, the lights of the sun will not be witnessed. Until the nostrils are purified, the fragrance of the divine rose garden will not be inhaled. Unless the heart be filled with longing, the favors of the Lord will not be evident."  ABU0259

According to letters from the Holy Land you are safe and protected under the shelter of Truth, and this is a cause of joy. I hope that through the grace of the Blessed Beauty you may ever be stirred by the breeze from the rose-garden of His bounty, and that night and day you may supplicate and seek aid and protection from His Divine Unity, so that you may be assisted to attain the good-pleasure of the Blessed Beauty.  AB11367

If ye desire to distinguish truth from falsehood, then look unto those who believe in Him Whom God shall make manifest and those who, at the time of His manifestation, believe not. For these are the embodiments of truth in the Book of God, and those are the embodiments of falsehood in the Book of God. Therefore fear ye God, lest ye place yourselves outside of truth after ye have been raised up in the Bayan in the name of truth.  BB00003


Say not the words There is no God but God unless ye join with them the mention of the Messenger in every Dispensation, and then believe in what hath been ordained by the Messenger. Otherwise, all people in their religions utter these words and believe in their prophet with certitude. But when they are veiled from the subsequent Manifestation, their belief in the former one profiteth them not, even though they be sincere in their religion.  BB00005

Be patient, for verily the morn hath in truth dawned with luminous radiance from around the Sun. O Solace of the Eye! Deal not harshly with the people of blindness, for they are orphans bereft of the remembrance of the Most Great Remembrance. Guide them to the subtlest waters in a glass vessel most delicate, for they are indeed bondservants to the mystery, and thou art the Truth, possessed of great bounty, and God is witness over all things.  BB00002

My God, my God! I cover my face in the dust of lowliness and self-effacement, detaching myself from glory and pride, and press my brow seeking refuge at the Most Exalted Threshold, beseeching Thee to confirm Thy servant Mahmud in assisting Thy Cause, sheltered under the extended shade, gathered beneath the unfurled standard, acquiring the light of witness from the Lord of existence, leading to the approaching waters, seeking the proffered assistance.  AB03036

I implore the Lord of Hosts to increase thy faith day by day, to strengthen thee with His Holy Spirit, to grant thee capacity to acquire the lights of wisdom and knowledge, to make thee a herald of the Covenant in those regions, and to teach thee that which thou knowest not, until thou becomest a physician of bodies and souls - healing bodies with beneficial remedies and treating hearts and spirits with an antidote that quickeneth hearts and souls.  AB10696

The servant beseecheth his Lord to aid them to truthfulness and sincerity, trustworthiness and fidelity. We make mention of all Our loved ones and counsel them to observe trustworthiness, which is God's trust amongst all things, and righteousness, which God hath made a shelter for such of His servants as are nigh unto Him and a stronghold for such of His bondsmen as are sincere in their faith, and whatsoever will exalt their stations among the peoples.  BH10938

Through the grace and bounty of the Ancient Beauty, may my spirit be sacrificed for His loved ones, I hope that such a flame will be ignited from the land of Kha that will illumine all those regions. The days of life are passing and this lamp of life shall be extinguished. Therefore we must strive that when this lamp departs from the niche of contingent being, it may shine in the glass of the Kingdom and radiate in the gathering of the Concourse on High.  AB08400

If thou expandest the heart of any soul in His Cause, this is better for thee than every deed, since deeds are but branches of faith in Him and certitude in His Reality. Be thou not veiled from this most exalted attribute and lofty geometry, and be not veiled from the shadow. For when thou expandest the heart of any soul, thou wilt behold a satan in human form constricting the heart of another, desiring to cast doubt upon the Cause of Him Whom God shall make manifest.  BB00003

Now turn thou to the Kingdom, and through the power of the Word of God and steadfastness in His Covenant, raise the call to peace and reconciliation, that strife and conflict may be removed and that love and harmony may raise their standard in all regions of the world. Then assuredly wilt thou heal illnesses without payment or reward, deliver eloquent speeches, make lucid expositions, present clear proofs and arguments, and become an adornment to the world of humanity.  AB03464

This is the Day of vision and hearing, for the Call hath been raised, and the Most Exalted Horizon hath dawned and become manifest. Hearken unto the Voice of the Wronged One and hold fast unto that which beseemeth thee. Blessed is the soul that hath this day quaffed the choice wine of the utterance of the All-Merciful and been set ablaze with the fire of His love, in such wise that the unseemly words and sayings of the peoples have failed to deter him from the Ancient Lord.  BH00807

Purify thyself from the defilement of self and desire, that thou mayest attain unto everlasting ease. This ease is found in the shadow of Truth and naught else, for naught but His shadow is today accounted as aught but desert waste in the sight of God. We hope that God willing, thou wilt cleanse thy breast from the words and intimations of the idolaters, that it may become a place for the dawning of the lights of the Divine Unity, and be utterly freed from vain words and disputation.  BH00004

Say: The good-pleasure of Him Whom God shall make manifest is the good-pleasure of God, and whatever He detesteth is detested by God. Seek ye refuge in God's good-pleasure from that which God detesteth. Say: The signs of His good-pleasure are those who believe in Him and are convinced of His truth, while the signs of His displeasure are those who, when they hear the verses of God from His presence or behold the words of God from His presence, do not at once believe and are not convinced.  BB00003

If ye desire to drink of pure crystal waters then glorify God in your hearts and be assured of your Lord. And if ye desire to drink of milk whose taste changeth not, then give thanks unto God through His remembrance, and praise Him in your spirits, and believe in the Messenger of God. And if ye desire to drink of crimson wine then profess the unity of God and believe in the Imams of Truth. And if ye desire to drink of clarified honey then magnify God and exalt Him and believe in the Gates of Guidance from God.  BB00004

The differences among the loved ones have caused the greatest sorrow. O Zayn! Can the lips of the Spirit smile in the Most Exalted Paradise while the lips of God do not part due to the sorrows that have befallen Him? Thou seest Me among all, while He seeth Me as one alone among the servants. Beseech God that those who have turned to Him may become aware of His good-pleasure. For if awareness is attained, none would transgress what God hath willed, nor would they open their lips to that which beseemeth not His days.  BH03024

Therefore, O thou sanctified servant, immerse thyself in the depths of this sea, but thou must enter the fathomless deep naked and bare, in such wise that thou close thine eyes to the world and purify thine ears from the clamor of the people of aversion and denial, and, sanctified from all the people of the world and whatsoever is therein, enter into this Most Great Sea and Mightiest Deep, that thou mayest attain unto the mysteries deposited therein and the pearls that lie hidden, concealed by the Sovereign of the Cause.  BH04245

Your detailed letter sent through Wilhelm, that distinguished herald of Truth, Mr. Fazel, upon him be Baha'u'llah's glory, was received. Its contents were as sweet as honey, filling the heart and soul with endless delight. Praise be to God that, as explicitly promised to you, divine confirmations and heavenly assistance have encompassed you from all directions. Today, detachment from all save God, attraction to the divine fragrances, and complete sanctification and purification are the magnets that attract divine confirmation.  AB06700

O Khalil! Stand firm in this fire and let not the greatness of the Cause nor its mighty signs prevent thee from entering it. Turn not thy gaze upon anyone in this Day, even if he be the essence of creation among all worlds. Close thine eyes to all thou dost witness and behold in this Day, and to all that thou hast done and known aforetime of the veils of fancy and tradition. Then open them, through the light of lights and the spirit of spirits and the radiance of radiances, unto this resplendent, luminous, and shining prospect.  BH00327

The Blessed Perfection said that everyone who wishes to know God and to recognize His Prophets, must empty his heart, cleanse it of all evil and worldly things, make it a clear mirror so that the Light of God can fall clearly upon it, reflecting a perfect image, and so also that the love of God can fill it. Man must forget everything, cleanse his heart from all worldly things, so that he has no care for anything in this world; he must put aside all his own prejudices and be a clear, clean mirror upon which the Sun of Truth can shine.  ABU0320

There are those who believe that the cause of salvation is none other than a confession of Divine Unity. There are those who say: "This is not sufficient. Belief in Divine Unity must be combined with righteous deeds as prescribed by the All-Merciful." There are still others who aver that the above must be combined with a most praiseworthy character blessed by God. And yet again there are those who assert that one must encompass all the grades of spiritual perfection and attain the beauty of an inner conscience before one can be truly saved.   AB07542

today in the hearts of men the flames of conscience and of God are quenched and the obscurity of the animal world, namely, the characteristics and requisites of the world of nature, are all-surrounding and paramount.  All peoples are captives of nature and thus effort with heart and soul, must be exerted in order to emancipate from this thralldom of nature the world of humanity and cause it to become the manifestation of the Light of the Realm of Reason and of the Kingdom; that they may not be satisfied with the few days of life in this earthly abode but rather seek everlasting life and eternal glory and sovereignty.  AB01120

If thou seekest ease, hearken to this true utterance which declares: Purify thyself from the defilement of self and desire, that thou mayest attain unto everlasting ease. This ease is found in the shadow of Truth and naught else, for naught but His shadow is today accounted as aught but desert waste in the sight of God. We hope that God willing, thou wilt cleanse thy breast from the words and intimations of the idolaters, that it may become a place for the dawning of the lights of the Divine Unity, and be utterly freed from vain words and disputation.  BH00004

Those who merely seek for ease in this material world will be unable to harvest the full fruits from life's tree but those embodiments of true love, those symbols of spiritual recognition and such as are personifications of the divine attributes will always yearn for a myriad calamities in His path. They will see suffering as pure mercy punishment as generosity, torture as a soothing drink and pain as a remedy. Their very wounds will be a balm to them and their sickness the essence of well being. They will hasten to the field of martyrdom and give up their lives with joy.  AB03201

We counsel thee to don the robe of modesty, that thou mayest not cause grief to any soul forever. For hadst thou not earned what thou didst earn, God would not have sent down such a book upon thee, causing all who read it to curse thee until the Day of Resurrection. Fear God with true fear, lest thou be veiled on the day of Him Whom God shall make manifest from God Who created thee, sustained thee, causeth thee to die and giveth thee life, by being veiled from a Soul Who showeth forth clear signs from His presence, that thou mayest be among those who are saved on that day.  BB00003


For man is like unto a tree, and trees yield diverse fruits. A goodly tree must needs bring forth delectable fruits, that its true nature and essence may emerge from behind the veil of potentiality and become clear and manifest. For this is the age of resurrection and gathering, when the reality of all things becomes evident and apparent. Every blessed tree must needs bear sweet and sugary fruit, and this fruit is love and kindness, heavenly attachment, divine bounty, attraction to the luminous Beauty, godly conduct and behavior, conscientious character, fellowship with all humanity, truthfulness and trustworthiness, pure intention, and service to every ruler and subject, every leader and follower.  AB02952




Arise and take it with spirit and fragrance, then recite it with the melody of the heart. By My life! It will draw thee to the heaven of the mercy of thy Lord, the All-Merciful.   BH03715


The spiritual understanding is as a lighted lamp; all the prophets offered themselves as lamps. Those men around them who heard their voice were those who were capable and desirous of hearing them.  ABU2100

The seeing mystic perceiveth, from a single blessed and decisive Word that appeareth from the Dayspring of the Divine Will, all that is befitting this Day. Gaze with penetrating vision and hearken with attentive ear.  BH08122

The companions of Joseph who sat with him nightly upon the same carpet and were his constant associates in all days remained deprived of his sweet fragrance, while the nostrils of Jacob the beloved perceived it from afar.   BH00507

may you receive your portion from the divine fragrances of His days and become the cause of exalting the Word of God, that all may attain unto the Most Great Ocean and be freed from the veils of imitation and vain imaginings.  BH03921


Therefore must lofty hearts be cleansed and sanctified from all veils, that they might enter the vast and spacious sanctuary of the holy Paradise, that perchance they may receive a portion and be enlightened by the wondrous melodies of the Eternal Dove   BH08865

It is easy to read the Holy Scriptures, but it is only with a clean heart and a pure mind that one may understand their true meaning. Let us ask God's help to enable us to understand the Holy Books. Let us pray for eyes to see and ears to hear, and for hearts that long for peace.  ABU0473

O people of the earth, hearken unto the divine call on this luminous Day, and meditate upon His Cause, and with the ear of your innate nature hear that which hath been sent down from the heaven of His Will, that haply ye may attain unto your goal and be blessed with His presence.   BH10662

If there remaineth in thine ear a single word of all that hath been mentioned in creation, the Word of thy Lord will not enter therein, for it cannot be joined with aught else. None comprehendeth this save Our chosen servants. And should it enter, thou wilt not find its sweetness, nor wilt thou attain unto the treasures of meaning and mysteries that lie concealed therein.   BH01126

In truth, if one were to reflect even briefly, in every word of God's utterances one would behold an ocean of bounty. The veiled, heedless, and corrupt natures perceive not the song of the nightingale and turn not to the rose-garden of divine knowledge. He who has given his heart to croaking knows not the value of the choice wine, and he who has drunk from and grown accustomed to the brackish, bitter pool will not turn to the water of life - he has been and will forever be deprived thereof, unless the hand of grace should seize him and through the blessing of the breath of pure and assured souls he find his way to God's straight path.  BH00093


Act in accordance with the counsels of the Lord: that is, rise up in such wise, and with such qualities, as to endow the body of this world with a living soul, and to bring this young child, humanity, to the stage of adulthood. So far as ye are able, ignite a candle of love in every meeting, and with tenderness rejoice and cheer ye every heart. Care for the stranger as for one of your own; show to alien souls the same loving kindness ye bestow upon your faithful friends. Should any come to blows with you, seek to be friends with him; should any stab you to the heart, be ye a healing salve unto his sores; should any taunt and mock at you, meet him with love. Should any heap his blame upon you, praise ye him; should he offer you a deadly poison, give him the choicest honey in exchange; and should he threaten your life, grant him a remedy that will heal him evermore. Should he be pain itself, be ye his medicine; should he be thorns, be ye his roses and sweet herbs. Perchance such ways and words from you will make this darksome world turn bright at last; will make this dusty earth turn heavenly, this devilish prison place become a royal palace of the Lord -- so that war and strife will pass and be no more, and love and trust will pitch their tents on the summits of the world. Such is the essence of God's admonitions; such in sum are the teachings for the Dispensation of Baha. AB00915

Today two things are essential for the friends of God: first, the refinement of character, luminosity of qualities and divine behavior; second, the diffusion of the divine fragrances and the promotion of goodly deeds.  AB06263


The manifestations in creation are the daysprings of the favours of the all-merciful Lord and the world is the revealer of the mysteries of Adam. It is conjoined with virtues, perfections, merits and bountiful gifts.   AB03914

If you want to enter the Kingdom of God, you must first rid yourself of all the gloomy characteristics of the world of dust, and this is the first and most necessary thing to say to all the believers.  ABU0407

The spiritual life postulates simplicity, and contemplation combined with usefulness and well-guided activity.  ABU2392

Happiness lies in knowledge, and knowledge in the fear of God, and the fear of God in detachment and aversion from worldly ornaments. And detachment brings divine love, and love seeks the recitation of verses and communes with God, and the attraction of verses refines character - that is, truthfulness in the path of God and fairness with people and mastery over self and association with the righteous and avoidance of the ignorant and respect for the great ones and kindness to the lesser ones and giving counsel to friends and forbearance with enemies and generosity to the poor and love for all people and guidance of those who have gone astray.  This is the most great happiness and the supreme gift and the imperishable bounty. Blessed are they that know. AB08401

O people of Baha! Adorn yourselves with the ornament of goodly character and your heads with the crowns of trustworthiness, chastity and purity, by command of God, Who causeth the winds to blow. Beware lest ye deprive yourselves of that which ye have been commanded in the Mother Book.  BH11615

For man, true happiness and exaltation consist in self respect, in high resolves and noble purposes, in integrity and moral quality, in immaculacy of mind. Those whose standard of worth is material benefits are regarded as low, ignorant and worthless, no matter how extensive their learning and qualifications may be.   AB00433

Today, moral character is among the hosts of God  BH08646

It behooveth him who hath held fast to My love to be endued with My morals. Thus hath the matter been ordained in the Book.   BH04733

With this class of divine Artists the world is a school and all the children must be trained and educated so that they may also rise to that standard of altruistic and economic perfection. Opportunities must be given to every soul,- so that he may adorn himself with the virtues and qualities of contentment, truth, rectitude, integrity and the love of advancement in the light of God.   ABU0833

Moral life consists in the government of one's self.   ABU3529

Religion is an attitude toward God which reflects itself in our attitude towards men.  ABU3608

and to make thee kind hearted unto all human beings so that thou mayest be a mercy unto souls, absolute goodness to all, a sign of kindness, a word of tenderness  AB09111

That which endures is the love of the Lord, service to the righteous, goodly conduct, and kindness toward all the servants of God, be they friend or stranger, heedless or aware.  AB03547

There are various grades of evil habits. There are certain souls whose moral lives are petrified and are immersed in a sea of immorality. Immorality is like leprosy. It is contagious.  ABU2178

civilization cannot be attained except through faith and certitude. Man cannot attain to justice, fairness, compassion, kindness, patience and forgiveness except through faith.  ABU2139

The morals of tribal peoples are in many ways superior to those of city dwellers, for instance in forgiveness, generosity, and tolerance. If someone has killed another's father and then takes refuge in his tent, he is safe.  ABU1365


The greater the aim of man the nobler his purpose. A man must ever be thoughtful of others and be polite and courteous toward his fellow-beings. This will win for him the good pleasure of the Lord and the satisfaction of the general public.  ABU2960

O people of God! Know ye and recognize the station of religion, trustworthiness and truthfulness. These mentioned attributes are each the foremost adorning of the human temple. Ye must preserve them in the name of God from thieves and betrayers.  BH00858


O My loved ones! We have commanded you to righteousness and piety, and forbidden you oppression and wickedness and whatsoever causeth the servants to grieve in the realm of creation. Make it your concern to aid the servants and that whereby their hearts may be gladdened. Your Lord commandeth you to that which profiteth you and forbiddeth you from that which harmeth you.  BH00602



Oh, ye people, commit not what will make you lose your honour, dignity, and the sanctity of the Cause before the worshipers. Be careful not to come near anything shunned by your minds. Fear God and follow not the unmindful. Do not be unfaithful to the property of the people. Be faithful and honest on this earth. Do not deprive the poor people, or exclude them from what was given to you from the Bounty of God.   ABU0050

All divine teachings are focused on eliminating these thoughts of special interests, improving human morals, and establishing equality and fellowship among all humanity, so that each individual would sacrifice their life for others. This is the divine foundation, this is the heavenly law, and such a firm foundation can only be established through one overwhelming universal force that affects human feelings, for every power is inadequate except the power of the Holy Spirit.  AB00158

They should be convinced that no hell or fire is worse than corrupt morals and character, and no torment or punishment is more severe than blameworthy qualities. Training should reach such a degree that cutting one's throat would be more pleasant than telling a detestable lie, and the wound of sword and spear easier to bear than anger and calumny. The fire of zeal should blaze forth and consume the harvest of passion and desire.   AB00251


In all Tablets, Scriptures, Books and Holy Writings, all the friends have been commanded to manifest religiosity, trustworthiness, truthfulness, high endeavor, justice and fairness - as all the divine friends can bear witness to what has been stated. For those souls who are truly gazing toward the Most Exalted Horizon today and have reached the supreme heights are the dawning-places of goodly attributes, the rising-points of pure deeds, and the sources of actions that are pleasing and acceptable.   BH00619

Conduct thyself with justice and act in such wise that thy deeds may reveal the sanctity of the Cause. Adorn thyself with so praiseworthy a character, that by it the fragrance of purity may be wafted over all men.  BH05810

I swear by the pearls of the sea of divine knowledge that the hosts of virtuous character are mightier than earthly hosts   BH03313

"Become pure, become watchful"   AB07370

One pure soul is a world of men.  AB09323

Faith is the centre of human virtues.   ABU3374

composure and dignity in all conditions  AB09266

wise, zealous, accomplished and patient   AB07510

The true fruit of man is therefore Love.   ABU2768

The quality of man lies in his conduct and deeds.  BH10950

no garment more befitting than upright character   BH10142

True greatness in man is his spiritual attributes.  ABU3617

The fragrance of the rose leads man to the Garden.   ABU3452

with utmost sincerity, trustworthiness and goodwill   AB07468

trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness and purity  BH10693

with the utmost sincerity in both inner and outer being  AB06489

God willing, mayest thou be adorned with divine virtues   BH09291

He is ever cheerful and smiling, full of joy and delight  AB09402

Train all people in the attributes of the Ancient Beauty  AB06256

Today pride lieth in pure deeds and spiritual qualities.   BH01584

A cheerful countenance lends consolation to the beholder.   ABU3633

A Baha'i is one in whom the human perfections are active.   ABU3501

I have come to promote divine civilization. This is a civilization that Baha'u'llah established in the East. It is a civilization that tends to the domain of character; it is a civilization that conduces to universal peace; it is a civilization that promotes the unity of the world of humanity. ABU3743

A tranquility and steadfastness was manifest in thy visage.  AB08145

"But he who possesses truthfulness possesses all the virtues"   ABU2362

the luminosity of thy face is a decisive proof of thy character  AB04308

He is loving. Steadfastness is a garment upon the human temple   AB11996

Consider man as a tree: its fruit hath been and ever shall be the knowledge of God, and its leaves and branches are goodly deeds and spiritual qualities. BH10099

Be tender, loving and beloved among all the peoples of the earth   AB05403

Our actions reveal what we are, no matter what the tongue speaks.   ABU3601

performing good deeds and developing praiseworthy character traits   BH03761

and its brilliant rays are godly characteristics and divine conduct  AB08639

strive to the extent of thy capacity to manifest spiritual qualities  BH09549

"become illumined, become heavenly, become divine, become merciful"   AB05543

May He make them steadfast in His Cause and grant them a sound heart  AB05572

Kindness is a ray of the Divine and good nature is the light of heaven  AB10609

Proof of spiritual station comes through service and bearing hardships  AB09462

These spiritual qualities are of the highest and most exalted station   AB03844

reform morals, and seek to surpass all others in character and conduct  AB00551

"Today the helpers of God are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character."  BH02237

No host hath been or is mightier than pure deeds and radiant character   BH06903

Show forth divine character and adorn the feast of the spiritual ones.   AB05885

But the greatest foundation of learning is the improvement of character.  AB02950

to exert the utmost effort and endeavour to refine characters and manners  AB10596

The essence is spirituality - all must inhale divine fragrances from you.  AB08760

concentrate your thoughts on acquiring human virtues and divine qualities   AB00889

Baha'i means a heavenly person, radiant, possessing all human perfections   AB07299

may he be adorned with the ornament of pleasing character and goodly deeds   BH04656

His loved ones must appear with praiseworthy character and goodly attributes  BH02197

that wondrous form in utmost contentment, submission, composure and dignity   AB11994

The light of faith shone in thy brow and the smile of the Kingdom in thy face.  AB09453

He was God-seeking, God-speaking, of goodly character and radiant countenance   AB05410

Verily, the happiness of the world of humanity is based on heavenly character.  AB10738

"The first is that thou shouldst manifest spiritual qualities among all people"  BH09794

Truly both nobility of lineage and excellence of character are combined in you   AB06362

Blessed is the soul which is purified, and understands its wickedness and piety  ABU1938

Beware lest ye forget courtesy, for a person is known by his courteous behavior, not by his wealth. Take pride in your knowledge and refinement, not in your ancestors and garments. BH11393

He counsels them to praiseworthy character, goodly deeds and commendable conduct   BH09972

thou mayest become an embodied spirit, a personified light, and a manifest bounty  AB09654

In the Qur'an, the Divine Book, among the characteristics of the people of unity, He has mentioned the suppression of anger, as He says: "Those who suppress their anger and pardon people, and God loves the doers of good." Although this station is great and its attainment difficult and arduous, yet for the people of Baha (may my spirit be sacrificed for them) there is another station and another rank. The ultimate aim and desire of their existence is to sacrifice all attributes for the sake of the life of the world and the revival of the peoples and tribes of the nations. When the wayfarer reaches this most exalted and supreme station, firstly no anger arises in him that he should need to suppress it, and no self remains that should need to forgive. AB06368

In truth you have taken firm steps and demonstrated steadfastness and perseverance.  AB06672

deal and associate with all humanity in the utmost love, truthfulness and friendship   AB07008

Strive thou to act in accordance with the conditions of faith and to attain thereunto.  BH10657

those assured souls are verses of unity and manifestations of the grace of detachment   AB11926

Praise be to God that it was evidence of truthfulness, uprightness and devotion to God.  AB08710

Each of them become like unto an angel and radiate heavenly deeds, thoughts and actions  AB04443

Compare your deeds with the teachings of Baha'u'llah - if they conform, they are right.  AB01683

Glorified be He Who made friendship an ornament and adorned therewith the temple of man.  BH09839

For they are, in the words of Christ, the salt of the earth. Verily salt must be salty.   AB07039

Man is like unto a tree - its fruits are praiseworthy spiritual qualities and attributes.  BH08971

First they must they clear their own house, then start to clean the houses of the people   ABU2781

This is the Day for the revelation and manifestation of goodly character, deeds and words.   BH00585

In truth, they possess angelic character and hearts infused with love for the Kind Beloved.  AB02787

Blessed is the soul that spends its precious moments in spiritual virtues and goodly deeds.   BH06977

May thy deeds grant thee the grace of holy fragrances conducive to communions of the spirit.  AB03325

With perfect gentleness, truthfulness and purity of heart must they pass these fleeting days   BH06463

pure deeds and praiseworthy character have been and ever will be its guardians and protectors   BH09835

With a pure heart and a radiant soul thou dost move and walk in the path of the Glorious Lord.  AB08779

you must continually increase in freshness and delicacy, and the leaves of Paradise derive their vitality from the water of life - and that is the cup of mystical knowledge, the wine of certitude, assurance, explanation and utterance. I hope that you will be assisted and confirmed in all these virtues which adorn human reality. AB08081

I beseech God that day by day they may increase in this firmness and steadfastness and walk this path in such wise that they may attract both the master and servant, and deal with both friend and stranger with the utmost kindness, truthfulness and friendship. They should not look at shortcomings and should not be offended by harmful people, but rather should consider enemies as friends and ill-wishers as well-wishers, and treat them accordingly. This is the attribute of the people of Baha and this is the way of the people of faithfulness. AB03212

Like a candle may you shine bright and like a moth may you burn in the flame of the love of God   AB06999

Each of the friends is as rosegarden and each is adorned with the myrtles of divine recognition.  AB03783

His world-conquering armies are heavenly characteristics, human virtues, and divine perfections.  AB04504

We beseech God to open before his face the gate of steadfastness, bounty, mercy and faithfulness.  BH02363

Trustworthiness is the most brilliant jewel in the diadem which crowns man's heavenly attributes.  ABU3622

I wish for you to manifest radiant attributes under all conditions and to raise the Word of God.   ABU1378

must manifest such qualities and character that the fragrance of holiness may be inhaled therefrom  BH06477

They aid God at all times through their works and deeds and through all that proceedeth from them   BH01853

Be patient and endure the cruelty of the wicked. Be not sorrowful, be not grieved, be not downcast  AB09696

Adorn yourselves with that which you have been commanded by God, the Compassionate, the Bountiful.   BH06837

None shall attain unto this most great bounty save through praiseworthy character and goodly deeds   BH06554

We beseech God not to deprive His servants of the adornment of spiritual virtues and goodly deeds.   BH01630

We have ordained victory through the hosts of wisdom and utterance, and through deeds and character  BH10110

Through God's loving-kindness, all the friends must manifest goodly deeds and spiritual qualities.   BH09448

self-sacrifice in the love of Baha'u'llah, and attainment to attraction, love, knowledge and wisdom  AB11264

mention your sincerity of intention, purity of nature, abundance of zeal, and excellence of service  AB03405

God has created you as human beings so that you may daily acquire better morals and human virtues.   ABU2244

Man must be a mine of piety and sympathy. He must associate with all mankind with joy and fragrance.  ABU3473

He hath ordained that victory lieth in the manifestation of His goodly character amongst all people.   BH02835

Praise be to God, he is from the mine of the love of God and from the quarry of the knowledge of God.  AB08810

Children must first be trained in divine virtues and encouraged and urged to improve their character.  ABU2705

if today a soul becomes successful in trustworthiness and manifests praiseworthy qualities and virtues  BH07536

The Supreme Pen hath at all times counseled His loved ones to praiseworthy character and goodly deeds   BH06914

It behooveth every soul who hath believed in God to hold fast unto what is virtuous in all conditions.   BH06662

That is, you must adorn that country with every flower of spiritual characteristics and human virtues.   AB04806

You must conduct yourself in a manner befitting a Baha'i and worthy of holy souls in this radiant age.   AB11765

This is the Day for pure deeds, goodly character and praiseworthy attributes - it has been and still is.  BH06068

Through virtuous character your station is elevated and your glory becomes manifest throughout the lands.  BH09100

Praises qualities of purity, radiance, freedom from worldliness, and refusal to participate in oppression  AB10526

Be eloquent in speech and surpassing in skill. Be radiant through the bounty of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB09269

Spiritual virtues and divine qualities and luminous deeds and conscientious attributes are the foundation  AB01349

You must be adorned with divine morals. The basis of eternal happiness is spirituality and divine virtue.  ABU2148

When the light of the love of God shines upon a face, the countenance attains the utmost grace and beauty.  AB06721

Adorn thyself with My attributes, then manifest thyself amongst the people with My character and qualities.  BH05105

He who hath purified his soul and whose deeds are goodly--from him wafteth the fragrance of My good-pleasure   BH02836

It is incumbent upon all to manifest themselves with praiseworthy character, goodly deeds and pure actions.   BH09277

Walk in his path so that in the spiritual, heavenly world you may raise high the banner of the King of Kings  AB12513

The ladder of ascension hath ever been and shall continue to be goodly counsel and pure and sanctified deeds.  BH11717

when they become gardens of divine qualities and become characterized by the acquisition of infinite bounties  AB11684

Sincerity of intention, goodness of character, faith and certitude attract the confirmations of the Lord God.  AB03669

be patient and forbearing as much as you can, and do not become distressed by anyone based on mere conjecture.  AB02892

As much as you can, become adorned with these glorious virtues and embellished with these spiritual qualities.   AB07517

Blessed is the soul that hath become lowly before God's Cause and content and active in carrying out His decree.  BH05574

Blessed is the soul who is today adorned with the ornaments of trustworthiness, truthfulness and steadfastness.   BH02748

Therefore always strive to be a cause of improving character and acquiring and promoting spiritual perfections.   ABU1249

"It bore evidence of a sensitive and refined heart, and of turning to God, reliance, initiative and supplication"  AB06064

Make him ever enkindled with the heat of the fire of love among Thy creatures and firm and steadfast in Thy Cause.  AB01291

"My God! I disavow that worship which leadeth me to pride, and I desire that sin which bringeth me to contrition."   BH03604

By the righteousness of God! The sword of a virtuous character and upright conduct is sharper than blades of steel.  BH00005

advance daily in all degrees of morals, virtues, and spiritual perfections until they attain to maturity and growth  AB03816

The loftiness of man lies in his comprehension of universal meanings, and power lies in bearing the Most Great Trust  AB08978

turn to the Kingdom of God with pure hearts, sanctified souls, cheerful sprits, brightened eyes and illumined faces.  AB03255

that heavenly food consists of deeds that conform to the divine teachings. The first food is the love of God. The second food is attraction to the breaths of the Holy Spirit. The third food is unity and harmony among all the divine friends. The fourth food is charitable deeds and sincere intentions. The fifth food is truthfulness and trustworthiness and kindness and purity of intention and service to all humanity. AB03723

The station of man is and shall ever be mercy, love, compassion and forbearance towards all the peoples of the world.  BH00407

The exaltation of the Cause hath been and shall be through the manifestation of spiritual qualities and goodly deeds.  BH07588

These are My servants who have sought shelter beneath the canopy of My loving-kindness and the pavilions of My mercy   BH03658

Divine qualities are unlimited. For this reason you must not be satisfied with one quality but must try to gain all.   ABU1802

The heaven of human station hath been and shall ever be illumined by two luminaries: trustworthiness and steadfastness  BH09191

the fruit, effect, leaves, flowers and blossoms of these trees are the human perfections, virtues and characteristics   AB05493



that the world of morals may be illumined, and the virtues of the human world may become the ornament of the gathering   AB02189



Therefore, while physical characteristics will perish, divine qualities will endure. Upon you be the divine attributes.   AB11515


I speak to them of the trees of the world of existence, of the fruits of human virtues and of heavenly morals and traits  ABU2596

O party of God! Hold fast to pure morals and praiseworthy deeds, for these two attract the hearts and minds of the world.  BH11604

Be ye the manifestations of My morals amongst My servants and the dawning-places of My sanctification amidst My creation   BH04727

The seven qualifications: Knowledge, Faith, Steadfastness, Truthfulness, Faithfulness, Fidelity, Evanescence and humility  AB10703


O self-sacrificing servants of the Most Glorious! Engage in spreading divine morals and mysteries with the utmost wisdom   AB05038


Human glory and nobility lie in purity, truthfulness, goodwill, chastity and steadfastness - not in ornaments and wealth   AB01301

A truthful person must flee from all blameworthy characteristics and attitudes which are opposed to truth and integrity.   AB07474


We have counseled and continue to counsel all to be characterized by religiosity, trustworthiness, chastity and fidelity.   BH09633

Thou art a manifestation of guidance, a recipient of bounty, engaged in service, and immersed in the ocean of spirituality  AB10339


I beg for you from the Bestowal of His Highness the Exalted Lord, enlightened hearts, pure spirits and radiant consciences  AB03583


may you combine both these qualities and virtues, for human excellence and virtue lie in joining these two gifts together   AB06886

one deed performed purely for the sake of God is a treasure preserved with God in His Name and protected by His protection   BH09135


Truly I say, corruption and conflict and whatsoever the mind abhorreth have never been and are not worthy of man's station.  BH02699



Let all people see that you have the Light, that they may recognize something in you which they themselves do not possess.   ABU1278
































Be thou faithful, good-natured, cheerful and truthful, that thou mayest find a dwelling and abode in the path of the Beloved.  AB07664

Let such conduct, deeds and words be manifested from you that they become the cause of the awakening of the world of humanity  AB05584

Man's power and courage lie in overcoming self and passion, not in bloodthirstiness and savagery and brutality and violation   AB04502

We counsel all to uprightness, religiosity and that whereby the Cause of God, the Lord of the seen and unseen, may be exalted.  BH03133

How excellent is the state of those souls from whom the denizens of the Concourse on High inhale the fragrance of divine love.  BH05018

Exert thy utmost effort that thou mayest be adorned with such deeds and character as will cause the elevation of God's Cause.   BH08100

May you raise high the song of sanctification and cause the melodies of unity to reach the ears of the people of East and West  AB04635

The praiseworthy conduct that is manifested by the loved ones of God serveth as the educator, teacher and guide of all people.   BH08004

Be thou in such wise that neither the conditions of the people sadden thee, nor the veils of any heedless doubter prevent thee.  BH07491

Say: O friends! Fix your gaze upon God and adorn yourselves with spiritual qualities. Whatever befalleth you, refer it to God.   BH04056

"We beseech God, exalted be His glory, to adorn all with the ornament of truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness and fidelity"  BH01661

In truth, service to the Cause consisteth in such deeds and character as cause the spread of the traces of the friends of God.   BH01162

Give thanks to God that you have been confirmed in this virtue, and its fruit is glory in both worlds and joy of heart and soul  AB10000

All trials and afflictions have been borne so that all people might be adorned with spiritual qualities and heavenly attributes.   BH01642

Humility, kindness, resignation, and all these spiritual attributes emanating from great physical strength are acceptable to God.  ABU1585

By my life, the sword of good character and kindness is sharper than a sword of iron. Those men are truly wise who are decorated with the ornaments of learning and character; these are the head of the body of mankind. BH09726

The ornament of man hath ever been trustworthiness and godliness, and these pertain especially to such as are related to the Truth.  BH05928

This Wronged One counsels the friends and enjoins upon them goodly deeds and praiseworthy character which attract hearts and minds.   BH10457

We have adorned the heaven of souls with the sun of trustworthiness and the moon of truthfulness and the stars of virtuous character  BH08080

Aid your Creator through pure deeds and goodly conduct, that your remembrance and traces may endure in the earth among all peoples.   BH07237

Be sweet as sugar and like honey - that is to say, manifest the sweetness of the love of God and the delight of the knowledge of God  AB10928

We convey Our greetings to the friends in that land and counsel them to supreme steadfastness, goodly deeds and spiritual qualities.   BH05983

You, praise be to God, are forbearing and gentle, refined and generous. You do not become sorrowful, you do not become grief-stricken  AB05594

The excellence of man lies in divine perfections and knowledge of Him, and in the spiritual nature's triumph over the animal nature.   ABU1996

You are eloquent, articulate, fluent and knowing. You are far from silence and quietude, and restless beyond patience and stillness.   AB12098

must be like an overflowing cup of exhilarating wine among the people, becoming a balm for every wound and a remedy for every ailment   AB07047

become manifest and apparent in the gathering of the world through the character, morals, manners, conduct and speech of His servants   AB05560


Say: Today, triumph and service have been and are through goodly character and pure deeds. By these hosts must assistance be rendered.   BH03050

Having "attraction and rapture, purity and detachment, freedom from defilement, and sanctification and holiness" as spiritual qualities  AB08726

Praise be to God, the faces are radiant, the hearts are gardens of divine love, and the souls are gladdened by the divine glad-tidings.  AB03515

compassionate love and a burning ardour for truth strengthen the life of one's own soul and cure it of that which is strange and ailing  ABU3439

We counsel thee and those who have believed to manifest such virtues as shall diffuse the fragrance of God's loving-kindness and bounty.  BH08018

The essence of holiness is the characteristic of righteousness, for this is the highest aspiration of such as seek the threshold of God.  AB09278

must be gentle and forbearing, patient and tolerant, and deal with all souls - whether righteous or wicked - with kindness and courtesy   AB06169

Such seeds, as ordained by the one true God, are none other than goodly attributes and goodly deeds, goodly character and goodly words.   AB05368

The hosts of God in this most mighty Revelation have ever been virtuous conduct, and it is incumbent upon every soul to hold fast unto it   BH04059

They who claim to love Me must needs adorn their heads with the crowns of detachment and their temples with the raiment of righteousness.   BH04913

Be endowed with the characteristics of the All-Merciful and the disposition of the One True God. Comport yourselves as the People of God.   AB06291

The virtues, excellences, and noble characteristics of that one who ascended unto God must needs be reflected in thee and become manifest.  AB11341

"I testify that thy heart was the dawning-place of the love of God and thy tongue the source of His remembrance and thy breast His vista."   BH02188

Today, goodly deeds and spiritual virtuous character are beloved in the presence of the Wronged One. God willing, may you attain unto them.  BH06807

Therefore, arise to fulfill the Covenant and Testament, and strive to spread the virtues and qualities that are the gift of the human world.  AB11823

Exalted is the station of man, if he be adorned with the true attributes of humanity; otherwise he is counted as the basest of all creatures.  BH02503

All must adorn themselves with divine virtues and act upon that which will cause the exaltation of God's Cause and the glorification of souls.  BH00872

in this divine Dispensation, rendering assistance to God consists in manifesting divine qualities and explaining heavenly wisdom and mysteries. Praise be to God, there is no need for sword or spear, for the piercing blade or the strength of men's arms. It is spirit and fragrance, security and protection, peace and reconciliation, truthfulness and certitude, detachment and spiritual awareness.  AB05090

In all affairs be thou patient, dignified, thankful, calm, kind, tender, tolerant, self-restrained; for this is the quality of the near ones.   AB03581


We counsel you and the friends to patience and forbearance, and to such deeds and character as will cause the exaltation of the station of man   BH05025

We counsel thee and those who have believed to manifest calm, dignity and perseverance, which We have enjoined upon all in My perspicuous Book.   BH06965

you possess a radiant countenance, a luminous brow, a expansive nature, a capacious breast, and a heart illumined with the lights of recognition  AB12310

heavenly souls shall find their way to the divine pavilion and shine forth from the horizon of inner meanings and realities with infinite lights  AB02713


To live the Life you must be the very kindest woman, you must be the most pure, you must be absolutely truthful, and live a perfectly moral life.  AB04630

In all ages, the helper of truth has been goodly deeds and spiritual qualities. Blessed is he who holds fast unto them, and woe unto the heedless.  BH04614

Let your acts be a guide unto all mankind, that from your behaviour and conduct they may be enabled to recognize the signs and commandments of God.  BHU0058


It is hoped through divine protection and shelter that wherever thou art, thou wilt become renowned throughout those regions for purity and holiness  AB10613


all have pure and radiant hearts from the bounties of heaven, and their collars are rent with divine love. They are detached from the world of dust   AB06417

"A spiritual human being - a Baha'i in the true sense - is a being who loves God and his fellow man, a man of generosity, of comfort and of cheer."   ABU0529

Goodly character, praiseworthy deeds, and human attributes have been and shall ever be the cause of exalting the Word of God and promoting His Cause.  BH03264

The beautiful perfume of your noble lives will permeate everywhere. The light of truth kindled in your hearts will shine out to the distant horizon!   ABU0619

"we servants must be occupied with that which causes the appearance of the stations of love, wisdom, faithfulness and human qualities and conditions"   BH02140

These spiritual souls are endowed with divine perfections. Having renounced the world and all that is therein, they have entered the heavenly Kingdom.  AB12468

I desire of God that thou wilt be heavenly, angelic and spiritual; and as a torch, become illumined with the love of God in the kingdom of existence.   AB05261



essential spiritual principles which are the basis for human prosperity, praiseworthy morals and the acquisition of the virtues and perfections of man  ABU3016


Convey unto all the divine counsels which thou didst hear from the tongue of Grandeur, that all may be adorned with spiritual qualities and holy deeds.  BH02194


associate with the people with sanctity, purity, virtue and holiness, so that every one who is near may inhale the fragrance of the delectable Paradise  AB09110

I hope that through refinement of character, tenderness of heart, supreme spirituality and the power of attraction thou wilt become a diamond merchant   AB04713

The brilliance and radiance of these precious jewels consist in sincerity, detachment, enkindlement, attraction, spirituality and divine inspirations.   AB05713


The fruits of the tree of being have been and are countless, among them trustworthiness, religiousness, kindliness, mercy, bounty, generosity and grace.  BH09151




We counsel thee and those who have believed to manifest spiritual qualities and goodly, virtuous deeds, that there may appear from you what beseemeth you  BH05482

O people! Adorn yourselves with My qualities and array your temples in the garments of knowledge and refinement, and be ye witnesses among His servants.   BH02154

In all matters be patient, dignified, thankful, calm, kind, compassionate, humble and forbearing, for this is the character of those who are near to God   AB05949

They must live and conduct themselves in such manner that in sanctity, prayerfulness and devotion they may become distinguished from the rest of mankind.  AB11299

The Light here spoken of means the Light of His Perfections - justice, mercy, goodness, love, holiness, truth, unworldliness, righteousness, purity, etc.  ABU0044




We mention the friends and counsel them to justice, fairness, religious devotion, trustworthiness and the fear of God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.  BH11875

Be thou eloquent in the remembrance of thy Lord, steadfast in the service of His Cause, turning toward His horizon, and holding fast to His extended cord.  BH11661



that all may be adorned with the ornament of trustworthiness, religiosity, truthfulness, purity, goodly deeds and whatsoever God hath revealed in the Book   BH02089

Whosoever acteth according to and is adorned with goodly deeds, pure words and spiritual qualities - such a one possesseth inner beauty in the sight of God  BH03182


In this court we must be humble and meek, noble and progressive, wide-awake and thoughtful, true and sincere, noble and good, straightforward and zealous.   ABU1029

If one's character is divine, merciful, and spiritual, any condition is good. If one's character is satanic, there is torment and punishment in any state.   ABU0831


One must become characterized by such attributes and conduct oneself according to such qualities as would constitute clear signs of the luminosity of faith   AB08907

This is the time to acquire virtues from which the sweet fragrances of holiness may be inhaled and the pure perfume of the most great sanctity may be sensed  AB05337


Today, in the Most Holy Court, mention of God, service to the Cause, and virtues and qualities that conduce to the exaltation of God's Cause take precedence.  BH03801

Fix thy gaze upon this word which is as light for dark days and as spirit for cast-out bodies: The hosts of God are praiseworthy character and goodly deeds.   BH03057

Strive to manifest yourself among people with goodly character and praiseworthy deeds, that perhaps the breaths of holiness and detachment may waft from you   BH03082

If the heart be filled with light, that man is nigh unto the threshold of his Lord; but if not, that man is careless of his Lord, be he white or be he black.  AB08135


O My friends and loved ones! The Most Exalted Pen counsels you to righteousness and piety, trustworthiness and religious devotion, truthfulness and sincerity.  BH02853

The divine ideals are humility, submissiveness, annihilation of self, perfect evanescence, charity and loving kindness. You must die to self and live in God.   ABU1347

For that friend was perfect, wise and compassionate to the weak, possessing conduct, behavior and speech that surely brought him near to the Lord's threshold.  AB01287

He was vigilant in preserving and protecting at all times, and was with his master in utmost truthfulness and sincerity, for therein lies divine good-pleasure.  BH08903

The Wronged One sends greetings to you and counsels you to spiritual virtues and goodly deeds. Through virtuous character the station of man becomes manifest.   BH04945

He called people to the Kingdom of Your mercy morning and evening with good character, pure nature, illumined heart and breast expanded by Your greatest verses  AB00847

This vicegerency means adorning oneself with the attributes of the Most Merciful and acquiring the characteristics of the Lord, the Beloved of all possibility.  AB09765

He has created servants who are the manifestations of love and devotion, the dawning-places of truth and sincerity, and the daysprings of affection and fidelity  AB02136

Through deeds and character is revealed the station of men. Blessed is he who hath done what he hath been commanded in the Book of God, the Mighty, the Praised.   BH01199

The hosts that can render this Cause victorious have ever been and are goodly character and virtuous deeds. Strive ye that ye may be enabled to achieve victory.   BH00461

Adorn yourselves, O people, with the virtues of God, and commit not that which would cause the dignity of His Manifestation to be diminished among His creatures.  BH10130

Be set aglow with the fire of the love of God, so that the hearts of the people will become enlightened by the light of thy love. Be humble and submissive to God  AB05451

In the days of the Manifestation, pure and holy deeds and spiritual, pleasing character are beloved. Deeds are accounted before God as fruits of the Blessed Tree.  BH01954

You must ever shine like a star and like the luminous moon cast your light upon the ethereal realm. Such are the luminous bodies - meaning the enlightened person.  AB10497

Praise be to God, it bore witness to the spirituality and luminosity of the friends of God. It is hoped that this delicacy and loftiness will increase day by day.  AB08001

You have been and will surely continue to be assisted, for truly your heart is very pure and free from all attachments. You have no aim except divine good-pleasure and no desire except effacement and nothingness. These are the qualities and attributes that lead to the attainment of life, and this is the way and conduct that magnetizes the confirmations of the King of Kings. AB01114

Therefore, in gratitude for these bestowals, they must arise with such chastity, purity, knowledge, love, sanctity and detachment that all creation will be amazed.   AB07196

increasing day by day in sincerity and pure-heartedness, faith and certitude, trustworthiness and piety, steadfastness and truthfulness, humility and submissiveness  AB02923

Among the greatest divine gifts bestowed upon human reality are brilliant qualities and radiant manifestations which are conclusive signs of the all-embracing truth.  AB05696

they must conduct themselves with such purity, detachment and wisdom as to become a model for other organizations and a cause of awareness and learning for all people  AB07009

"O people of Baha! Aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, through deeds and character. Whoso hath attained unto this hath truly attained unto victory in this mighty Cause."   BH05936

The Persian friends are my companions and intimates, for they walk the path of truth, seek friendship, speak words of peace and reconciliation, and worship the Truth.   AB04911

We counsel thee and them that have believed to observe trustworthiness, religious devotion, chastity, and that whereby God's Cause may be promoted amongst His servants.  BH00700

Suppressing anger is among the characteristics of the righteous and the qualities of the noble ones. As far as you can, be patient and endure the cruelty of the wicked.  AB09696

For the physician, the first qualifications are: Good intentions, trustworthiness, tenderness, sympathy for the sick, truthfulness, integrity, and the fear of the Lord.  AB08461

They are pure souls and holy beings of the human world who serve the unity of humankind and are kind to all peoples, making no distinctions between them and loving all   AB01800

Exercise discernment in thine affairs; defame no one; follow not thy passions; and place thy trust in God, thy Lord. Walk then upon the earth with a dignity born of God   BH03983

Be kind and gentle with all the people of the world and serve and assist everyone with the utmost love. This is the essence of the characteristics of the people of Baha.  AB08881

Rest thou assured that thou wilt become assisted and confirmed! Consequently arise with the greatest confidence of the heart and summon the people to the Kingdom of God   AB02628

I hope that like this mirror you will make hearts pure and clean and sanctified so that they may reflect the lights of the perfections and bounties of the Sun of Truth.   ABU2551

"If we become characterized by these divine attributes, soon the ultimate goal, which is unity and oneness and kindness and fellowship among humanity, will be achieved."  ABU2971

Be thou of such manner that the radiance of the Beloved may shine from thy face and the fragrances of thy Lord's Cause, the Mighty, the Wondrous, may waft from thy deeds.  BH04147

Today bravery and manliness, courage and valor and wisdom are trustworthiness. Trustworthiness is religiosity. Religiosity is truthfulness. Truthfulness is steadfastness.  AB10877

Be thou of those who foster peace. Offer thy friendship, be worthy of trust. Be thou a balm to every sore, be thou a medicine for every ill. Bind thou the souls together.  AB05247

When a person's life is purely moral, when his daily actions are propelled by ethical forces he will influence tremendously the lives of those who come in touch with him.  ABU3333

Truly these souls are self-sacrificing and through divine love they make every evening like bright day, and with tear-filled eyes they engage in glorification and praise.   AB11652

Therefore, diffuse sweet fragrances, show forth a goodly character, and let thy radiant face shine forth, that thou mayest adorn the world and be as a soul to the universe.  AB09197

those whose hearts hear the mention of God and in whose movements and stillness is seen the tranquility and dignity of God, and from whose faces shineth the freshness of God   BH01617

That which brings true joy is the outpourings of heavenly grace, it is human virtues and perfections, it is knowledge and wisdom, it is spiritual qualities and eternal life.   AB00635

Today all must manifest spiritual qualities among mankind, that all people may inhale the sweet fragrances of sanctity and detachment from those who are related to the Truth.   BH01171

Man should fix his gaze upon that which is the source of his glory, elevation and loftiness, and this cannot be attained except through goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.  BH05703

Therefore, strive until you acquire a celestial light, a divine radiance, and a merciful effulgence, so that you may illumine all those regions with the light of the teachings.  AB09007

manifest signs and brilliant, evident tokens in their love of God, knowledge of God, supreme sanctification, service to the loved ones of God, and observance of the law of God   AB07411

This word is like unto a sapling planted by the hand of power. It must be watered with the water of love and steadfastness and preserved in the name of God from poisonous winds.  BH07903

He had a radiant countenance, eloquent speech, profound meanings, quick understanding, a gentle heart, and powerful proofs. He was mighty in exalting Thy Word among the people.   AB00849

The believing women are manifestations of inner beauty and outer perfection, of purity of heart and pure love, of the knowledge of God and the gifts of the Most Glorious Beauty.  AB08948

The promoter of truth is divine and heavenly character traits, acting in accordance with God's merciful teachings, and spreading divine counsels and admonitions among the people  AB07719

I swear by the Sun of the horizon of the Cause that the triumph achieved through goodly deeds and praiseworthy characteristics is mightier than that won by artillery and armies.   BH05795

Praise be to God that until now, the sweet fragrance of thy steadfastness and firmness hath been diffused abroad, and the taste and flavor of thy constancy and joy made manifest.  AB08673

These souls are quickened through the Breath of the Blessed Perfection. For they embody in their daily acts the qualities of trustworthiness, fidelity, integrity, and rectitude.   ABU1084

God hath adorned the Tree of Man with branches and twigs and leaves. Know ye this and be not of the heedless. These are indeed the virtues which We have detailed in My mighty Book   BH08917

But the hosts that are specially reserved unto the Ancient Being, exalted be His utterance and His remembrance, have ever been and still are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.  BH08170

The adornment of man hath not been and is not through the riches of the world, but rather through praiseworthy character, goodly deeds, loftiness of purpose and nobility of nature.   BH00575

demonstrate the utmost truthfulness, honesty, trustworthiness, purity and nobility, be content with his salary however small it may be, and be free and sanctified from all defilement  AB01562

Were souls who circle round to reflect upon this supreme bounty and mighty gift, they would, until their last breath without cessation, utter "Thine be the praise, O Lord of Majesty!"   BH02899



Praised for believing in God, being attracted by divine fragrances, chanting verses, verifying divine words, showing humility, accepting proof, following commands with steadfast heart   AB01988

It behooveth those who have turned to God to manifest that which will diffuse the fragrance of holiness among the servants. Blessed is he who is adorned with the attributes of his Lord   BH09595

"That is to say, consider (people's) morals and character, then consider the person himself and be attentive (to detect) one's manners and conduct and consider his faith and assurance."  AB05606

Today the faithful must be occupied with the standard of godliness, the banner of detachment, and the hosts of wisdom and utterance in aid of the Cause of the Desired One of the worlds.   BH01270


Today the greatest form of divine piety is firmness in the Covenant, and pure deeds means the conduct, actions and words of true Baha'is that conform to divine counsels and exhortations.   AB01473

Praise be to God, you have attained to the fruits of life in the human world, which are love and affection for the Kind Beloved, truthfulness and uprightness, and friendship with all people.  AB02502

The real, true Baha'is are the seeing, the perceptive, the knowing; their most noble task is that they make good use of the grace of understanding and refine the conscience of men everywhere  ABU3332

that they may shine like unto brilliant stars in this darksome world, teach all the peoples of the world the mores of love, and show everyone kindliness and friendship, sympathy and courtesy  AB02575

Pure intention, clear purpose, and manifest deeds have caused the fragrance of detachment, love, affection, trustworthiness and truthfulness to waft through the cities of justice and equity.   BH01003

The rays of the Sun of Truth are guidance, steadfastness is a gift, trustworthiness is salvation, and goodly conduct is truthfulness. Peace and reconciliation are freedom, and purity is life.  AB09975

The fruits of the tree of human life are the Love of God, magnetic, spiritual susceptibilities, heavenly illumination, the knowledge of God, praiseworthy attributes, good morals and conducts.  ABU2179

We beseech God to aid all to adorn themselves, through the traces of the Most Exalted Pen, with dignity and composure and patience and forbearance and righteousness and all that beseemeth man.   BH03283

love and faithfulness and affection and sincerity and purity and devotion and wisdom and restraint may unveil themselves in human realities and appear and be manifest in the most beautiful form  AB00669

We have adorned the tree of man with the fruits of steadfastness, trustworthiness, truthfulness and faithfulness. Blessed is the soul that hath been adorned with that which was ordained for it.   BH08704

become the essence of sanctity and the reality of detachment, enter the world of abstraction, and be moved to deeds and actions that will awaken others and draw them near to the Threshold of God  AB10600

Adorn your tongues with truthfulness, and your hands with generosity, and your bodies with dignity, and your souls with courtesy, and your hearts with My love and then with My exalted remembrance   BH11527

The excellence of lions lies in their ferocity, sharp claws and fearlessness. But the lions of the jungle of divine knowledge are distinguished by their freedom, generosity, servitude and oneness.  AB09155

that ye are luminous and joyous and beauteous, that on this triumphant day ye are speaking and hearing and seeing, that ye have adorned your hearts and souls with the radiance of the celestial Sun  AB09354

We counsel you to be compassionate, merciful, forbearing, trustworthy and truthful, that perchance the darkened world may be illumined through the lights of praiseworthy character and goodly deeds.  BH00219

Arise, arise, for the glorious Luminary has arisen and has healing in its royal wings! Be ye as balls of fire! Be ye as torches of guidance! Increase your love daily! Add to your affection hourly!   ABU0928

to appear among the people with truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness, religiosity and chastity. Each of these qualities is like a standard, as every fair-minded and informed person will testify   BH02580

Praise be to God that the Ancient Beauty has servants who manifest a noble character - they are detached and attracted, joyous and suppliant, utterly effaced from all else and steadfast in servitude  AB01416

But the loved ones must not lose hope nor become saddened by the baseness of any unfortunate one. With perfect truthfulness, faithfulness, virtue, chastity and piety they must carry out their duties.  AB00757

We have made trustworthiness a crown for the heads of Our servants and godliness a robe for the temples of Our loved ones. Blessed is he who hath taken God's counsel, and woe unto them that turn away.  BH00264


The kindred who circumambulate the Holy Shrine are, with perfect servitude, purity of intent, evanescence, self-effacement, trustworthiness and faithfulness, abiding beneath the shadow of the Covenant.  AB07995


Through the warmth of their love and the delicacy of their spirit and the sign of their tranquility and steadfastness in God's Cause have grown from the soil of hearts the plants of knowledge and wisdom   BH02452

The luminosity of the world of existence comes from acquiring the manifestations of the mystery of being, and that is spiritual qualities and divine conduct and behavior and heavenly manners and speech.   AB03522


That which today causeth the exaltation of His Cause and manifesteth the sanctification and glorification of God amongst His creatures hath been and shall ever be praiseworthy character and goodly deeds.   BH06454


We counsel you to sanctity and detachment and that whereby the Cause of God is exalted throughout all lands. Be ye lamps of guidance among mankind and daysprings of goodness unto all who dwell in creation.  BH05181

The hosts of God today amongst the people have ever been goodly deeds and pleasing character. Blessed is he who holds fast unto these--verily he is of the people of Baha in the Crimson, Hidden, Treasured Book.  BH11745


every soul is known by (his) conduct, manners, words and deeds. Therefore, we must strive with life and heart that, day by day, our deeds may be better, our conduct more beautiful and our forbearance greater.  AB04430


Nevertheless, contentment with the divine decree, joyfulness during tribulation, and fortitude whilst bearing the supreme affliction are among the necessary attributes and characteristics of the people of Baha.  AB02274

Today those who have appeared in the name of Truth and are gazing toward His horizon must be adorned with spiritual qualities, so that the people of the world may receive their portion of this most great bounty.   BH03787

"I hope that thou mayest become an incarnation of love and an embodiment of spirit and personification of kindness and that thou mayest progress day by day in the spiritual attributes through the Beauty of ABHA."  AB01722

We must recite the Persian and Arabic Hidden Words day and night, and implore and supplicate that we may act according to these divine counsels. These sacred words were revealed for action, not just for hearing.   AB02214

They are characterized by truthfulness and sincerity in their nature and conduct...they are ancient friends, of good character and fine disposition, deserving of confirmation and prepared to walk the straight path   AB05182

We have sent down the Book and commanded all therein to steadfastness, trustworthiness, and truthfulness, and to every quality through which the station of man might be made manifest among the peoples of the world.   BH06961

Be thou like the grace of God and become the cause of tranquility in the world. Be thou loving, good natured and fragrant in thy fellowship. Be radiant, cheerful and full of sympathy towards the peoples of the earth  AB10391

A jewel must be rich in essence, for the purity and delicacy of all things depend upon their essence. If thou art a pearl in the divine ocean's shell, manifest thy essence and show forth thy radiance and brilliance.  AB09461


Today, the denizens of the highest paradise are those souls who have sanctified their hearts from the doubts and vain imaginings of the world's peoples and have illumined their breasts with the light of recognition.   BH05580

No garment hath been or is more excellent for the temple of man than goodly character, and no crown better than the fear of God. This is the first ornament, whose radiance illumineth and brighteneth the human world.   BH02991

You are radiant, pleasing, beautiful and majestic, for the light of the love of God shines from your brow like a manifest light. This is true beauty and grace, "In their faces shalt thou see the brightness of bliss."  AB08773

Consort with the people at all times with divine characteristics, with heavenly dispositions and noble susceptibilities, with a fire reminiscent of his holiness Quddus and a fire recalling the Burning Bush on Sinai.   AB00744

The fruits of the tree of man have ever been and are goodly deeds and a praiseworthy character. Withhold not these fruits from the heedless. If they be accepted, your end is attained, and the purpose of life achieved.  BH00005

However, when we speak of man, we do not mean every man! No! it is the man who is imbued with the outward and inward virtues, the praiseworthy attributes of the human world, the Divine Bestowal and the Divine Guidance.  ABU0581


We counsel all the loved ones in that land to manifest spiritual qualities and praiseworthy deeds that are pleasing to God, in such wise that all people may inhale from those souls the fragrance of sanctity and detachment.  BH02258

I beseech God that they may become the light of hearts and bestow self-sacrifice upon souls, that they may become like laughing hundred-petaled roses in the heavenly garden and flowing cypresses by the stream of knowledge.  AB09355


That believing soul is indeed a cherished handmaiden of God, attracted to the divine fragrances. I beseech God that day by day ye may advance in longing, rapture, attraction, wonderment, enthusiasm and spiritual magnetism.  AB06141

Praise be to God! The station is desirable and the companion sought after, for truly rare indeed has it been and continues to be. In truth, a soul adorned with human attributes is seen as rare as red sulphur, nay rarer still.  BH01300

Follow the path of the righteous ones, that thou mayest be nurtured beneath the shade of the Lord. Be thou as an angel, sweetened with the honey of love and faithfulness. Let thy qualities be those of wisdom and understanding.  AB09399

The ideal happiness of man, if he be spiritually confirmed, consists in the acquisition of knowledge, in the love of God, in the knowledge of God, in the attractions of the conscience, and in service to the world of humanity.   ABU1020

Man must characterize himself with the characteristics of the Kingdom. Man must invest himself with merciful attributes. Man must become the educative origin of divine perfections. Man must become the embodiment of good works.  ABU2553

Goodly deeds and praiseworthy character are God's ladder among His creation; through these every soul ascends to the ultimate goal and the highest summit. Blessed is he who attains unto them, and woe unto him who neglects them.  BH00594

Say: O people! Purify your hearts from rancor and hatred, and sanctify your souls from transgression and iniquity, then adorn your bodies with the robe of faithfulness and your tongues with truthfulness in the land of creation   BH09243

Today is the day of virtuous conduct and deeds. We counsel all to fear God, for the friends of God have ever championed His Cause through godliness. This banner and standard take precedence over all other banners and standards.  BH01345



O Javad! Strive that all souls may, through divine grace, be adorned with heavenly characteristics, for verily every virtuous quality is in truth a messenger, herald and summoner from God, calling mankind to the highest horizon.  BH06086


And in the world of humanity nothing has had as much influence and effect as morals, conduct and wisdom, for divine power supports it, eternal glory lies within it, and the world of existence is thirsty for this divine Salsabil.  AB04166

In truth I say, that which is acceptable today and beloved in the sight of the Best Beloved is humility and submissiveness, praiseworthy character and goodly attributes, and steadfastness in the Cause of the Lord of all creation.  BH07230

Spiritual virtues and goodly deeds are as wings for the human temple and as hosts for the triumph of the Divine Cause. A single pure word, free from the dust of vain imaginings, delivered and granted salvation to an entire city.   BH01169

In this Most Great Revelation, manliness and valor are shown through the manifestation of the signs of the love of God and the shining forth of the lights of the knowledge of God, not through physical form, body, temple and name.  AB10360

When beauty, glory and perfection are established in one plane and station - that is, when these three attributes are gathered in one soul - then that soul becomes worthy of firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant and Testament.   AB05156

Be a sign of piety, a light of guidance, and a banner of faithfulness. Be awakened in spirit, alert in heart, detached in mind, pure in countenance, with eyes serene and ears attentive, with tongue speaking in remembrance of thy Lord  AB11936

It is binding and incumbent upon every soul to adorn himself with such virtues and deeds as would cause people to turn towards and draw nigh unto the Source, and through which all may inhale from him the sweet fragrance of sincerity.   BH08178

The success and pleasure of this physical life lies in uprightness! What a difference exists between those souls who live in accord with the good-pleasure of the Lord and those who are guided by their own thoughts and self-interests!   ABU1040


Be quick in doing good deeds; be assiduous toward God; be a veiler of people's faults; be an avoider of lust. Be a runner after truth, a cloud of bounty to the servants of God; be kindly to thy debtors; be a forgiver to the transgressors  BH11202



I hope that you will be raised up with such virtues and qualities, and demonstrate such conduct and behavior, that you will become the cause of the progress of hearts, the sanctification of souls, and the eternal glory of the human world   AB04295



O friends! Arise among the assemblage of humanity with the character and attributes of the All-Merciful, that those musk-laden breaths may perfume the nostrils of the world and the light of the great guidance may illumine both East and West   AB00979

Generosity, courage, faithfulness, truthfulness, etc., are all shining stars and brilliant planets. They are the cause of the illumination of hearts, of the assurance of souls, of the honor and dignity of man in this world and in the Kingdom.   ABU1798


When this reality gaineth freshness, beauty and purity; the effulgence of the lamp of divine guidance and the gracefulness and purity of the glass of capacity are interconnected and the truth of Light upon Light will be manifest and recognised.  AB11194

We beseech God to adorn His loved ones with the ornament of spiritual virtues and goodly, pure deeds, that the people of the earth may, by reason of their conduct and deeds, be led to seek that station and attain unto that which God hath willed.  BH00242

But you are radiant with the bounties of the Abha Kingdom and are shining and resplendent with the lights of Truth. For the true light and spiritual radiance is the divine light that shines forth and gleams in the realities of God's chosen ones.  AB05511

"divine counsels and heavenly admonitions, the teachings of the Most Glorious Beauty and kindness to humanity, love for all people, truthfulness and friendship toward all, reviving the dead and comforting the dispossessed, helping the fallen..."  AB01289


All must aid the Cause of the Goal of the world through praiseworthy character, good deeds, wisdom and utterance. It hath been repeatedly mentioned that the hosts are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character, and the commander is the fear of God.   BH02109

A hundred thousand ornaments and garments of silk and brocade cannot equal a single one of the goodly attributes of man, for through one divine attribute and one heavenly characteristic he becometh manifest and renowned throughout all the world.   BH01462

How many servants there are who throughout their lives wear only rough cotton or wool, yet because they have donned the garment of guidance and piety, they have been clothed in the robes of God's good-pleasure and find delight in His satisfaction.  BB00003

Through divine bounty and gift you have attained such endless favors and reached such boundless bestowal. Therefore, fill your spiritual pocket with these pearls of bestowal and these merciful gems, and know their worth and understand their value.  AB11651

Thy loving nature is the cause of joy and delight to the friends of God, and thy radiant countenance is the dawning-place of infinite glad-tidings. Thy musk-laden breath is fragrant, and thy precious self is beloved and renowned in this gathering.  AB05238

Truly the spiritual quality of the holy place, its fresh skies and delicate air, its crystal waters and sweet plains and charming seascape, and the holy breathings from the Kingdom all do mingle in that Sacred Fold. Thou art right to linger there.  AB09695

Be radiant of face, and from every direction inhale the sweet fragrance of the Beloved. Open thine eyes unto the Self-Sufficient Lord and become intimate with His mysteries. Be content with every condition and find companionship with peace of mind.  AB09945

The sweet-scented fragrance of the human flower is the divine perfume. If this musk-laden scent is diffused from the human flower, that flower will bloom in the garden of all humanity, and that bud will become radiant in the Most Glorious Paradise.  AB09450

Thou art assured of the Luminary of the horizons and art a believer in His Holiness the Herald, the Dawning-Place of effulgence. Thou dwellest beneath the shade of the Word of Divine Unity and art encompassed by the favors of His Holiness, the One.  AB07663

You were of radiant countenance, abundant in ecstasy, fluent of tongue, strong of heart. No blame of any blamer took hold of you, no oppressor's might frightened you, no reviler's curse saddened you. Rather, you remained firm like a mighty mountain  AB11821

Be thou detached from the world. Walk thou in My footsteps. Thus do We command thee, if thou art of those who understand. Avoid whatsoever God, thy Lord, abhorreth. Strive within thyself that there may appear from thee goodly deeds and pure effects   BH05160

O friends! Beseech God, glorified and exalted be He, that He may enable all to succeed in matters that will perpetuate their remembrance. All must be like unto the morning star, radiant and resplendent from the horizons of the heaven of divine love.   BH00764

The purpose of that honored brother's remaining in that land is that human qualities and his station may be spread in that city, and that the fragrance of trustworthiness, religion, chastity, truthfulness, sincerity and faithfulness may be diffused.   BH01683

The friends should be like this, striving to honor and venerate one another, whether living or deceased. Now that you have arisen to perform this righteous deed and carried that deceased one's casket with the utmost respect, causing others to marvel   AB06914

Therefore these cities and this mountain have a spiritual atmosphere. If man is in the mood of quiet and meditation, and passes through here and at the same time meditates, he will feel as though this mountain and this wilderness are speaking to him.  ABU2010

May they become quickened through Thy remembrance and attain everlasting life through Thy love. Make fragrant their nostrils that they may become worthy of Thy Most Holy Court and engage in worship, service, supplication, and utter humility and need.  AB09349

"Divine guidance is a precious jewel, adorning the crown of eternal glory, brilliant, radiant and shining. Know thou its worth, for it is an ornament to the diadems of the maidens of paradise, and to the banners of glory, and to the verses of beauty."  AB07210

spiritual identities, divine leaves, lordly essences and heavenly realities, each one of them devoted to Thee, supplicating at Thy gate, imploring at Thy threshold, speaking Thy praise, yearning for Thy presence, gazing toward Thy most exalted horizon  AB02304


The glory and honor of man lies in virtuous qualities and praiseworthy characteristics, and his nobility and distinction in nearness to the divine threshold. Otherwise the wealth of this world is vain merchandise and its seekers are among the evil ones   AB00817


The excellence of the servants of Truth is of two kinds: some are in the station of excellence (hasan) and others in that of greater excellence (ahsan). Excellence is attained through obligatory acts, and greater excellence through supererogatory deeds.  AB09421





the loved ones of God who are illumined by the Sun of Truth must associate with the people of the world with seeing eyes, hearing ears, radiant countenance, divine consciousness, expansive breast, capacious heart, spiritual openness and godly beneficence  AB05832


Therefore they must arise to that which befits this station and is worthy of this glory - namely, purity and detachment, radiance and sanctification, chastity and holiness, spirituality and cleanliness, perfection and knowledge, detachment and luminosity.  AB07515




All the friends of God must adorn themselves with goodly character, befitting conduct and pure utterances. Praiseworthy qualities are as hosts that assist and support the Cause of God. Blessed are they who have conquered the cities of hearts with these hosts.  BH02930


Today the loved ones must be illumined with the light of righteousness and set ablaze with the fire of detachment. The teacher must be adorned with the ornament of detachment, godliness, trustworthiness and piety. This is the command of God, before and after.   BH00571


Today, whatsoever deed is manifested from those who are nigh and the monotheists for the sake of God is effective and influential in the world. We counsel all to observe chastity, trustworthiness, faithfulness, mercy, compassion, generosity, and likewise wisdom.  BH11768

To live the life. To be no cause of grief to any one. To love each other very much. To be kind to all people and to love them with a pure spirit. Should opposition or injury happen to us, we must bear it and be as kind as ever we can be, and through all, we must love the people.   ABU1013

The fruits of the Tree of existence have been and are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. Blessed is the soul that turns from what the people possess to what God possesses - such a one is accounted among those who have turned to Him in the Perspicuous Book.   BH00738

Let nothing in this world be deemed of importance save the manifestation of human virtues, qualities and praiseworthy characteristics, which are the greatest trust of God; and this divine effulgence consisteth in the appearance of these counsels and exhortations.  AB05007


The Wronged One of the horizons hath summoned the people unto truth and commanded them to practice praiseworthy conduct. Today the hosts which bear the standards of triumph and the banners of victory have been and continue to be goodly deeds and pleasing character.  BH10074

We counsel each one to that which is the cause of the manifestation of love and the reformation of the world. The station of man is wisdom, nobility, kindliness, trustworthiness and religiosity. Goodly character is accounted as the mightiest of hosts in the world.   BH01577

Man becomes human only through spiritual life, and the foundation of such a life is made up of heavenly perfections, divine attributes, service to humanity, eagerness to receive eternal bounties, praiseworthy morals, unity, love of God, wisdom and knowledge of God   ABU1611


Today is the day of deeds and actions, and in truth the helper of the Cause is a goodly deed and a goodly character, not hosts and swords. The triumph of a single pure deed is, in the sight of God, greater than the victory of an army that striveth in the path of God   BH07549

The beloved of God must be the cause of spreading the Heavenly Love. They must impart spiritual concord; deal with all men in the utmost sincerity and kindness in accord with the commands and exhortations of the Merciful One. And they must treat all with benevolence.  AB09118

That which the Wronged One seeketh from all is the preservation of their own stations. All must adorn themselves with the ornament of truthfulness, sincerity, trustworthiness, righteousness, and chastity. This is the counsel of God, both in the past and in the future.  BH11874

Be thou God's gift and the bestowal of the Abha Beauty, that thou mayest become a mercy unto the world of humanity and a gift from the Lord God, guiding every lover of fellowship to truthfulness, reconciliation, love, kindness, fellowship, oneness, freedom and purity.  AB09337


This is the day of spiritual virtues, goodly words and righteous deeds. I swear by the Sun of the horizon of utterance, shining and manifest from the heaven of the Most Great Prison, that the hosts of virtuous character and deeds are mightier than the hosts of the world.   BH02375

Today must the loved ones of God appear with such radiance as to illumine the world, and with such a fire as to set ablaze the hearts of the peoples. Blessed is the soul whom the affairs of men have not debarred from the ocean of grace nor held back from the Sun of Truth.  BH11649


Adorn yourselves with My characteristics and embellish yourselves with My nature, that sorrows may not prevent you from turning toward the All-Merciful, nor the might of all possible things deter you from gazing upon the face of your Lord, the Dawning-Place, the Luminous.   BH04479


These are humility and supplication, good character, detachment and attraction, kindness to all peoples of the world, and truthfulness. You must be truthful, for if a person is adorned with all praiseworthy attributes but lacks truthfulness, no good deed will be of benefit  ABU0852

He trained souls who are as precious jewels, who are among those of pure heart, who are sincere, whose heads are filled with passionate devotion, who are enchanted and enthralled with the Beloved of the horizons, who are aflame and attracted, and who are engaged in service  AB08657

The Persian friends truly worship God with the utmost sincerity and steadfastness and associate with all people with the utmost joy and fragrance. This prisoner is delighted and pleased with their conduct and behavior, and grateful and overjoyed at their character and manner.  AB03512

What harms the Cause is conduct contrary to the blessed good-pleasure and lack of adornment with the virtues and qualities of the people of truth. If the divine friends become centers of divine inspirations, they will with a single ray obliterate and destroy these darknesses.   AB00507

Honesty, virtue, wisdom and a saintly character redound to the exaltation of man, while dishonesty, imposture, ignorance and hypocrisy lead to his abasement. By My life! Man's distinction lieth not in ornaments or wealth, but rather in virtuous behaviour and true understanding.  BH00111

to be a well-wisher for the ill-wisher; an intimate companion for the wicked enemy; a loving friend for the erring foe who stabbeth the dagger into the middle of the heart; to meet the ill-tempered slanderer with favour and praise; and not to offend, hurt, annoy or avoid anyone  AB01187

O thou who art pure in heart, sanctified in spirit, peerless in character, beauteous in face! Thou art dark in countenance and bright in character. Thou art like unto the pupil of the eye which is dark in color, yet it is the fount of light and the revealer of the contingent world.  AB10201


Be thou a divine gift and a bestowal of the Abha Beauty, that thou mayest become a mercy unto the world of humanity and a bounty from the Lord God, guiding all who are filled with love toward truthfulness and reconciliation, love and kindness, fellowship and unity, freedom and purity.  AB09337

We counsel all to manifest praiseworthy character, goodly deeds, love, fellowship and unity. The Most Exalted Pen hath, both formerly and recently, counseled all concerning that which is the source and origin of the appearance of the pearls of wisdom and utterance from the mine of man.  BH06002

The strangers have become estranged, while thou hast become a bird of this nest and a flower of this rose-garden. Therefore, diffuse sweet fragrances, show forth a goodly character, and let thy radiant face shine forth, that thou mayest adorn the world and be as a soul to the universe.  AB09197

Valiant acts will ensure the triumph of this Cause, and a saintly character will reinforce its power. Cleave unto righteousness, O people of Baha! This, verily, is the commandment which this Wronged One hath given unto you, and the first choice of His unrestrained Will for every one of you.  BH00238


On the other hand, man must acquire heavenly qualities and attain divine attributes. He must become the image and likeness of God. He must seek the bounty of the eternal, become the manifestor of the love of God, the light of guidance, the tree of life and the depository of the bounties of God.  ABU0139

If a man is illiterate, yet adorned with these attributes he is by far superior to the man who is learned and educated but lacks morality and spirituality. Human Society is not harmed by the former, but if the latter abuses his learning and changes it into cunning much harm will be the outcome.  ABU1705



Those meanings are devotion and supplication, detachment and attraction, ecstasy and joy, truthfulness and fairness, trustworthiness and religion, enthusiasm and rapture, yearning and delight, heavenly exaltation and eternal glory, everlasting life, and human virtues through the merciful spirit.  AB04127

Man must adorn himself with that which befits him and be embellished with conduct worthy of him. In the nights and days the Pen of Counsel has not ceased, and has revealed that which is the cause of the exaltation and elevation of souls and the comfort and tranquility of the people of the world.   BH01633

Pure deeds, pure words, and praiseworthy character are counted among the mighty hosts of the Truth, exalted be His glory. The acts and deeds of the beasts of the earth have had and have no worth. One must conquer the horizons of hearts through the hosts of goodly deeds and praiseworthy character.  BH00536

O Ashiq! O Hasan! We beseech God to adorn you with goodly deeds and praiseworthy conduct. Corruption, conflict and contention are the attributes of predatory beasts of the earth, while the attributes of man are benevolence, forbearance, love, faithfulness, trustworthiness, religiosity and purity.  BH00299

We ask God graciously to grant that all may evince such fairness of character, such goodliness of deed and kindliness of word as will meet with His good pleasure. It hath been decreed that the citadels of men's hearts should be subdued through the hosts of a noble character and praiseworthy deeds.  BH04900


Strive thou, in this springtime of youth, to adorn thyself with the ornament of goodly character and conduct, with benevolent deeds and praiseworthy actions. The criterion of human beings is the manifestation of humanity, which is the expression of those spiritual perfections that lie hidden within.  BH08732

The hosts of victory are goodly deeds and praiseworthy attributes. In the divine Tablets this word hath repeatedly been revealed: We have enjoined upon all the fear of God and that whereby stations and ranks are elevated. Blessed are they that act. One word setteth ablaze, and another extinguisheth.  BH00691


Goodly character is, each and every one, a helper of the Truth. In diverse Tablets We have enjoined upon the servants amity, trustworthiness, faithfulness, love, compassion, and unity. Blessed is he who hath with the ear of reality hearkened unto the divine counsels and acted in accordance therewith.  BH11668

Let them arise with utmost chastity, with consummate purity, with steadfastness in the Cause, and faithfulness in the Covenant. Let them distinguish themselves through the illumination of their hearts, their unsullied spirituality, and their continual remembrance of His Name and their genuine virtue.   AB04641


Then it is evident that excellence does not depend upon color. Character is the true criterion of humanity. Anyone who possesses a good character, who has faith in God and is firm, whose actions are good, whose speech is good -- that one is accepted at the threshold of God no matter what color he may be.   ABU0256


O people of the Caucasus! In conclusion We counsel you to observe trustworthiness, godliness, chastity, truthfulness and fidelity. In this day, the hosts of God have ever been and are goodly deeds and praiseworthy character. By these hosts give victory to the Cause of God and conquer the citadels of hearts.  BH00558

I swear by the Sun of Revelation which hath dawned from the Dawning-Place of utterance that praiseworthy deeds and goodly actions are the cause of the exaltation and elevation of the existence of the servants. Blessed is he who hath adorned himself with the robe of virtues which God hath sent down in the Book.  BH06104

Friends should regularly recite the Persian and Arabic Hidden Words and behave in accordance with them. If we live for only one day in conformity with those divine edicts, it will have a profound effect in all corners of the earth. Once a lamp is lit, it will instantly give brilliance to all its surroundings.   ABU0855




"It is to know that the friends are endowed with the nature and disposition of the Merciful One and with spiritual attributes, that they are the essence of truthfulness, and the mediators of peace and concord; that they have no will but the good-pleasure of God and seek no happiness except in personal sacrifice"  AB01304

They have not properly understood that man's supreme honor and real happiness lie in self-respect, in high resolves and noble purposes, in integrity and moral quality, in immaculacy of mind. They have, rather, imagined that their greatness consists in the accumulation, by whatever means may offer, of worldly goods.  AB00004

Therefore, strive ye that ye may become the embodied teachings of the Blessed Perfection, confirmed in the divine precepts, resurrected in holiness and purity, severance, humility and meekness, set aglow with the fire of divine love; and loosen your tongues with the praises and commendations of the Heavenly Kingdom.  AB02630

The light of man is not this effulgent quality from the sun and moon, rather it is chastity and purity and guidance and truthfulness and spirituality and attraction and submissiveness and humility and lowliness and contrition and evanescence and annihilation and utterance and expression and the essence of exposition.  AB07433

Strive to perform such deeds in this mortal abode of dust that thou mayest become a manifestation of the signs of the All-Merciful, and the dawning-place of the effulgence of the Him who is the All-Praised, and like unto a fruitful tree bring forth the goodly fruits of qualities and attributes of the Luminous Beauty.  AB05578

O Abdullah! Today refinement of character and virtuous conduct are necessary for everyone. Each one must be mindful of all, not only of themselves. From the horizons of all hearts must shine forth the sun of kindness and grace. Love for one another has been and will ever be the cause of the descent of infinite bounties.  BH10940

They offer praise beyond description of you, that praise be to God, you are a flame from the fire of the love of God and a servant of the handmaidens of the All-Merciful. You bear the burdens of the friends and willingly shoulder the difficulties of the loved ones. You are illumined and merciful, spiritual and heavenly.  AB07878

All on earth know that good character is praiseworthy and acceptable while bad character is condemned and rejected, that justice and fairness are acceptable and familiar while tyranny and inequity are rejected and condemned. Despite this, all people except a few souls are deprived of praiseworthy character and justice.   AB00423

Adorn your temples with good conduct, your tongues with truthfulness, and your hearts with the ornament of virtues whereby the Cause of God hath been made manifest throughout all ages.  BH11793

When morals are reformed and established, progress in all ranks becomes inevitable. No nation finds prosperity and success without moral reform. Through moral improvement, sciences and arts flourish, thoughts become infinitely enlightened, truthfulness and trustworthiness and zeal and honor and high endeavor surge forth   AB02523

Distinguish yourselves through your sanctity and detachment, your loftiness of purpose and magnanimity, your determination and nobility of mind, your tenacity, your high aims and your spiritual qualities that you may become the means of exaltation and glory to the Cause of God and the dawning places of His heavenly bestowals.  AB01329

Let God's beloved, each and every one, be the essence of purity, the very life of holiness, so that in every country they may become famed for their sanctity, independence of spirit, and meekness. Let them be cheered by draughts from the eternal cup of love for God, and make merry as they drink from the wine-vaults of Heaven.   AB01432

The cause of ease, tranquility and assurance in the world of existence hath ever been and shall continue to be virtuous conduct. This station is an unfathomable ocean - were this evanescent one to attempt to make mention of its fishes, pearls and hidden treasures, he would need to compose a book equal to the books of the people.   BH01103

become the center of human virtues and the appearances of divine perfections, that your hearts be adorned with the commemoration of God, your faces illumined with the light of the love of God, your ears may hear the melodies of sanctity, your spirits may be gladdened with divine glad tidings, your tongues may move in praising God   ABU1456

A man must characterize ourselves with the attributes of divinity.  ABU1585



The conscientious kind consists of the light of faith and love of the All-Merciful. The verbal kind consists of acknowledgment and recognition of the favors of the All-Glorious. And the physical kind consists of deeds, actions, conduct and acts of worship that herald the new outpouring from the presence of the Self-Subsisting Lord.  AB11076


A good character is, verily, the best mantle for men from God. With it He adorneth the temples of His loved ones. By My life! The light of a good character surpasseth the light of the sun and its effulgence. Whoso attaineth unto it is accounted as a jewel among men. The glory and the upliftment of the world must needs depend upon it.  BH00308

The friends of God in every city must become known for their divine qualities, for their calmness and dignity, patience, kindness, sincerity and truthfulness, goodwill toward all people, pure intentions toward all God's creation, obedience to royal command, and their attraction, enthusiasm, rapture, joy, longing and burning passion.   AB00428

God originally endowed man with an individuality which enjoyed that which was beneficial and shunned the drug; but man through his evil habits changes this creation and transforms the divine illumination into satanic darkness. As long as man is a captive of habit, pursuing the dictates of self and desire, he is vanquished and defeated.  ABU0384

They must surely seek to excel others in human virtues, divine characteristics, firmness in the Cause, steadfastness in love, the exaltation of the Word, and the diffusion of the divine fragrances. They must turn to the All-Merciful Lord and become distinguished from all others in their conduct, deeds, and words, moving swiftly forward.  AB00449

A goodly word is like unto a goodly tree whose roots are firmly fixed and whose branches reach unto heaven. Know thou that when noble character traits and refined qualities that spread and diffuse throughout all regions are joined with nobility of lineage, this constitutes a universal divine relationship and a luminous spiritual reality.  AB09682


Become a sign of the love of God and inhale a fragrance from the rose-garden of Abha, that thou mayest attain eternal life and seek everlasting joy and delight. Like unto a star, thou shalt shine, and like a candle, thou shalt be aflame. Thou shalt become a manifestation of bounty and the essence of sanctity, detachment and supreme purity.  AB09161

Hold fast unto the cord of deeds and character, that there may appear from you that which shall attract the hearts of those in all lands. Know ye that the hosts of good character are the mightiest hosts in the world. Consider this, O ye who are endowed with insight! Through these shall your stations and ranks be elevated among the parties.   BH01488

The individuals of humanity are in different degrees. They are like unto the candlesticks. There is a candlestick whose candle sheds light and illumination; another candlestick is holding a candle but not yet ignited; a third has not a candle and is for a mere show; a fourth has had a candle but now it has burned out and is forever extinct.  ABU2349

That is, he was well known for faithfulness, rectitude, trustworthiness, sincerity, generosity, charity and obedience to the Divine Laws. As he was also a man of means, he greatly assisted poor religious students with funds. In short, he was so perfect in his life and deeds, that no one could find the least flaw or defect in his character.   ABU0134

Today all must be illumined with the light of His Cause and enkindled with the fire of the Sacred Tree, and with utmost love and faithfulness take the most great cup from the Most Glorious Cupbearer, and drink and imbibe it despite the enemies, and occupy themselves with the remembrance of the One True Goal and the One True Object of Worship.  BH00733

Therefore, like the cypress trees in God's garden, ye must sway beside this stream of the All-Merciful, that the birds of the mysteries of Paradise may perch upon those branches and raise the most wondrous melodies in glorification, singing such songs as to transport the dwellers of the celestial realm into joy, gladness, delight and ecstasy.   AB04627

This capability is faith, certitude, insight, love, spirituality, luminosity, purity, freedom, sanctification, holiness, loftiness of purpose, and nobility of virtue. I hope that the members of that assembly will be adorned with these characteristics and virtues, and each day provide new proof of the existence of this gift in their own reality.  AB11927

Lord! He was submissive to Thy sovereignty, cognizant of Thy proof, attentive to Thy kingdom, enkindled with the fire of Thy love, severed from the world and all that is therein, in love with Thy beauty, desirous of Thy good-pleasure, acquiescent to Thy decree, intent upon the threshold of Thy holiness, and hopeful of the gardens of Thy paradise.  AB04554

His honor, Mr. Remey is, verily, of perfect sincerity. He is like unto transparent water, filtered, lucid and without any impurity. He worked earnestly for several years, but he did not have personal motive. He has not attachment to anything except to the Cause of God. This is the spirit of the firm and this is the characteristic of the sincere.   AB04992

The likeness of a goodly word is as a goodly tree, whose root is firmly fixed, and its branches reach to heaven. Know thou that when virtuous character and refined manners - which are widespread and well-known throughout all regions - are combined with noble lineage, this constitutes a universal divine relationship and a luminous spiritual reality.  AB09682

The sweetness of the divine remembrance so delighted his palate that he withdrew to a secluded corner and spent all his time in the remembrance of the Glorious Lord. I swear by the Ancient Beauty--may my spirit be sacrificed for the feet of His detached loved ones--that there is no pleasure greater than this, and no blessing more delightful than this.  AB08276

Time and again have We said that the victory mentioned in the Books, Scriptures and Tablets hath been through wisdom and utterance, as well as through deeds and character. By the life of God! The mightiest hosts of the world have been and are goodly character and pure deeds. The sword of virtue is keener than a blade of steel, were ye to understand.   BH01118

"If the body is unclean and untidy, the evil smell emanating from the pores of the skin will disgust others, likewise if the spirit is soiled with degrading habits and unchaste feelings, every one will fly from it and quit its association. The body and the spirit alike must be kept clean and pure; in order to become in the image and likeness of God."  ABU2264

This means that the Lord of Grandeur will give victory to this manifest religion by means of the exertion of an honoured person who distinguisheth truth from error. Such a person is endowed with enjoining that which is approved, and prohibiting that which is rejected; he is the manifestation of the holy verse 'He is fearing not the blame of any blamer'.  AB00451

How fortunate you are to have such two just witnesses who testify to your faith, certitude and firmness in the Covenant. Blessed are you who are nurtured by love and attracted to the Most Luminous Beauty, who are firm and steadfast, whose nostrils are perfumed with the sweetest musk, who are near to the Divine Threshold and tested in the field of trials.   AB04759

True spirituality is like unto a lake of clear water which reflects the divine. That which is truly spiritual must light the path to God, and must result in deeds. We cannot believe the call to be spiritual when there is no result. Spirit is reality, and when the spirit in each of us seeks to join itself with the Great Reality, it must in turn give life.   ABU2285

Jinab-i-Amin hath so praised that steadfast and upright person that every hearer becometh enamored of thy character. The praise of Jinab-i-Amin is heart-warming, for he hath no purpose save the expression of truth, and seeketh no object save service to the Sacred Threshold. He is without prejudice or malady; whatsoever he saith is assured and established.  AB02903

Today the people of the Most Exalted Paradise are souls who consider all else but God as non-existent and count it as naught. The tales of old do not prevent them from the highest horizon, nor do names deprive them from the shore of the ocean of meanings. In all conditions they are seated upon the throne of certitude and repose upon the seat of assurance.   BH05531

They are the children of the Kingdom. They have pure hearts. They have spiritual faces. The effect of the divine teachings is manifest in the perfect purity of their hearts. The hearts of all children are of the utmost purity. They are mirrors upon which no dust has fallen. They cannot display any great intelligence. They have neither hypocrisy nor deceit.   ABU0528

truthfulness in the path of God and fairness with people and mastery over self and association with the righteous and avoidance of the ignorant and respect for the great ones and kindness to the lesser ones and giving counsel to friends and forbearance with enemies and generosity to the poor and love for all people and guidance of those who have gone astray  AB08401

What a fine youth! How good natured, righteous and happy he was! He was a friend to all and exerted his utmost to serve everyone. I troubled him greatly, yet he never became sorrowful. I even physically punished him because it was necessary for his training and still he was not saddened. Sanctified be God! The more he was harassed, the greater was his love.   ABU0861

Angelic, divinely pure, radiantly spiritual, white as the snow on the summit of the mountain, white as the lily of the field - he stands amongst men as a flawless pearl of sanctification, as a spotless diamond of holiness and as a paragon of perfection to all mankind. Every Baha'i, nay rather every individual soul must attain to this lofty pinnacle of virtue.  ABU1187

Therefore the true handmaidens of the Blessed Beauty must be alive with the spirit of detachment and fresh with the breeze of attraction, with hearts overflowing with the love of God and souls gladdened by the glad-tidings of God, and with boundless humility and submissiveness, open their eloquent tongues and engage in glorifying and praising the Glorious Lord  AB01261


Faith is like a glowing candle, the human heart like a glass chimney, and the human body like a lamp-niche. That lamp and this glass and this niche - the light of that lamp shines upon the glass and from the glass it is diffused upon the niche. This means that the perfections of the human world have their center in faith. From faith do these perfections emanate.   ABU1662

They give life, they win hearts. They are the cause of life, not death. They are the cause of the world's prosperity, not its destruction. They are builders, not instruments of ruin. This is what God has specially given to men whom neither commerce nor trade can divert from the remembrance of God. God is well-pleased with them and they are well-pleased with Him.   ABU0796

Now is the time to become joyful and tearful from the intensity of love, to diffuse the musk-like fragrance and create excitement in all directions, to become honey-sweet with the sweetness of divine knowledge and achieve success and honor in both worlds, to arise early for humble supplication and become the lovers who bestow gifts through meekness and submission   AB01093

"And what is the fruit of the human tree? It is the Love of God. It is love for humankind. It is to wish good for all the people of the earth. It is service to humanity. It is truthfulness and honesty. It is virtues and good morals. It is devotion to God. It is the education of souls. Such are the fruits of the human tree. Otherwise it is only wood, nothing else."  ABU1655

Convey My greetings to the friends and say: God willing, may ye be dawning-places for the reformation of the world, adorned with praiseworthy characteristics, and in all conditions hold fast unto wisdom and depart not from it in your rising up, your sitting down, your speech, and your association with others.  BH01248

Be thou as a candle among the friends and burn away the veils of the people of possibility with the flame of love for the Beauty of the All-Merciful. Be thou a manifest sign of the Self-Subsisting Lord and a clear standard of the known Sun. Be thou a breeze from the rose garden of oneness and a fragrance from the meadows of the sanctification of the Glorious Lord.   AB07589

Like the violet, thou hast become intoxicated and bewildered, fallen from the wine of the love of God, and like the narcissus thou hast opened thine eyes to behold the beauty of the King of the Rose Garden. Like the cypress in the garden of knowledge thou hast grown tall, and like the nightingale thou hast sacrificed head and soul, lamenting with various melodies.   AB05825

They have spirit and consciousness. They have understanding. They are intoxicated from the cup of the wine of the All-Merciful. They are overcome by the wine of address of the Lord God. They are occupied with the remembrance of God. They are intimate in the sanctuary of infinite mysteries. They are detached from all else save God. They are aware in the Cause of God.  AB11818

Let the corps of the professors and the students be impressed with the purity and holiness of your lives - so that they may take you as paragons of worthiness, nobility of nature, observance of the moral laws, the subordination of the lower element by the higher spirit, the conquering of self and the overmastering of wholesome vital forces in all the avenues of life.  ABU2398

I testify that thou didst abandon desire and follow guidance, didst walk the path of righteousness and witness the greatest signs of thy Lord, didst adopt the highest example and become intoxicated with the wine of faithfulness, wert revived by the breeze of devotion and arose to serve the Cause of God, didst guide to the path of God and fulfilled the Covenant of God   AB03853

The people of God must, God willing, stand firm in His Cause with penetrating vision, steadfast hearts and unwavering feet, and must conduct themselves with their fellow-men with spiritual qualities. Today virtuous character and praiseworthy deeds have been and shall ever be the supporters of God's Cause, and this matter hath been repeatedly revealed by the Supreme Pen.   BH00469

Although thou art but a tender sapling in the garden of the love of the Most Great Oneness, yet we cherish strong hopes that, through the great bounty and profound favor of the Lord, the Gracious One, thou wilt become a fruitful tree in the meadow and garden of the knowledge of God, and wilt become a crimson tulip, growing and flourishing and casting a far-reaching shade.  AB08153

These creative verses, letters and words are the realities of the beloved ones and the most refined essences of those near to God. Such as the revealed verses are testimonies and miracles, the creative verses and words must also be extraordinary and distinguished realities. That is, creation must conform to revelation and revelation must possess the qualities of creation.  AB01817

Through you the springtime of inner meaning appeared in the world of utterance and the All-Merciful shed His effulgent splendour upon all created things. Through you the daystars of knowledge dawned forth, the heavens of all religions were illumined, the lights of the sciences shone brightly amongst the nations, and the sphere of the arts was expanded throughout the world.  BH00704

"Now that thou hast decided to live in Aleppo, thou must act, speak and conduct thyself with such holiness, sanctity, purity and chastity as to attract to the Cause everyone who comes in contact with thee, that everyone may testify that here lives in our midst an upright and virtuous man, that he has turned his face towards God, that he is spiritual, celestial and divine."  ABU0727

After all, the people of the Bayan should be characterized by the fragrance of the All-Merciful, and the loved ones of the Beloved must possess the gentle breezes of the All-Glorious, that all the peoples of the earth might inhale the divine perfumes from His loved ones, and distinguish the traces of truth from falsehood as clearly as the luminous morn from the dark night.   BH00834

All men say they love what is good, and hate everything that is evil! Sincerity is to be admired, whilst lying is despicable. Faith is a virtue, and treachery is a disgrace to humanity. It is a blessed thing to gladden the hearts of men, and wrong to be the cause of pain. To be kind and merciful is right, while to hate is sinful. Justice is a noble quality and injustice an iniquity.  ABU0660

Thou art he whom the veils of the world and the clouds of the nations did not hinder. Thou didst rend them all asunder through the power of recognition and didst seek the ultimate goal, the supreme end, and the most exalted horizon, and thou didst advance and hasten until thou didst arrive at the station whereon He Who conversed on Sinai was established upon the Throne of Revelation.   BH01522

In these days corruption hath appeared from every direction. The loved ones of God must therefore fix their gaze upon reformation, and remain sanctified and pure from corruption. Now, praise be to God, most kings and rulers bear witness to the absence of corruption in this community. In truth, the station of the people of God is that of kindliness, mercy and love towards all peoples.   BH00369

We counsel all to trustworthiness, religiosity, and chastity. O friends! Whosoever is adorned with these attributes is reckoned among God's servants and his name is mentioned in the Concourse on High. But whosoever is deprived thereof is not counted among the people of truth. Strive ye, that perchance ye may be adorned with such virtues and qualities as shall ensure eternal salvation.  BH11714

His good-pleasure lies in acquiring divine characteristics, holding fast to the ways of sanctification and self-effacement, showing humility and submissiveness before the loved ones of God, servitude at His exalted Threshold, diffusing the divine fragrances, uplifting the Word of God, fostering love and unity and oneness among God's loved ones, wishing well for all peoples and nations  AB01760

Night and day they burn with the soul-consuming fire that melteth all veils, and in the gathering of intimacy they are as night-illumining candles. They are ever occupied with the remembrance of the Ancient Beauty and beneath the shadow of the Educator of all peoples they are anemones in the garden of divine realities and faithful companions to the wanderers in the path of the Friend.   AB00410

Strive thou that all may manifest spiritual qualities amongst mankind, for praiseworthy character hath ever been and shall ever remain a guide. Every deed hath its fragrance, and that fragrance guideth and directeth. Even as the fragrance of flowers leadeth people to the garden, the fragrance of goodly deeds and character guideth men to God and draweth them to the court of the Beloved.   BH02447

We have enjoined upon all trustworthiness, godliness, truthfulness and fidelity. Among the people are those who have cast the command of God behind their backs and committed that which hath caused the faithful ones to lament. They have embraced wickedness and indecency and cast away righteousness and piety, and have uttered such calumnies as no ear in the world hath ever heard the like.  BH11689

It was in truth with great pleasure that I looked upon the picture which portrayed your noble selves. I found your faces glowing with the light of the love of God and each one of you bearing the tokens of His infinite grace. By my life, the glory of the All-Merciful shineth in your illumined faces and the signs of His guidance are manifest as though adorned with diadems of faithfulness.  AB07717

It befits one like thee to heal hearts and spirits, to cure souls of the disease of ignorance and blindness, and to become the means of this great bounty and mighty gift...If thou desirest mighty confirmation and success in this momentous matter, acquire these qualities: detachment, attraction, enkindlement, compassion, steadfastness, uprightness, and arising in the spirit of sacrifice.  AB02838

The intention is that from all may be diffused the sweet savors of holiness, and that they may become the cause of sanctification and detachment among the handmaidens of the earth. This is My bidding and My counsel. Blessed is the servant who has held fast to the command of his Lord, and the handmaiden who has held fast to the cord of the will of her Lord, the All-Merciful, the Generous.  BH11469

They are filled with the wine of the love of God and are diffusing the fragrances of divine knowledge. They cause no harm to any group in the world and are benevolent and well-behaved toward all peoples and nations. This is indeed true and this is from the bounties of the manifest light. The Persian friends possess a musk-scented disposition and their conduct and speech are honey-sweet.   AB02282

These are servants whose attributes the All-Merciful has revealed in the Qur'an through His exalted Word: "honored servants who speak not until He hath spoken, and who do His bidding." These are the hands of Truth amidst creation, the manifestations of power among the servants, and the recipients of knowledge among all lands. Blessed is he who holds fast unto them and clings to their hem.   BH01029


Be thou a fierce lion in the forest of the love of the Beauty of God, and in the wilderness of the love of the Lord be thou a graceful gazelle in motion. In the rose-garden of the remembrance of God become thou a melodious nightingale, and in the garden of the knowledge of God be thou a sweet-singing bird, and in the meadows of the mysteries of God be thou a songster of a thousand melodies.  AB10980

All of them are submerged in a sea of darkness, but you are enveloped in a sea of light. All are blind, but GOD has given you the power of sight. All are deaf, GOD has made you hearing. All are speechless, GOD has given you the power of eloquence. All are dead, GOD has quickened you. He has opened before your faces a door to all His favors. Therefore you must live in the greatest happiness.  ABU2086

Among the characteristics of refined morals are truthfulness, faithfulness, trustworthiness and God-consciousness. You must surely exert your utmost effort in these two great matters. By God, besides Whom there is no other God! Today there is no service to the Cause of God greater than acquiring divine characteristics, and no harm to the religion of God greater than reprehensible qualities.  AB06263

The essence of wisdom is the fear of God, the dread of His scourge and punishment, and the apprehension of His justice and decree. The essence of religion is to testify unto that which the Lord hath revealed, and follow that which He hath ordained in His mighty Book. The source of all glory is acceptance of whatsoever the Lord hath bestowed, and contentment with that which God hath ordained.  BH02183

Strive thou to be mentioned by the name of Truth in all the worlds. Hold fast unto virtuous conduct and cleave unto that whereby the attributes of thy Lord, the Most Holy, the Mighty, the Wondrous, may be elevated. By My life! Those souls who have succeeded in achieving goodly deeds and praiseworthy character have been and shall ever be the helpers of God. Blessed are they who have attained!  BH00584

Briefly, intelligible realities such as the praiseworthy attributes and perfections of man are purely good and have a positive existence. Evil is simply their non-existence. So ignorance is the want of knowledge, error is the want of guidance, forgetfulness is the want of remembrance, foolishness is the want of understanding: all these are nothing in themselves and have no positive existence.  AB01360

Be a home for the stranger, a balm to the suffering, a tower of strength for the fugitive. Be eyes to the blind, and a guiding light unto the feet of the erring. Be an ornament to the countenance of truth, a crown to the brow of fidelity, a pillar of the temple of righteousness, a breath of life to the body of mankind, an ensign of the hosts of justice, a luminary above the horizon of virtue.   BH03420

Sanctify your souls from satanic deeds and adorn them with divine attributes. Corruption and contention have never been, nor shall ever be, worthy of the people of truth. Shun reprehensible acts and walk in the paths of sanctity, submission and contentment. Strive that divine qualities and attributes may be made manifest from you, and walk among mankind with perfect detachment and tranquility.  BH00647

Make them the manifest signs of Thy oneness, radiating light, and waves from the seas of Thy knowledge rising to the zenith of mysteries. O Lord! Make them speaking letters in the Book of Creation and words pointing to the Great Announcement. O Lord! Make them towering trees in the gardens of detachment and singing birds in the thickets of praise and roaring lions in the depths of the Kingdom   AB04228

Every good habit, every noble quality belongs to man's spiritual nature, whereas all his imperfections and sinful actions are born of his material nature. If a man's Divine nature dominates his human nature, we have a saint. Man has the power both to do good and to do evil; if his power for good predominates and his inclinations to do wrong are conquered, then man in truth may be called a saint.  ABU0706

The spiritual result is the appearance of divine bounties. The material result is the children who are born in the cradle of the love of God, who are nurtured by the breast of the knowledge of God, are brought up in the bosom of the gift of God and are fostered in the lap of the training of God. Such children are those of whom it was said by Christ: "Verily, they are the children of the Kingdom."  AB02847

The handmaidens of God and the bondsmaids in His divine Court should reveal such attributes and attitudes amongst the women of the world as would cause them to stand out and achieve renown in the circles of women. That is, they should associate with them with supreme chastity and steadfast decency, with unshakeable faith, articulate speech, an eloquent tongue, irrefutable testimony and high resolve.  AB09571

Through this mighty power, leaves were raised up who, like the greatest of men, rode forth in the arena of sacred glory and were confirmed with such power that they withstood all who exist. They never became sorrowful at the ascension of their children, nor did they weep at separation and deprivation from their offspring. Therefore, you too should be patient and forbearing like those pure essences.   AB06593

those holy souls are alive with the divine breath and fresh and verdant from the breeze of providence. They have a passion in their heads and hearts aflame in their breasts. They touch the heart and soul of every unaware one and make those who are lost and bewildered become enamored with the face of the Beloved. They give the Water of Guidance to the thirsty and bestow the Water of Life to the dead.   AB00962

His visage shone, his tongue was eloquent, his strength and steadfastness astounding. When he opened his lips to teach, the proofs would stream out; when he chanted or prayed, his eyes shed tears like a spring cloud. His face was luminous, his life spiritual, his knowledge both acquired and innate; and celestial was his ardor, his detachment from the world, his righteousness, his piety and fear of God.  AB00002

Among them was the Dove of Thy sanctity who warbled upon the branches of the Tree of Thy mercy, and sang with the most wondrous melodies in the Garden of Paradise with such rhythm as stayed the birds from their flight and the waters from their flow, and chanted with such tones as drew unto him the hearts of the Concourse on High and delighted the maidens of Heaven secluded in pavilions of understanding.   AB00330

They must endeavour to consort in a friendly spirit with everyone, must follow moderation in their conduct, must have respect and consideration one for another and show loving-kindness and tender regard to all the peoples of the world. They must be patient and long-suffering, that they may grow to become the divine magnets of the Abha Kingdom and acquire the dynamic power of the hosts of the realm on high.  AB02936

This servant submits that your honor should never be saddened by these matters, for truly if several times that amount were at your service and were all lost in transactions, not an atom would be diminished from your station at the Most Holy Court. For the Most Pure, Most Luminous, Most Holy gaze has not been and is not directed to such matters, and losses in trade and commerce have no bearing on your honor.  BH09212

"Ye have been crowned with light by the bounteous rays of the Abha Beauty, and have been robed in the silken garments of the sanctuary of His paradise. The fire of the love of God hath illumined your faces and ye have stripped away and burned the veils of idle fancies and vain imaginings in its heat. Ye have beheld the Beauty of the one true God, and witnessed His radiance emanating from the spiritual realm."  AB03144

You possess a foundation of the essence of the world of the spirit, and a nature from the radiance of the divine cosmos. What more do you want, what more do you seek, what more do you desire? You have the treasure of spirit in your sleeve and a face like the sublime paradise, for you bear in your countenance a ray from the sun of the supreme heaven and in your character a fragrance from the rose garden of God.   AB06023

He was the essence of tranquility and the embodiment of love for the Countenance of the Self-Subsisting. From the holy fragrance of mystical knowledge his mind was perfumed, and from love of the All-Glorious Beauty his collar was rent. Day and night he was occupied with the remembrance of God and was intimately attracted to the breezes of the Spirit. His eye was bright and his soul like a rose garden and meadow   AB01731

Be a truthful speaker and a skilled physician. Heal the sick and be a balm to the wounded heart and soul. Seek the well-being of all horizons and strive for the comfort of all who dwell on earth. Be the cause of gladness to the world of humanity and the means of prosperity for the servants of God. Be loving towards all creation and wish well for all humanity. Be at peace with everyone and deal truthfully with all  AB08605

The friends of God should bestir themselves, therefore with a celestial strength and heavenly power, with divine assistance and an eloquent tongue, with sublime detachment and great joy, with a luminous brow and ardent devotion because their attachment to the sacred threshold necessitates these spiritual attributes and their acquisition of the virtues of servitude attracts the loving glances of the eternal Beauty.  AB00960

O blessed fruit! When you gaze upon the world of being, every soul is the fruit of a tree and every plant is a flower of the meadow. Fruit is of two kinds: good and not good, and its proof lies in its fragrance, taste and sweetness. Praise be to God that until now the sweet fragrance of your steadfastness and firmness has been diffused abroad and the taste and savor of your constancy and joy have been made manifest.  AB08673

I ask God to adorn your heads with the pearls of His favor, to ignite in your hearts the fire of the love of God, to free your tongues in utterance of eloquent words and excellent meanings and mysteries in the gathering of the pious, to make ye roses of the paradise of El-ABHA, angels of heaven, united in opinions, harmonious in thoughts and to manifest in your faces signs of holiness of the Kingdom among the people.  AB05944

Though you are outwardly distant and physically removed, in reality you are the focus of my attention and extremely near and before my sight, for you are firm, steadfast, established and unwavering. Today, divine nearness comes through steadfastness in His Cause. Every steadfast soul, though outwardly among the lowest people, is in reality drawn near to the Most Glorious Kingdom and intimate with the Supreme Concourse.   AB03943

They must occupy themselves with the improvement of character, the acquisition of spirituality, and the partaking of the lights of divine mercy. They must be well-wishers even to the ill-wishers, trustworthy to enemies, kind to the unkind, and show goodness to those of evil nature. They must respond to falsehood with truthfulness, so that they may truly deal with all creation in friendship, uprightness and truth-seeking  AB00760

May thou become a shining candle in every assembly, a flower in every meadow, a nightingale upon every rosebush. In this garden of God, may thou sing forth with a myriad melodies, and at this heavenly banquet, may thou be a musician and a singer, a dove of the rose-garden of mystery, a brilliant light upon the horizon of unity, and a radiant moon arising above the horizon of hope through the new grace of the Ancient Lord.  AB04103

God created humans to be the manifestation of human virtues, to be the cause of comfort and ease in the world, to be the cause of love and fellowship - not to be predatory animals shedding each other's blood, plundering each other's property, seizing land from one another. God desires humans to be angelic, illumined, just, fair, not transgressing, helping one another, so that perfect kindness may be achieved among humanity.  ABU0478

They must raise the melody of sanctification and send the cry of glorification to the Abha Kingdom. At present affairs have become most delicate, and all eyes are focused on the conduct and behavior of the friends and are vigilant regarding the character, manners and customs of the Baha'is. Therefore, the people of Baha must arise with utmost care and faithfulness to follow the counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty.  AB00225

Therefore, the confidants of the sanctuary of the All-Merciful's wisdom and the spiritual ones of the feast of God's love must strive in servitude at the Threshold of Reality and be sympathetic and kind to all humanity. They must become a balm for every wound and a remedy for every ailment, a refuge and shelter for every fearful one, and not become sorrowful and grieved by the accounts, complaints and tales of the claimants.   AB00220

Be thou loving to every afflicted one, a dispeller of sorrows to every grieved one, a refuge to every fearful one, a heavenly food to every destitute one, a balm to every wounded one, a consolation to dejected hearts, a blessing to unfortunate souls, a treasure to every begging one and a succor to every lamenting one--so that thou mayest be a banner of guidance and the essence of piety among the maid-servants of thy Supreme Lord.  AB06435

My hope is that thou shalt be the cause of guidance unto all, that thou mayest invite the people of the world to enter the spiritual kingdom, that thou mayest lead them step by step till they become luminous lamps in the assemblage of existence and shine in the gathering place of truth. May their words and their deeds bring radiance to the human world; may they become like the angels through their character and their qualities.   AB04168

It is possible to so adjust oneself to the practice of novility that its atmosphere surrounds us and colors all our acts. When these acts are habitually and conscientiously adjusted to noble standards, with no thought of the words that might herald them, then nobility becomes the accent of life. At such a degree of evolution one scarcely needs to try to be good any longer; all our deeds are the distinctive expression of nobility.   ABU1317

who has believed in You and Your verses, heard Your words, was quickened by Your breaths, was stirred by the breezes of Your gardens, witnessed Your lights, discovered Your mysteries, responded to Your call when it was raised from Your heaven, stood firm in Your love, remained steadfast in Your Cause, spoke in Your praise, and walked the straight path drawn to You, speaking of Your bounty, calling to You and proclaiming Your Name.   AB02165

His nature was mighty and His character was gentle. He was the ultimate in humility and submissiveness, and the epitome of modesty and courtesy. He was a refuge of protection for every fearful one, and an endless shelter for every fugitive. For every thirsty one He was a sweet-flowing sea, and for every lost one a path of salvation. For every suffering one He was healing, and for every wounded one He was the supreme healing remedy.  AB12131

This servant and that honored one and all must beseech the True Powerful One to first grant the success that all may be cleansed with the water of repentance and be adorned with the ornaments of trustworthiness, religiosity, chastity, truthfulness, sincerity, sanctity and faithfulness, and we must seek from Him that which is the cause of the exaltation, loftiness, ascendancy, elevation, glory and might of the people of divine unity.   BH00726

O Pen of the Most High! Recount unto him who hath turned unto Thy Lord, the All-Glorious, that which shall enable him to dispense with the sayings of men. Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing are but one single reality which hath manifold expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments. As thou dost observe, man's power to comprehend, move, speak, hear, and see all derive from this sign of his Lord within him.   BH00260

It behooveth every soul, upon hearing the call from the Kingdom of his Lord, the Most Glorious, to detach himself wholly from all things created between earth and heaven, to turn with radiant countenance toward the Supreme Horizon, and to say with his inner and outer tongue - nay, with every member which God hath created within him - "Here am I, here am I, O Lord of Names! Here am I, here am I, O Thou Who art the Promised One in all the Tablets!"  BH00239

Today all things are adorned and illumined with the lights of true unity. The glance of His loving-kindness hath ever been and continueth to be directed towards His loved ones - they who are detached from all else save God, who hold fast unto the cord of divine love, who act according to that which hath been sent down in the Book, and who are so steadfast in the Cause that the deniers, the barking ones, and the deceivers find no occasion to speak.  BH01243

These are not the marks of distinction. On the other hand there are sanctified souls, the signs of their divine sanctity and spirituality become apparent in the hearts of others. People are unconsciously attracted to them through their pure morality, their justice and loving-kindness. Every one is drawn to them through their praiseworthy attributes and pleasing qualities and all the faces are illumined by the lights of their virtues and integrity.  ABU2150

When his carriage had come only part of the way from Haifa to 'Akka, one could already perceive his spirit, his light. He was nothing but light from head to foot. Just to look at that face made one happy; he was so confident, so assured, so rooted in his faith, and his expression so joyous. He was truly a blessed being. He was a man who made progress day by day, who added, every day, to his certitude and faith, his luminous quality, his ardent love.  AB00002

Blessed is he who hath purified his ears to hearken unto the Word of God, and blessed the heart that hath tasted the sweetness of His love, and blessed the eye that hath turned toward the court of His loving-kindness, and blessed the foot that hath walked in the path of His good-pleasure, and blessed the soul that hath been purified and made good and illumined by these lights which have shone forth from the Dayspring of eternity with wondrous radiance.   BH09322

The results of this meeting are the change of the hearts into sweet and verdant flower gardens; the outflux of the fire of the Love of God; the discovery of the Mysteries of the Kingdom; the unfoldment of the Knowledge of God; the attainment to eternal life; entrance into the mount of transfiguration; the effulgence of the rays of the Sun of Reality; the acquirement of the excellences of the world of humanity, and the realization of everlasting felicity.  ABU1633

This luminosity comes through truthfulness, justice, trustworthiness, religion, faithfulness, pure-heartedness, detachment from all else but God, humility and submissiveness, meekness and contrition, awareness and enkindlement, eloquence and clear explanation. In brief, all spiritual virtues of the human world are lights, while animal characteristics like jealousy, anger, greed, attachment to this world and other animal traits are darkness upon darkness.   AB01434

Children are even as a branch that is fresh and green; they will grow up in whatever way ye train them. Take the utmost care to give them high ideals and goals, so that once they come of age, they will cast their beams like brilliant candles on the world, and will not be defiled by lusts and passions in the way of animals, heedless and unaware, but instead will set their hearts on achieving everlasting honour and acquiring all the excellences of humankind.  AB00824

The essential part of man is however his spiritual faculties, (the glad-tidings of God,) the powers of perception, the comprehension of the divine Mysteries. The spirit of man must be capable to journey throughout all the degrees of the world of creation; for instance he is in the East, he may travel throughout the West; he is living upon the earth he may travel the illimitable distance. Man must reach to this station. Otherwise he is not man he is an animal.   ABU0734

He was of excellent conduct. From the day he accepted this Cause he served until his final breath - truly, he did not pause for a moment. His movements, his conduct, his interactions - everything was teaching. He possessed learning and perfection. All enemies testified to his lofty station, saying that truly this person is unequaled in terms of character, conduct, speech, piety, trustworthiness and religious devotion. In all qualities he is unique and peerless.  ABU0617

This distinguished man was erudite, wise, and eloquent of speech. His native genius was pure inspiration, his poetic gift like a crystal stream. Throughout all his life, from earliest youth till he was feeble and old, he spent his time serving and worshiping the Lord. He bore hardships, he lived through misfortunes, he suffered afflictions. From the lips of the Manifestation he heard marvelous things. He was shown the lights of Paradise; he won his dearest wish.  AB00002

We hope that the beloved of God and the handmaids of the Merciful will, in accordance with the heavenly Teachings, serve the oneness of the world of humanity, regard religion as the basis of love and fellowship amongst the people, strive to harmonize religion and science, become a treasury of riches for the poor and a shelter and asylum for the fugitive, bring joy and radiance to the destitute, and aid the needy through the strengthening grace of the All-Merciful  AB12140

These will become very good, because they will receive Baha'i education. They will be reared beneath the shelter of Baha'u'llah. They are just like fresh plants which have been sown in the Garden of Abha. They will be reared through the heat of the Sun of Reality. Assuredly, amongst them will appear souls -- most blessed souls -- each one of whom will be a radiant candle in the world of humanity, souls who will shine from the Eternal Horizon even as stars shine.   ABU1781

You dealt with all parties with divine attributes and associated with heavenly characteristics. You harmed no one and uttered no evil word. You are well-wishers of the world, truthful with all creation, detached from corruption, obedient to the government, and self-sacrificing for the good of humankind. For you seek truthfulness, friendship, reconciliation and righteousness with all, and you stand aloof from hatred, enmity, corruption, warfare, contention and strife.  AB07769

This Call resembleth not the call of the first or the last, nor are its hearers like unto the souls of before or after. Observe how, despite being encompassed by the utmost severity and the most extreme affliction and abasement from all directions, yet from the horizon of the Prison the Sun of the Cause hath risen with such radiance that, were it beheld with the eye of the heart, it would be seen that its effulgence hath encompassed the kingdom of the seen and unseen.  BH00211

In this arena of the world, where the promptings of passion and wickedness have gained ascendancy over the hearts of all created things, and where the manifestations of tyranny and depravity have encompassed the hearts of men, do thou lay hold on the Most Great Handle and cling to the hem of piety, and turn thy face toward the Sun of Guidance, that the verses of divine sanctification may become established signs within the essence of thy being, not merely deposited therein.  AB08257

Put not on garments that cause grief to any soul, but rather wear such attire as bringeth joy to hearts when they behold it. Let your garments be refined, then grow more refined; let your garments be beautiful, then grow more beautiful. For whoso weareth garments that cause fear in any soul, or walketh upon earth in such manner as to cause apprehension in any soul, or moveth his face or hands in ways that cause fear in any soul - such are among those whom God loveth not to mention.  BB00004

I desire for you a universal patriotism. A high soaring bird attaches not its heart to its earth nest and abode. At every dawn it sings a new melody and at every eve it warbles the streams of divine mysteries in a new meadow. At one time it rises above the summit of the green mountains and spreads its imperial wings over deserts and plains and anon it breaks into ideal harmonies and chants the secrets of God. It is not attached to home and comfort nor is it limited to nest and abode.   ABU1724

Rather, this physical happiness is secondary, while the foundation of human glory lies in those virtuous qualities and perfections that adorn human reality. These are divine inspirations, heavenly bounties, heartfelt emotions, love of God, knowledge of the Divine, universal knowledge, intellectual perceptions and scientific discoveries. These are justice and equity, truthfulness and benevolence, innate courage and natural bravery, the protection of rights and the keeping of covenants.  AB00476

These are souls who have been purified, and men whom neither commerce nor trade can divert from Thy remembrance. Rather, they have been attracted by Thy holy fragrances, set ablaze with the fire of Thy love, illumined by Thy lights, and have partaken of the clouds of Thy mercy. Their inner secrets have become pure, their consciences refined, their eyes have been solaced, their ears have heard, and their spirits have rejoiced at the signs of Thy unity and the standards of Thy sanctity.  AB08981

They must promulgate the law of the Kingdom with deeds and not words. Thus may they become the quintessence of being, the signs of the Kingdom of God, standards of the Supreme Concourse. May ye be salutary water for the thirsty, an evidence of guidance for the seeker, protection and support for the helpless, a shelter and home for the wanderers, the treasury of the Kingdom for the poor; the source of hope and happiness for the disappointed; the remedy of the heart and soul for the ailing.   AB00530

Ask ye of God that He might knead the dust of certitude with the water of knowledge, and raise up souls who shall be seen as firm and steadfast as mountains in the Cause of the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, and who shall attain such a station that no earthly affair shall prevent them from God, exalted be His glory, and a door to another world shall be opened unto their beings. By the life of God! Any soul who attains even a trace thereof shall see all who are on earth as mere handfuls of dust.  BH01291

He was truly a surging sea and a soaring falcon. He had a luminous countenance, an eloquent and articulate tongue, and possessed remarkable power of steadfastness. When he opened his mouth, proofs would flow like a torrent, and when he engaged in prayer and supplication, his weeping eyes were like spring clouds. His face was radiant, his character divine. His knowledge was both acquired and innate, his aspirations celestial. His detachment, asceticism, piety and fear of God were divine attributes.  ABU0258

When he perfumed his nostrils with the sweet fragrance of the All-Merciful, he became completely selfless and detached from all else but the True One, sacrificing his own rest and comfort in the path of God. He migrated from Iran to the territory of the Ottomans, and, having dwelt for a while in 'Iraq, hastened to Rumelia. From thence he travelled to the Great City of Istanbul, where he occupied himself with service. He became famed throughout all parts, and was bound in fetters for his love of God.  AB00467

Contrary to this, that Manifestation of Divine Perfection and the Dawning-place of the lights of the Merciful should be the quickener of souls and reviver of bodies. Should instill life, not take it away. Should be the cause of existence, not death; should build, not destroy; He should shed light to the east and fragrance to the west. He should become a haven and a refuge to the downtrodden and enlighten those who are bereft of understanding. He should make the oppressors just, and the heedless wise.   AB01675

The handmaidens of God who have focused their attention on the Abha Kingdom, these are truly heavenly souls and are not dependent on the things of this world for they derive their bounty and grace from the infinite Source and seek their illumination from the lights emanating from God. They are enthralled by the rays of Truth and attracted to the divine Beloved. They are enkindled with the fire of His love, detached from all else but Him, faithful in their love and fruitful through His grace and bounty.  AB09946

You belong to the world of purity, and are not content to live the life of the animal, spending your days in eating, drinking, and sleeping. You are indeed men! Your thoughts and ambitions are set to acquire human perfection. You live to do good and to bring happiness to others. Your greatest longing is to comfort those who mourn, to strengthen the weak, and to be the cause of hope to the despairing soul. Day and night your thoughts are turned to the Kingdom, and your hearts are full of the Love of God.  ABU0665

They have arisen in all directions to spread the clear signs, to raise the standards, to promulgate the words, to rend asunder the veils, to speak with clear proof in demonstration of Thy Manifestation, to detach themselves from comfort and ease, to endure every hardship and suffering, to remain patient in calamity and tribulation, drawn to the kingdom of Thy oneness and enkindled by the fire ignited in the Tree of Thy singleness, occupied with chanting the verses of unity in affirmation of Thy oneness.   AB00270

Consider how fortunate and wise you were that they named you 'Abdu'l-Husayn (Servant of Husayn). A hundred thousand praises upon the mouth from which this blessed name issued forth! Now you must arise to fulfill whatever is required by this sacred name, that it may be witnessed and proven that "names descend from heaven." The conditions of this name are to acquire divine attributes, to diffuse the fragrances of God, to exalt the Word of God, and to remain firm and steadfast in God's Covenant and Testament.  AB07947

So that they may become lighted candles, so that the light of guidance may radiate from them, so that they may become shining stars in the Heaven of Truth, that the light of Truth may shine in this world, so that they may be the comforters of the people, so that they may live in accord with one another, so that they may sacrifice their own souls in the service of one another, so that they may be the consolers of the poor, so that they may be the kind parents of the orphans and so that they may relieve the sick.  ABU1237

Consider the mole beneath the ground. He constructs galleries and tunnels there, he builds with faultless art, yet he is a creature who lives in darkness, under the earth, not able to bear the sunlight, not able to work in the sweet air. Again, look at the spider. What artist could create anything better made than a spider's web? Even so those artists whose creations are perfect, and who themselves are ignorant of the life of the spirit, are like the mole and the spider, far below the level of the man of faith.  ABU2307

O Amin! In all conditions, keep thy gaze fixed upon God and His attributes. The purpose is that all should be pleased with thee. The Most Exalted Pen hath testified concerning thee to that which causeth the exaltation of the Word of God. However, following the example of God, exalted be His glory, in all conditions is beloved, especially for thee who art associated with Him, mentioned through Him, and known by Him. The fragrance of thy character should be so diffused that no one would find cause for discussion.   BH00824

As for the deeds thou didst inquire about, their mention is not permitted in tablets such as these, due to the weakness of the servants. However, the deeds and actions of God are manifest and evident, as revealed and inscribed in all the heavenly Books - such as trustworthiness, truthfulness, purity of heart in remembering God, forbearance, contentment with what God hath ordained, satisfaction with what He hath decreed, patience in tribulations - nay, rather gratitude for them - and reliance upon Him in all conditions.   BH00586

All must walk among men with goodly attributes and praiseworthy character, holding fast with complete sincerity and perfect piety. The best garment hath ever been and will ever be the garment of piety. Blessed is the soul that hath attained thereunto and is numbered among the God-fearing. Reprehensible deeds have ever been and will ever be rejected. All must conduct themselves in such wise as to become trusted and reliable to all on earth. This is the station of the people of truth, and after truth there is naught but error.   BH01335

It befitteth the intoxicated lovers of the Merciful Beauty, they who yearn for the effulgence of the divine countenance, to be distinct from such people, to be different because they are the confidants of His mysteries. It behooveth them to bring all created things under this sheltering shade, to soar in these heavenly realms and to roam and to explore these heights. Let them be signs of guidance, standards of the Concourse on High, birds of the meadows of truth, and in the rose-garden of divine singleness and essential unity.  AB00871

These Bahai women are the centers through which the world of humanity has improved and the morality advanced. These Bahai women are the radiant signs of the Kingdom of ABHA. These Bahai women are the instructors of the world of humanity. These Bahai women are the candles in the assemblage of the world of human kind. They are in the utmost firmness and power. Their will power is greater than that of man, their moral consciousness and intuition is superior to that of man, and in all the virtues of humanity they shine like unto the stars.   ABU0483

Today the sun of bounty is shining and the orb of loving-kindness is dawning and the heaven of mercy is raised up. Blessed are they who, for the sake of these two fleeting days, have not deprived themselves of the immortal Kingdom. Say: O friends! God willing, may ye appear before the faces of men adorned with the ornaments of trustworthiness, truthfulness and steadfastness, that all may be illumined and adorned by the effulgences of the light of these suns. Every deed that appeareth purely for the sake of God is as a shining and luminous sun.  BH00430

Today is the day of pure deeds and service to the Cause, that perchance the lights of goodly character may encompass the world and the hosts of righteous acts may capture heedless hearts and draw them to the direction of awareness. They should meet all with the utmost kindliness, forbearance and love, and present the Word. If it is accepted and the radiance of the All-Merciful is observed in their countenance, let them be thankful to God the Exalted. Otherwise, they should leave such a one to himself, without allowing him to perceive any lack of love.  BH00124

You must become distinguished for loving humanity, for unity and accord, for love and justice. In brief, you must become distinguished in all the virtues of the human world -- for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice and fidelity, for firmness and steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and service to the human world, for love toward every human being, for unity and accord with all people, for removing prejudices and promoting international peace. Finally, you must become distinguished for heavenly illumination and for acquiring the bestowals of God.   ABU0387

You must become eminent and distinguished in morals. In the love of God you must become distinguished from all else. You must become distinguished for loving humanity; for unity and accord; for love and justice. In brief, you must become distinguished for all the virtues of the human world; for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice and fidelity, for firmness and steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and service to the human world, for love toward every human being, for unity and accord with all people, for removing prejudices and promoting international peace.   ABU2112

Praise be to the Ancient Beauty - may my spirit be a sacrifice for His loved ones - Who through the grace, bounty and favor of His Most Great Name created souls who are manifest signs in the Book of Unity and perfect words in the Scripture of Detachment, rising stars in the horizon of divine knowledge and brilliant planets in the heaven of certitude, springs of life for seekers and ships of salvation for wayfarers, mighty refuge for the distressed and lofty shelter for the fearful, bright candles in the gathering of guidance and blazing torches in the arena of love  AB00987

Nobility of character is a divine bounty, inherent dignity, natural magnanimity, protection of rights, observance of covenant and testament, truthfulness in all matters, and love of reality in all conditions. It is sacrifice for the good of all, kindness and compassion towards all peoples of humanity, and adherence to divine teachings. It is service to the Kingdom of the All-Merciful, guidance of creation, and education of peoples and nations. This is the happiness of the human world, this is the exaltation of humanity in the contingent world, this is eternal life and heavenly glory.  AB00476

Guide people in the path of God like unto a lighted lamp. Be a herald among the people of the world like the favored angels. Rise like a radiant star from the Horizon of the Love of God. Surge like an overflowing sea by the winds of the Gifts of God. Move like a springtime breeze wafting from the Mystic Garden to Heaven. Lead like the illuminated morning of the Spiritual Horizons to the Placeless Sun of Truth. Be a speaking tongue and a true aurora. Be a shooting meteor and a down pouring cloud. Be a shining star and a glowing ray. Be all-embracing truth. Be a humble and modest being.  AB05308

O thou who art attracted by the fragrances of God! Thy letter was noted, and its contents were replete with spiritual attractions and firmness in the divine Covenant. Reading it brought joy. Through the grace of the Most Holy One, it is my firm hope that thou wilt ever remain in utmost freshness, delicacy and spirituality through the breezes of the Abha Paradise, and spend thy days and nights in spreading divine traces, diffusing lights, and explaining mysteries, so that in those regions the manifest signs may appear and the sweet fragrance of the love of God may reach the highest heaven.  AB02757

Be steadfast in the Cause of thy Lord in such wise that the whisperings of the devils may not cause you to slip - they who, when asked "Who is your Lord?" say "God Who created us by His command," yet when He appeared with the truth and came upon the clouds of destiny, they denied Him. Hold fast unto this sublime, exalted, mighty and all-knowing Tree. Verily it is the Sidrat al-Muntaha, the Ultimate Tree, and the Beauty of the All-Glorious in this Temple which is mentioned as the All-Glorious among the Concourse on High, lest thou be shaken by the winds of trials which blow from the direction of Satan.  BH00233

Through Him hath ended all that began from God, the Lord of the worlds. And upon His children and companions, whom God made the horsemen in the arena of wisdom and utterance, and the rivers of knowledge and exposition, through whom every idolator wailed and every idol cried out, every proud one fell and every oppressor was restrained, through whom the horizons gained the light of unity and the herald called from the most exalted station, through whom every hidden thing was revealed and every concealed thing emerged, every abased one was honored and every vainglorious one was humbled, and every haughty one submitted  BH10940

The story is told of a mystic knower who went on a journey with a learned grammarian for a companion. They came to the shore of the Sea of Grandeur. The knower, putting his trust in God, straightway flung himself into the waves, but the grammarian stood bewildered and lost in thoughts that were as words traced upon the water. The mystic called out to him, "Why dost thou not follow?" The grammarian answered, "O brother, what can I do? As I dare not advance, I must needs go back again." Then the mystic cried, "Cast aside what thou hast learned from Sibavayh and Qawlavayh, from Ibn-i-Hajib and Ibn-i-Malik, and cross the water!"   BH00306

Hold thou fast to the Covenant of thy Lord, and as the days go by, increase thy store of love for His beloved ones. Bend thou with tenderness over the servitors of the All-Merciful, that thou mayest hoist the sail of love upon the ark of peace that moveth across the seas of life. Let nothing grieve thee, and be thou angered at none. It behooveth thee to be content with the Will of God, and a true and loving and trusted friend to all the peoples of the earth, without any exceptions whatever. This is the quality of the sincere, the way of the saints, the emblem of those who believe in the unity of God, and the raiment of the people of Baha.  AB04591

The pearls and jewels of the world have no luster compared to these precious pearls which have appeared from the Treasury of the Pen of Knowledge of the Lord. Praise be to God! They have attracted hearts and souls and drawn them to the highest horizon. The fragrance of everything is its identifier; it showeth the way and giveth tidings, especially tidings that are mingled with the light of love and mixed with the musk of affection. Its diffusions are straight paths. From it floweth that which is the polish of spirits and bodies. It bringeth bodies to the station of spirits, and draweth spirits to a station that transcendeth mention and utterance.  BH01471

Beware, beware lest anything hold thee back, even if it be weightier than the creation of the heavens and earth. For verily, if thou dost not cast it from thy back, thou wilt not be able to move in this atmosphere which hath been spread in this court that hath appeared in this Glory, the Radiant, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Inaccessible. Cast from thy back every weight and from thy heart all that thou hast laden upon it, then purify thyself from all that thou hast seen, that thou mayest be illumined by this Fire which hath been kindled in the wilderness of knowledge beyond the Mount of grandeur and utterance, and that thou mayest be among the steadfast.  BH00544

Nay rather, the friends are stars in the high heavens of guidance, celestial bodies in the skies of divine grace, who with all their powers put the dark to flight. They break down the foundations of malevolence and hate. They cherish but one desire for the world and all its peoples: well-being and peace. By them, the ramparts of warfare and aggression are battered down. They have truthfulness and honest dealing and friendship for their goal, and kindness even toward a vicious foe; until at last they change this prison of treachery, the world, into a mansion of utmost trust, and turn this gaol-house of hatred and malevolence and spite, into God's Paradise.  AB00056

The most vital duty, in this day, is to purify your characters, to correct your manners, and improve your conduct. The beloved of the Merciful must show forth such character and conduct among His creatures, that the fragrance of their holiness may be shed upon the whole world, and may quicken the dead, inasmuch as the purpose of the Manifestation of God and the dawning of the limitless lights of the Invisible is to educate the souls of men, and refine the character of every living man -- so that blessed individuals, who have freed themselves from the murk of the animal world, shall rise up with those qualities which are the adornings of the reality of man.  AB00034

Blessed is the soul that has been purified and has known its corruption and its righteousness. Blessed is the spirit that has been stirred by the breath of the All-Merciful. Blessed is the nostril that has been perfumed by the fragrances of God. Blessed is the heart that has been gladdened by the breezes of God. Blessed is the eye that has beheld the beauty of God. Blessed is the ear that has hearkened unto the words of God. Blessed is the form that has arisen to serve the Cause of God. Blessed are the innermost parts that have been consumed by the fire of the love of God. Blessed is the liver that has melted from the flames of devotion in the path of God.   AB00154

This is a choice sapling which Thou hast planted in the meads of Thy love and hast nurtured with the fingers of Thy Lordship. Thou hast watered it from the well-spring of everlasting life which streameth forth from the gardens of Thy oneness and Thou hast caused the clouds of Thy tender mercy to shower Thy favours upon it. It hath now grown and developed beneath the shelter of Thy blessings which are manifest from the Dayspring of Thy divine essence. It hath burst forth into leaves and blossoms, is laden with fruit through the providence of Thy wondrous gifts and bounties and is stirred by the fragrant breeze wafting from the direction of Thy loving-kindness.  AB02825

Every noble one is lowly and every mature one is as an infant save those souls who place upon their heads the crown of the nobility of the love of God and nurse from the breast of His grace. Those souls are noble and mature, cherished and preeminent. They are lofty palm trees and radiant light. They are the dawning morn and the gleaming star. Those souls are servants of the Most Glorious Beauty and captives of grace and fidelity. They are stars in the zenith of glory and rain-laden clouds of bounty. They are signs of guidance and banners of piety. They are the horizon of truth and the dayspring of divine gifts. They are divine heralds and teachers of the Cause of the Infinite Lord.   AB02721

Now the friends of God must strive to establish the foundation of eternal glory - that is, to be associated with the people through divine attributes. They must be forbearing and mild, truthful and trustworthy, humble and submissive, benevolent and kind. They must obey the government and show goodwill toward all peoples. Should anyone fail to follow the path of justice and commit oppression and tyranny, they must pay no heed, but rather respond to cruelty with faithfulness, and to the sting of the serpent with honey and sweetness. They must counter abuse with care, and ignorance with knowledge and wisdom. They must respond to cursing and striking with praise and concealment, and treat wounds and injuries with love and healing.   AB00251

"Their faces will radiate heavenly gladness, and their hearts be filled with joy. Their souls will be inspired, and their foundation stand secure. They shall scatter in the world, and travel throughout all regions. They shall raise their voices in every assembly, and adorn and revive every gathering. They shall speak in every tongue, and interpret every hidden meaning. They shall reveal the mysteries of the Kingdom, and manifest unto everyone the signs of God. They shall burn brightly even as a candle in the heart of every assembly, and beam forth as a star upon every horizon. The gentle breezes wafted from the garden of their hearts shall perfume and revive the souls of men, and the revelations of their minds, even as showers, will reinvigorate the peoples and nations of the world."  AB01587

This is the primary consideration. If a person be unlettered, and yet clothed with divine excellence, and alive in the breaths of the Spirit, that individual will contribute to the welfare of society, and his inability to read and write will do him no harm. And if a person be versed in the arts and every branch of knowledge, and not live a religious life, and not take on the characteristics of God, and not be directed by a pure intent, and be engrossed in the life of the flesh -- then he is harm personified, and nothing will come of all his learning and intellectual accomplishments but scandal and torment. If, however, an individual hath spiritual characteristics, and virtues that shine out, and his purpose in life be spiritual and his inclinations be directed toward God, and he also study other branches of knowledge -- then we have light upon light: his outer being luminous, his private character radiant, his heart sound, his thought elevated, his understanding swift, his rank noble.   AB00236

Every servant during these days must renounce three things in order to attain three things. The three things that must be renounced are covetousness, idle fancy, and selfish desire, and the three things to be attained are recognition, acknowledgement, and certitude. BH01900

By what means can man acquire these things? How shall he obtain these merciful gifts and powers? First, through the knowledge of God. Second, through the love of God. Third, through faith. Fourth, through philanthropic deeds. Fifth, through self-sacrifice. Sixth, through severance from this world. Seventh, through sanctity and holiness.  ABU0112

Adorn your temples with the ornament of trustworthiness and courtesy, and your heads with the crown of truthfulness and wisdom.  BH09100

essential spiritual principles which are the basis for human prosperity, praiseworthy morals and the acquisition of the virtues and perfections of man  ABU3016

O peoples, do not spill blood and do not seize the goods of others. By my life, the sword of good character and kindness is sharper than a sword of iron.  BH09726

The best man is that person who cheers and gladdens the broken-hearted ones and the worst man is that soul who causes suffering and pain to one's heart.   ABU3383



To live the life.   ABU1013

seek the path of the Kingdom   ABU2870

Finally, you must become distinguished for heavenly illumination and acquiring the bestowals of God. I desire this distinction for you. This must be the point of distinction among you.   ABU2112

When the people live in the realm of light, then their hearts will be illumined; then their spirits will be rejoiced with the divine Glad-Tidings, then their minds will become the receptacles of the Holy Spirit; then they shall be regenerated; then they shall enter in the Kingdom of Abha.   ABU2658


Some were awakened by this effulgence, raising their heads from the pillow of sleep. These souls spread throughout all regions, busying themselves with wandering through gardens and meadows, beholding the beauty of the Sun, acquiring boundless lights, and attaining divine bounties. They opened their eyes, unstopped their ears, illumined their faces, learned new ways, accomplished deeds, sacrificed their souls, were moved to enthusiasm, created a tumult, became illumined, turned merciful, attained spiritual fragrance, received divine radiance, entered beneath the shadow of His countenance, and reached the eternal life of God - this is of God's grace; He giveth it to whom He will.  AB04816

Unless he turns to God and offers prayers to the Kingdom of God, unless he strives in God's path and renders service to the Truth, unless he attains a pure heart and seeing eyes and hearing ears and a spirit rejoicing in the divine glad-tidings. This yields results and bears fruit. Otherwise man attains nothing from life.  AB06282

When Moses cleansed the Man of the divine Spirit, Who was deposited in human form, from the sandals of incidental doubts, and revealed the Hand of divine Power from the Bosom of Grandeur and the Mantle of Grace, He entered the holy, goodly, blessed Valley of the Heart, which is the seat of the Throne of the Divine Manifestation and the Chair of holy lordly utterance. And when He reached that Mount of Sinai which stretched forth from the right side of the Spot of Light, He inhaled the sweet fragrance of the Spirit from the everlasting Orient, and perceived the lights of the Ancient Being from all directions without direction.  BH00115


Be not the slave of your moods, but their master.  ABU3027

Our actions reveal what we are, no matter what the tongue speaks.   ABU3601

"Now that you have shown me the way, I wish to walk in this heavenly path."  ABU2917

Enter into the Cause of Baha'u'llah and act in accordance with His counsels.  ABU3714

the friends are day and night engaged in the remembrance of the All-Merciful   AB02567

acquire fresh spirituality each morn and exhibit divine qualities each day  AB07004

Hold fast unto wisdom and turn your attention to the refinement of the souls of men.  BH11756

Until the disciples of Christ renounced themselves they did not resuscitate the world.   ABU2707

Tell them that Love is the one great thing. - It is life - the only life of the spirit.   ABU2655

We beseech God to assist His loved ones to acquire eternal ranks in this transient realm.   BH02547

Let your eye be chaste, your hand faithful, your tongue truthful and your heart enlightened.  BH00223

Today, it must manifest harvests and fruits. In short, there must be benefits in our endeavors.   ABU2589

Strive in the world of contingent being to make thy nest and home in the realm of placelessness.   AB06949

The spiritual life of man is important. The everlasting life of man is of the utmost importance.   ABU0589

What is more important is spiritual health which gives eternal pleasure and has everlasting effect.  ABU3003

Ascend to the atmosphere of the spirit, that station from which the hands of the ungodly are cut off   BH07021

A soul grows by the exercise of human virtues and the observance of human morals and by divine favor.  ABU2806

Adorn thyself with the characteristics of the spiritual ones and acquire the attributes of the cherubim  AB10619

The body of man is created for this world, but his heart is made for the habitation of the Holy Spirit   ABU3244

These human perfections and merciful bounties are that peace which was promised and spoken of by Christ.  AB01439

holy souls forgot this world and saw themselves in the Abha Kingdom, and conducted themselves accordingly  AB04292

Having attached thyself to the Truth, commit all matters unto Him. He is the Trustworthy, the Compassionate.  BH06479

The friends must shine forth like light that perchance the darkness may be dispelled and return to nothingness.  BH01916

that dying which continues on throughout life, giving life to other souls, is the station of 'living martyrdom'.   ABU2423

This period is a blessed period; endeavor that thou mayest live according to the requirements of this Glorious Age  AB02874

Moral life consists in the government of one's self. Immortality is government of a human soul by the Divine Will.   ABU3529

To offer sufficient thanksgiving, it is necessary to live (according to) in accordance with the heavenly teachings.  AB12531

pass beyond self and desire, close your eyes to ephemeral delights...Let each become a pure spirit and embodied love   AB03812

if thou seekest an illumined countenance in the gathering of horizons, seek perfect bounty from the Supreme Concourse   AB06813

If he were not present, this abundant grace would have been difficult, but praise be to God it has now become possible   AB03099

"Whenever thou dost embody in thy life all the Teachings of the Blessed Perfection, thou wilt be a perfect human being."  ABU1700

God willing, mayest thou be ever enkindled with the fire of the love of God and illumined by the lights of His countenance.  BH08107

The lower appetites of nature are like kings over men, one must defeat their forces, otherwise he will be defeated by them.  ABU1718

That which is needed today are deeds that draw the servants near, and virtues that cause love among the peoples of all lands  BH01882

the ultimate desire of the soul of the wise one is to shine forth in the Abha Kingdom and attain eternal victory and triumph  AB08729

Let the Baha'i world become the expression of one single individual seeking to live the life of holiness and sanctification.   ABU0603

Clothe your bodies with the robes of virtues. Characterize yourselves with the characteristics of the people of divine morality.  ABU2398

Undoubtedly, when a soul engages in commemoration of the True One, he will naturally feel the rest of soul and tranquility of heart.  AB02013

We must strive with heart and soul to drink full cups of this divine wine and engage in the words, deeds and actions of the righteous.  AB01083


Each dawn they have seeing eyes and hearing ears, are full of yearning and self-sacrificing, are radiant and aware, and full of vigilance  AB01349

Blessed are those souls who in this Day have not been content with mere words, but have arisen to do that which beseemeth the days of God.   BH02991

The man of insight suffers no loss in any matter - whatever occurs is evidence of the greatness of his station and the purity of his nature.  BH02157

each one of us must become the essence of sanctity and like unto a bright candle we may illumine the world of humanity.   AB01654

Strive within yourselves that the signs of God may be made manifest in the kingdom such that the servants may find from you the fragrance of God   BH01948

You have ever been and will continue to be, God willing, abiding and at rest beneath the shade of divine favors and the clouds of heavenly bounty.  BH09996

O people! Ye are, of your own selves, the angels of victory. If ye assist God, ye shall indeed be assisted. Imagine not that which ye cannot understand.  BB00044

The souls that are firm, steadfast, established and assured must become illumined by the lights of the Sun of divine utterance and give light to the world.   BH02770

Every deed performed for God's sake shall be accepted. Work in the new land accordeth with wisdom, and the tongue of consultation hath confirmed it.  BH11523

Every verse which this Pen hath revealed is a bright and shining portal that discloseth the glories of a saintly and pious life, of pure and stainless deeds.  BH00238

Well is it with the handmaidens who have in this day drunk deep from the sealed wine of unity and have fixed their gaze upon the horizon of the Peerless Lord.  BH04629

Show love and kindness to all, become heavenly and radiant beings, befitting of the divine Kingdom, worthy of reaping your rewards from the tree of existence.  AB04163

"if a person in their life becomes occupied with and achieves good deeds and praiseworthy character, their mention is adorned with the ornament of perpetuity"   BH02140

The body without spirit is dead, and the heart without the remembrance of God is withered. Therefore commune ye with the Friend and shun the enemy.  BH01509

May the friends shine like the full moon and the loved ones gleam like the stars of heaven. May each become the ornament of the gathering and a bright candle.   AB11733

Man must so adorn himself with good attributes, attractions and divine characteristics that he may become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity  ABU2851

that they may arise in such wise to live by the divine teachings and exhortations of Baha'u'llah as to sparkle like the morning star from the horizon of holiness  AB10298

In brief, in this day the loved ones of God must appear among men in such wise that through their deeds they may guide all to the good-pleasure of the Lord of Glory  BH01931

Act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. Do not only read His teachings but put into practice in your lives the Hidden Words and the other holy writings.   ABU0799

The purpose is that he may enter the Holy Land in a spirit of joy and fragrance. God willing, he may become so stirred by the divine breaths that he will become eloquent  AB03979

You are candles lit by the hand of divine bounty - seek not extinction nor grow cold. You are saplings in the garden of grace - desire not wilting nor ask for leaflessness.  AB02260

God willing, may you close your eyes to both worlds, become entirely captivated by the Peerless Beloved and enamored with the beauty and perfection of the matchless Beloved.  AB11637

The earth is my couch and heaven my canopy, in following His good-pleasure and in love for His loved ones. This is the path of the righteous and this is the way of the free.  AB02541

Say unto him: Gird up thy loins and strengthen thine arms to serve those who call upon God in the morn of Identity and remember Him in the eventide in the Temple of Eternity.   BH01355

Therefore must that sapling of the garden of love grow through the living waters of the utterance of the Desired One of the worlds, and attain at all times unto choice fruits.   BH04586

After me, you organise meetings, speak in the gatherings, be always full of joy and beatitude; - so that day unto day you may become more spiritual, more radiant, more heavenly.  ABU2623

May each become a lamp kindling the night and consuming veils. I hope that the friends of God may derive light from the rays of the Sun of Truth and become mirrors of mysteries.  AB04682

may he be assisted that from beginning to end his movements and stillness, his standing and sitting, his sleep and wakefulness may all occur for the Cause of God and for His sake   BH03524

Blessed is he who hath drunk the Salsabil from the hand of his gracious Lord and followed Him upon this path which hath appeared in truth from God, the Lord of the seen and unseen.  BH02364

"they have fixed their gaze on the horizon of eternity and have become the dawning places of eternal love and faithfulness. They verily shall become imperishable, immortal and divine."  AB01304

You see them bowing, prostrating, submissive and humble at the gate of Your oneness in meekness and lowliness, standing against those who neglect Your remembrance in pride and arrogance  AB00934

Be thou enkindled with the heat of the love of God, then light the lamp of the hearts of others through the sovereignty of the Names on this Day which God hath made the Sun of all days.   BH05530

In the assembly of those souls who are spiritually enkindled, be even as an incandescent candle and in the congregation of the lovers of the Lordly Reality burn like a spark of knowledge.  AB05837

This is the time for flames and eruption, the time for burning and passion. Soon you will observe the worlds of the seen and unseen transformed into the Abha Paradise and Supreme Heaven.   AB02728

"Ye must live and move according to the divine commands and behests, be united in loving with ecstasy and joy; do not take any rest but engage continually in the service of the Cause of God."  AB04003

These are God's loved ones on earth and His trustees in all lands. By the light of their countenance are illumined worlds which none hath discovered save God, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH01869

We counsel them to manifest supreme steadfastness...guide them to the momentous News...We beseech God to assist His loved ones that they may remind the people through their deeds and character.   BH00573

O ye friends of God! Arise from the corporeal beds (bodies) and ask for the divine favors, so that ye become revived by the Holy Spirit through the breath which the Spirit breathes into the souls.  AB06457

This is a servant who has turned with his whole being to Thy glorious Kingdom, who has detached himself from all else but Thee, who has been set ablaze by the fire kindled in the Tree of Thy mercy   AB01539

Kindle thou the lamp of His love within the lantern of thy heart, that both thy outer and inner being may be illumined thereby, and that through it the God-fearing servants of God may be enlightened  BH04942

Only by the sincere actions and praiseworthy attributes of the people of God, only by the character and behaviour of the sincere servants of the Abha Beauty, can the victory of this Cause be assured.   AB01013

Thus may they be souls of the kingdom, heavenly, lordly, free from attachment to this world, sanctified above all the vices of human nature, and qualified to acquire beauties from the perfections of God.  ABU2305

You must live in accordance with the teachings of Baha'o'llah. Be loving to all mankind. Consort with all religions in amity and fragrance. You must be the cause of the education of the world of humanity.  ABU1152

Act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. All His Books will be translated. Now is the time for you to live in accordance with His words. Let your deeds be the real translation of their meaning.   ABU0689

Infinite grace has become the cause of your awakening and awareness, for all creatures are occupied with play and amusement and desire and passion, while you are familiar with the mention of that Kind Beloved  AB01327

As to the promulgation of Truth, verily, it is divine and heavenly character, action in accordance with the Divine and Merciful instructions, and the propagation among men of lordly behests and exhortations.   ABU3341

Today is the springtime of goodly deeds and praiseworthy qualities. Blessed is the soul that hath attained unto them. Fix thy gaze upon truth, speak forth for the sake of truth, and turn thyself toward truth.   BH07978

What endures is the deed performed by the loved ones of God purely for His sake. Therefore in these spiritual days the friends must not deprive themselves of the lights of the countenance of their Eternal One.  BH02519

We beseech God that His confirmation may assist and His grace may accompany you, that in these fleeting days you may attain unto everlasting stations and be occupied with His remembrance in the nights and days.   BH09043

Today is the time for igniting and enkindling, not burning and melting away. The people of the world must be set ablaze with the kindled fire of God and occupied with the stations and conditions of divine love.   AB12174

Spend not your time in admonishing the negligent or counselling them who vacillate, nor waste your days in countering the vain imaginings of the irresolute, for the days of your lives are infinitely more precious.  AB01345

Rend asunder the veils of fancy, then emerge from behind the veil with manifest sovereignty. And if thou art powerless to do this by thyself, then seek help through My Name, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Omnipotent   BH01975

The people of Baha have passed beyond the gulf of names and set their course toward the ocean of inner meanings. They have placed the whole world beneath their feet and taken the final step to the Most Exalted Station.  BH00078

Therefore the branches of the Blessed Tree must, God willing, take a step in the divine paradise and become green and verdant in the garden of eternity, adorned with the fruits of rapture, attraction and enkindlement.   AB03913

O loved ones of the All-Merciful! Soar in the atmosphere of the love of God. Beware lest anything deter you. Cast away that with which the people are occupied and take what ye have been commanded by an All-Wise Ordainer.  BH00559

Verily, the believers, when it is the pleasure of thy Lord to raise up or cast down, find therein no abasement at all, for abasement lieth only in that which is contrary to thy Lord's good-pleasure, if they but knew.  BB00003

The highest expression of the life of man on this planet in this age and many ages to come is Celestial: that is, to live and act in accord with the teachings of Baha'u'llah and to be steadfast in the love of Abdul Baha.   AB04610

For the affairs of those beloved ones have been and are for the sake of God - manifestation and emergence from God, orientation toward God, and action for God. In this case, deeds are one litany and conditions are perpetual.  BH07479

The hosts of the True One, exalted be His glory, have ever been and shall ever be goodly deeds and conduct, and the commander of these hosts hath been the fear of God. Blessed are they that act! Blessed are they that attain!   BH00551

The purpose is that thou shouldst act according to divine counsels and exhortations. Then observe how paradise within paradise it is, with spirit and sweet fragrance. And this is from the bounty of thy Lord, the All-Merciful.   AB03433

"the blame of no blamer shall turn them from God." Rather, they consider reproach in the path of the King of Oneness as care, and censure as safety. They are lost in the lane of the Beloved and bewildered by that musky tress.   AB01689

Let us have the life of the spirit, a life which is a collective center of the beneficial forces, a life of sympathy, of practical co-operation, of celestial brotherhood. Let our life be an emanation of the kingdom of Christ.   ABU0722

May they strive to spread the divine fragrances and endeavor to promote the clear verses. May they become divine farmers sowing the seeds of truth. May they adorn the gathering of sanctification and light the lamp of detachment.  AB01802

Close not with hands of tyranny and rejection the gate of My mercy which I have opened unto the peoples of the heavens and the earth, and cut not down through oppression and transgression the elevated Tree of My loving-kindness.   BH00249

Look not upon those who walk upon the earth, for the living are they who obey God and work for His sake. In the sight of God, whosoever merely eateth and drinketh is not counted among the living - this is but the way of animals.  BB00004

Be thou steadfast among the people in thy love for God such that they may witness from thy countenance the radiance of the All-Merciful, from thy heart the stirring of the Divine Lote-Tree, and from thy spirit eagerness and attraction  BH08035

This one lost in the wilderness of the love of God awaits the appearance of the effects of these praises and commendations, and anticipates the rising and shining of lights acquired from the manifestation of Sinai and the gleam of light.  AB04406

You can engage in work of an uplifting kind- the kind that will tend to lift one out of the sense world into the world of morality not the kind that is degrading. Strive for that which prompts the personification of dignity and virtues.   ABU2483

Be patient in the Truth, for God doth ever watch over the patient ones. Trust in God and turn not unto Satan. Slay him with the sword of the Gate and aid His Cause after the revelation of the Book in thy land to the extent thou art able.   BB00158

Fix your gaze upon and hold fast to this blessed word which is like a lamp in the darkness of the world. He saith: "Do good even as God hath dealt goodly with thee." Blessed is the state of one who hath acted according to this blessed word.  BH09335

Any moment that a person engages in the remembrance of God, or undertakes service to the Word of God, or arises to spread the lights of guidance, it is counted as life - otherwise it is just wasting time and without result at the end of life.   AB01803

We must follow the path of sanctification and speak words of detachment and pursue the way of ultimate purity. Through our words, deeds and conduct we must become signs of the gift of the Lord and cause every aware soul to awaken and remember.   AB00531

These are they who swim in the depths of the remembrance of God, who remember God with their hearts, who worship God with their limbs, and who unite with God in their inmost hearts, such that the gems of divine unity are manifest in their deeds.   BH01853

O friends! Today ye must be engaged in the remembrance of the Beloved of the worlds with the utmost joy and fragrance... The eye was created for this day, and the ear came into being to hearken unto the call of the Dawning-Place of divine favor.  BH03142

They must conduct themselves in such a way that they become distinguished among people and pointed to with fingers. All must testify to their virtuous qualities and noble character, that this eminent person is truly in the utmost sanctity and purity.   AB01277

"Therefore, we must endeavor night and day to purify the hearts from every dross, sanctify the souls from every restriction and become free from the discords of the human world. Then the divine bestowals will become evident in their fullness and glory."  ABU0259

Compare, also, the holy, spiritual man who gives up his whole life for the improvement and uplifting of humanity, and the one who lives only to destroy and degrade mankind. E.g., compare Peter whose whole heart was full of the love of God, and Caiaphas.   ABU2170

Illumine your hearts with the lights of sanctity and make your souls a rose garden through benevolent intentions. Pure intention makes the earthly body soar with the celestial spheres and draws it from the depths of ignorance to the heights of knowledge.  AB00033

Soar upon the wings of joy in the atmosphere of the love of God. Regard the people of the world as dead and seek the fellowship of the living. Whoso hath not breathed the sweet fragrance of the Beloved at this dawntide is indeed accounted among the dead.   BH01353

We love to see all thy pursuits unified into a single pursuit, and all thy deeds and purposes transformed into a single remembrance - the remembrance of this wondrous Remembrance - that We may behold thee extinct to thy will and abiding by the will of God   BH04082

A room must be lighted up, and a heart must of a necessity be spiritual. A person whose tree of life produces such fruits is a Baha'i: otherwise he is of the earth earthly, self-occupied and following the dictates of his own desire and is 'man' only by name.  ABU2179

I beseech Thee by Thy Hidden Name which hath appeared among Thy creatures and called all to Thy horizon, that Thou make me one of the letters of Thy Book, that I may be rendered immortal through Thy grace and living and enduring through Thy bounty and favor.   BH05224

Rise from the dawning-place of existence with a luminous countenance, and shine forth from the horizon of contingent being with a light like unto the rays of the stars. Sparkle like the morning star and, like the morning breeze, waft over the gardens of hearts.   AB06238

so that in the gathering of the world and the assemblage of peoples you may speak forth in praise of the Truth and be engaged in remembrance of the Ancient Beauty, become familiar with the holy fragrances and occupied with reading the verses of loving communion.  AB03626

Now is the time for thee to become the source of mighty deeds and the fountain-head of service, that thy countenance may be illumined in the Abha Kingdom, thy character become the envy of garden and meadow, and thy fragrance surpass the musk of Cathay and Khutan.  AB05085

Take wing and become light as a spirit, unburdened by all else but God, that thou mayest be enabled to traverse the realms of eternity and its holy gardens, until thou becomest aware of mysteries that none hath known and of which not a letter hath been discovered.   BH01077

ye will discover yourselves to be kings in the dominions of the Kingdom, and attired with the glorious crowns of the invisible Realm, and become the marshals of the army of peace, and princes of the forces of light, and stars shining from the horizon of perfection   AB01151

Tell them to read carefully the Persian and Arabic 'Hidden Words' and to live and behave according to their contents. If a person lives for one day according to those divine exhortation and teachings he will be assisted to move the visible and the invisible world.   ABU0935

If one of the trees of the garden is not well-rooted in the soil, there will be no doubt that its progress will be stopped and wither away. It will then be only good for fuel. But if its roots are impelled downward into the rich soil, it will yield luscious fruits.   ABU0684

Today, humanity is bowed down with trouble, sorrow and grief, no one escapes; the world is wet with tears; but, thank God, the remedy is at our doors. Let us turn our hearts away from the world of matter and live in the spiritual world! It alone can give us freedom!   ABU0386

For today it behooveth every soul who is unable to comprehend the divine mysteries to seek from the fountain of divine knowledge and the river of celestial wisdom, that perchance they may drink a drop thereof and find repose upon the couch of certitude and tranquility.  BH00006

'Abdu'l-Baha's utmost desire is that before His return to the Abha Kingdom, He may witness souls who are the working army of the Abha Kingdom and who have attained such ancient grace that they are the kindled lamps of the love of God, shedding light upon all the world.  AB00832

A picture, though it should be of the utmost beauty, still because it is spiritless it is not alive. When it has no soul or spirit it is of no use. But even the ugliest Senegambian endowed with the spirit or life is much better than that beautiful picture, for he is alive.  ABU1517

"Man's flight is to be illumined with the light of reality. Man's flight is to be detached from all save God. Man's flight is to have attention turned to the Abha Kingdom. Man's flight is to fully carry out the teachings of Baha'u'llah."  ABU0518

Blessed is the soul that hath been severed for My love, that hath arisen to aid Me, that hath appeared through My detachment and soared in My atmosphere. Such a one is of the people of Baha and the possessor of names. The angels of Paradise circle round him every morn and eve.   BH04558

Now, you must put forth the same efforts and progress in the spiritual nature, just as you have advanced (materially); that you may attract ideal power; that you may find that radiance of heaven; that you may attain to merciful morals; that you may attain to the Life Everlasting.  ABU0757

All must walk among the righteous and the wicked with rectitude, steadfastness, dignity and composure, that the number of the righteous may increase and the wicked be called to the Chosen One. A goodly deed is in its essence a promoter of the Cause and a guide to the path of truth.   BH02077

my hope is that the luminosity of divine teachings and heavenly counsels will so appear among the friends that faces will become radiant, souls will receive glad-tidings, hearts will be illumined, and from their limbs and members the signs of faith and certitude will become manifest.  AB03514

Believers must show their belief in their daily lives, so that the world might see the light shining in their faces. Let the Light of Truth and Honesty shine from them, so that all who behold them may know that their word in business or pleasure will be a word to trust and depend upon.   ABU1113

It is incumbent upon you to soar up with wings of joy and happiness unto the apex of exultation and gladness; for He hath assigned unto you the greatest guidance in the Day of Resurrection, and hath crowned you with the diadem of glory and divine honor among the women of the whole world   AB02831

O my daughter, live the life of a Baha'i and you will always have to be occupied with great thoughts; all that which is trivial, half-hearted, will have no more hold over you, your soul will feel more and more liberated and released from the fetters of the narrow, trivial, mean and empty   ABU3103

Therefore the world of humanity should live as one, according to the law of love, for the honor of man is in the attainment of those virtues which constitute the image and likeness of God. This is the eternal honor of man. This is the sublimity of man. This is the life everlasting of man.   ABU0657


Praise be to God, thou hast a heart illumined by the light of the love of God and a nature like the flowers of the rose garden and meadow, fragrant. At the Divine Threshold thou art an accepted servant, and in the Supreme Concourse and the Abha Kingdom thou art mentioned, praised and renowned.  AB04672

Today the water of life hath appeared and the true spirit existeth. Strive that ye may receive your portion from this infinite bounty and attain unto the grace of the Lord of Names. This blessed Day hath had no peer or likeness, nor shall it ever have one. That which is lost cannot be regained.  BH00152

Those meanings are devotion and supplication, detachment and attraction, ecstasy and joy, truthfulness and fairness, trustworthiness and religion, enthusiasm and rapture, yearning and delight, heavenly exaltation and eternal glory, everlasting life, and human virtues through the merciful spirit.  AB04127

Look, O my God, upon the hearts which Thou hast made the thrones of Thy sovereignty and the dawning-places for the manifestation of the lights of Thy love. Sprinkle upon them, O my God, from the ocean of Thy generosity that which shall make them the manifestations of this Name amongst Thy servants.  BH01151

Pray that our Happiness be divine in origin and not parasitical; our progress be ideal and not wholly material; the sphere of our intellect be vast, our cognate faculties be marvelous, our severance he perfect and our sanctity and holiness be heavenly. These are the perfections of the human world.   ABU2011

Live ye in such a manner that others may take your life as an example, and may say to each other: "Look! How they live like unto two doves in one nest with perfect love, affinity and harmony. It is as though God had kneaded from eternity the very essence of their beings for the love of each other."   ABU0364

"Bear in your heart great love to all races on earth, to the end that unity may be established between them. Take an interest in everyone and find out how you can help them, so that all may see that your love is truly universal. Do the Will of God, do not only speak about it; the elect of God do this."  ABU1896

if we move and behave according to the divine counsels and admonitions, and our deeds and words conform to the commands of the Chosen Beauty, this dark world will become a luminous realm and this abode of nothingness will become a radiant world of existence and a place where divine signs are made manifest   AB04249

Therefore, O ye two distinguished ones, hasten to good deeds, choose everlasting righteous works, and guide the people to the path of salvation with clear proofs, conclusive arguments, and brilliant evidences. Verily, those who say "Our Lord is God" and then remain steadfast, the angels descend upon them.   AB00365

What should be these great results? The ignition in America of the fire of the love of God and the encompassing of all the souls by the heavenly radiance. May the hearts become attracted. May the spirits be exhilarated. May the eyes become radiant. May the ears hearken to the melody of the kingdom of Abha.   ABU1731

Would that I had attained unto it! This servitude--its essence is servitude itself. The way is barred and the search rejected. This is complete servitude which hath shone forth from the Dayspring of the mouth of the Will of the King of Oneness. Whosoever attaineth unto this station hath attained unto all good.  BH00184

Through the appearance of the Blessed Perfection the theories are abrogated and the facts established. The time of superficiality is gone by and the cycle of reality has appeared. One must become the incarnation of servitude, the personification of love, the embodiment of spirituality, and the mirror of mercy.   AB03588

"This is true progress and this is what beseems the reality of man. My hope is that ye may become true Baha'is and ye may walk in the path of God with the utmost sincerity so that from your behaviour, your character and your aims, sweet fragrances may be inhaled that are redolent with the love of the Abha Beauty"  AB04126

Well is it with them, and blessed are they! We have made mention of all in various Tablets through verses that have enraptured the Concourse on High and the denizens of Paradise. We beseech God to aid them all, both men and women, in that which He loveth and is pleased with. In all matters let them act with justice.  BH04702

When you are plowing the ground or sowing the seeds or reaping the harvest let all your thoughts and subconscious thinking be of God. Your hands and feet will be working but your heart must be attached to the Almighty. The body of man is created for this world but his heart is made for the habitation of the Holy Spirit.   ABU2111

"If one is turned toward heavenly things he will become like a rock. But if his heart be attached to anything in this world it will become subject to change. Attachments are like ropes which drag us to the earth when we try to fly. To be detached is to be free, is to be flying in a new ether, is to be light, is to be joyous"  ABU1652

Today the mightiest sword in the world hath been and remaineth the fear of God. O My loved ones! Aid your Lord, the All-Merciful, through deeds and goodly character. Blessed is the soul that retireth to its bed at night with a heart purified from rancor and hatred, and that seeketh from God the good of all who dwell on earth.  BH00470

O Friend of Love! Listen to the words of the spirit with the ear of spirit, that you may sacrifice soul and heart in the path of the Beloved and cast your head in the lane of the Friend, that headless you may lift up your head, and heartless you may cry out, and without wine you may surge, and without tongue you may attain the angel  BH02550

Be thankful unto God that Baha'u'llah has given us a firm and solid foundation. He left no place for sadness in hearts, and the writings of His sacred pen contain consolation for the whole world. He had the words of truth, and anything that is contrary to His teaching is false. The chief aim of all His work was to do away with division.  ABU0503

God willing, ye must be set ablaze with the fire of the Divine Word in such wise that the veils of the vain imaginings of the people of the Furqan and the people of the Bayan may all be consumed and they may become illumined with the lights of recognition. May they abandon the sayings of the past and hold fast unto that which is manifest.   BH02142

Therefore, in gratitude for these divine gifts and spiritual bounties, strive to be known among people for qualities, virtues and characteristics worthy of this most exalted station. Like a candle in every gathering, be illumined with divine remembrance. Like a star from every horizon, adorn the rose garden and meadow with infinite lights.  AB01865

O divine friends! The magnet that attracts heavenly joy is the good-pleasure of the Divine Beauty. As much as you can, seek His good-pleasure and arise in faithfulness. Ask God that divine attributes may become manifest in the human world, so that all hopes may be fulfilled and ultimate nearness to the Threshold of Oneness may be attained.   AB01434

Movement requires a mover. Resignation and stillness give rise to sorrow and grief, to dejection and despondency. O handmaiden of Baha, become the cause of the fervour of the hearts and the rapture and attraction of the souls, that all may be set ablaze by the kindled fire of God, become joyous and exultant, and raise the sound of melody and song.   AB02164

If we confess verbally that the principles of Baha'u'llah are the cause of eternal salvation and the means of nearness unto the throne of God and yet do not live according to their contents we would not be Baha'is. Therefore day and night we must pray for each other - so that we may be assisted to express in our lives the universal spirit of Baha'u'llah.   ABU2505

O people, adorn yourselves with the attributes of God, then beautify your beings and your temples with the raiment of knowledge and refinement, and with forgiveness and justice. Be ye united in the Cause of God and His ways, and when anyone is given aught, whether in matters of religion or of the world, be ye content therewith and be not of them who transgress and envy.   BH00948

But they must arise to perform good deeds according to the divine teachings, so that they may guide people through their actions and conduct, such that all creation will deduce from their manner and deeds that this person is a Baha'i, for the appearance of such good deeds and actions from a non-Baha'i is impossible. This is the foundation of God's religion and God's law.  AB01903

Become illumined candles in every gathering and flowers of the meadow in every field and plain. Become trees of oneness and fruits of detachment. Become verses of sanctity and clear proofs of the Book of Renewal. Become tablets of the Kingdom and scriptures and epistles of the Realm of Might. Become psalms of the Concourse on High and the inscribed Book of the Abha Kingdom.  AB02239

Your faces are the gates of God's bounty, and whoso entereth not the garden of submission and resignation hath departed from the stronghold of God, and whoso departeth from God's stronghold is blind to the vision of God's light. Say: Fear ye God and spend upon your poor what God hath ordained for you, then seek God's help that He may send down upon you the rains of His mercy.   BH00788

O my God! Make us of those in whose hearts the trees of longing for Thee have flourished in the gardens of their breasts, and the ardor of Thy love hath seized the essence of their hearts. They take refuge in the nests of contemplation, and graze in the meadows of nearness and revelation. From the pools of love they drink with the cup of grace, and they frequent the springs of pure friendship.  BB00040

The friends must at all times be counseled and reminded, that they may all conduct themselves in such wise that others may inhale from them the sweet fragrances of sanctity, holiness and pure servitude unto God, the True One. O friends! Aid ye the Cause of God through the hosts of goodly spiritual qualities, the ranks of holy deeds, and the banners of humility, submissiveness and supplication.   BH00200

His life was an example of honesty and activity. He was a flame of the love of God and a true lover of humanity. By profession he was a coppersmith and often worked till midnight in order to make enough money to support the poor believers. While he worked he chanted the poems and Tablets of the Blessed Perfection and wept in such a heart-moving manner that all those who heard him were stirred.   ABU0136

Therefore I hope that through the sacrifice and self-surrender of the friends that country will become illumined and that clime will become the blowing place of life-giving breezes, so that souls may be trained who are worthy of the cycle and dispensation of His Divine Unity, who will manifest divine characteristics until the radiance of that Celestial Beloved will illumine the contingent world   AB02593

Exert yourselves that ye may water their field of divine guidance with the soft-flowing waters of truth and make their trees of bounties that they have planted fresh and green with the reviving winds of steadfastness, so that the delicate air and charming panorama of the Abha Kingdom transform your hearts into heavenly gardens and the place where the Revelation of the All-Merciful is made manifest.   AB01167

Bear witness now that you have believed in God and His signs, and have followed His loved ones, and have loved those who have believed in Him, and thus have you been numbered among them that are assured. God will exalt the stations of those who have feared Him and been patient for His sake, and will remember them even as We have remembered you at this time with most excellent and beauteous remembrance.  BH11918

For example, a person thrown headlong in the lowest degree of immorality rises to the glorious height of sanctity and purity; the bloodthirsty tyrant becomes a just and upright man; the coward is changed into a brave soul; the traitor becomes most trustworthy and the heedless mindful. Whereas formerly he was afflicted with all the debasing and social sins he becomes cleansed through the purifying water of the Holy Spirit.  ABU1187

But if he lives in accordance with the good-pleasure of the Lord he will be favored at the court of the Almighty. He will be drawn nigh unto the throne of Majesty. He will be respected by all mankind and loved and honored by the believers. This fortune bestows eternal happiness. The tree of this fortune is ever green. The autumnal wind does not sear its leaves nor does the frost of winter rob it of its perennial freshness.  ABU0472

When thy feet are made firm upon this path, thou shalt see the bounty of God encompassing thee even as the rays from the Sun of Truth encompass the moons - a star rising from the dawning-place of lights, flowing forth in the ocean of mysteries, and sailing upon the ark of salvation, until thou shalt find thyself a trusted keeper of the mysteries of the Kingdom and a mirror reflecting the effulgence of the realm of divinity.  AB08377

In truth, these tongues which in these days are engaged in the praise of God have appeared from the Kingdom of utterance and bear no resemblance whatsoever to the tongues of those servants who belong to the physical realm. In one station they are without peer or likeness, without equal or comparison. Every praise that is manifested today from any praising soul is as a spirit for the awakening of others, whether it be in verse or prose.  BH00045

Self-discipline is the first aim of one who desires to live a true life. But as to this do not misunderstand me; I do not mean the discipline, widely practised in old times and even by many at the present day, which consists in mortifying the flesh and deadening the emotions. Enjoy pleasant things, look with pleasure upon beautiful things, but without clinging to them, without longing to possess them, without holding them dearer than God.  ABU0361

The loved ones of God must at all times occupy themselves with that which conduceth to the refinement of souls, the elevation of beings, and the exaltation of the Word of God. Its manifestation dependeth upon the consultation of the trustees of the House of Justice. Blessed are they who have arisen to serve the world. The effects of such souls shall lead the world from hardship to comfort, from poverty to wealth, and from abasement to glory.  BH00767

In this court we must be humble and meek, active and progressive, wide-awake and thoughtful, true and sincere, noble and good, straightforward and zealous. This is the outcome of life! This is the result of ceaseless endeavour! This is the prize to be won! This is the illumination of the world of humanity! This is the eternal life! This is the sublimity of human nature. This is heavenly glory! This is the radiant crown of the Kingdom of Abha!   ABU2526

In this world that perisheth they should find everlasting life. In the darkness of existence they should ignite the candle of divine unity, and like a nightingale on the branches of divine unity they should chant the mysteries of divine singleness and give praise to the glorious Lord so that their end may become praiseworthy and the bounties of the All Loving Lord may embrace them, and in this physical world the most great gifts may become manifest.   AB01049

Rather, they should seek fellowship through holy fragrances and spend their time in spiritual attractions. They should be the essence of sanctity and the spirit of detachment. They should kindle the fire of the love of God and, with the flame of Sinai, burn away the veils of hearts and vision. They should sing melodies in the rose garden of divine unity and, in the paradise of sanctification, occupy themselves with praising and glorifying the Glorious Lord.  AB01914

Be generous in prosperity and grateful in adversity. Be trustworthy in all things, cheerful in countenance, a treasure to the poor and a counselor to the rich. Be answering to the call, faithful to thy promise and fair in thy judgment. Be silent in the multitude, just in thy verdict, submissive unto man. Be as a lamp in darkness, a joy to the sorrowful, a sea for the thirsty, a haven for the distressed, a helper and defender of the victim of oppression.  BH00017

Therefore, O ye friends of God! enter ye in the Rose-garden of Oneness, take ye a share from the essence of singleness and spread the Breaths of the Morn of Holiness. The Glad-tidings of the Bounty of the Blessed Perfection is descending from the Invisible Kingdom, the Sea of Providence is moving and the waves of the Mercy of the Almighty are unlimited. Endeavor as far as ye can, so that ye may immerse yourselves in this vast Ocean and soar heavenward toward this Exalted Apex.   AB00975

Wherefore, it is incumbent upon us to strive to act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. Day by day let us endeavor to become more spiritual, to become more luminous, and to serve the cause of the oneness of humanity. Let us promote equal rights amongst all men, spread far and wide the divine favors, and offer the love of God to all who dwell on earth, so that the power of the spirit may become manifest with the utmost splendor, bodies may become spiritualized, and souls may govern.  ABU0114

I am summoning you to the world of the Kingdom. I am calling you away from this world. Nothing you can ever think of here will remain. You, yourself, will pass away as the roses wither at the touch of winter's breath. I wish for you heavenly happiness. I am praying that the confirmations of God may descend upon you, that you may become His servant, that you may go forth to save mankind from the bondage of this mortal world. I wish you to escape from this hell of materialism. Be not occupied with material things. Have no anxiety about your affairs. You are under the protection of Baha'o'llah,--in His service. Live in the spiritual world as I do. Think of nothing else.   ABU0721

It is clear and evident to every fair-minded and insightful person and every knowledgeable and informed one that there has been and is no purpose except the betterment, love, harmony, kindness and unity of hearts and souls. We have ever counseled all to trustworthiness, religious devotion, truthfulness and sincerity. Some accepted, while others were prevented from the word of truth by the fire of greed, passion, avarice and transgression. Praise be to God, the deeds of every soul bear witness to it. The secrets of hearts and their hidden thoughts, as well as the treachery of eyes, are all manifest and visible. This Wronged One beseeches God, exalted be His glory, for that which leads to success and prosperity. Assuredly, whatever has appeared and will appear stems from the requirements of consummate wisdom. However, victory and triumph in all conditions belong to His assured servants, those who have no fear nor are they grieved.  BH01016

So, when one is spiritually developed, a sublimity of nature is obtained, a delicacy of vision such as could not otherwise be found.  ABU1963

Today it behooveth everyone to fix their gaze upon the horizon of the Cause and that which appeareth from His presence, and to occupy themselves with the refinement of their own souls   BH02089

Consider man as a sword: while it remains in its sheath, its quality remains hidden and concealed. Through God's grace, you must be freed from the sheath of darkness, that your quality may become manifest to all the world.  BH10950

"But as for him who feareth to stand before his Lord and restraineth his soul from its desires, verily Paradise shall be his habitation." How refined he becomes, how luminous he becomes, how merciful he becomes, how sanctified a soul he becomes.   ABU2345

And the effect and fruit is the acquisition of those perfections which adorn human reality - namely, unity and the abandonment of estrangement, and freedom from personal interests and thoughts. Until character is reformed and human virtues and excellences are made manifest, the Beloved of eternal glory will not unveil His face.  AB04515

A long time ago His Holiness Baha'o'llah wrote an epistle in which he said that man must attain to such a condition that his spirit will be soaring though he is sitting in a state of tranquility and serenity. That is the kind of sitting that is like unto walking. That is the kind of serenity that is really motion. That is the kind of tranquility that is really flying.   ABU0942

We hope that this illumined age, the world of humanity shall arrive at maturity, so that the Divine faculties will become manifest in the inner reality of human beings; that the divine perfections will become manifest in human beings; that this world of humanity may attain the highest pitch of development; and that day by day the virtues of the world of humanity will become manifest   ABU0447

We counsel thee to be trustworthy, chaste, and faithful, and to that whereby the Word of God—thy Lord and the Lord of the Most Exalted Throne—may be exalted.  BH03754

Concerning what you mentioned about the stations of the heart, it was presented. He said that whatever was mentioned before regarding these stations was specific to those days. In these days all must gaze toward the Most Exalted Horizon and witness, without veil or covering, the effulgences of the lights of the Manifestation of God's Cause.  BH00292

Though this Path is one, it differeth according to the capacities of those who seek it. As thou observest, among the people are those who recognized God merely upon hearing of His Manifestation; some upon attaining the presence of His Countenance; others believed after hearing what was revealed from the direction of the Throne and were numbered among the guided ones; some clung to proofs and arguments, tarrying upon the path and were among those who hesitated; and others traversed the way in less than the twinkling of an eye and reached the most great vista, the station whereon the Ancient Beauty was established with manifest sovereignty. Blessed is he who passeth over the path as lightning through the clouds and followeth the most great path in this mighty Announcement.  BH11628
