

War must be transformed to peace, enmity to friendship, and conflict to reconciliation   AB06837


When a thought of war enters your mind, suppress it, and plant in its stead a positive thought of peace.   ABU3219

Peace should replace strife, enmity be superseded by love, estrangement annihilated, and unity established  AB04999

these fields of war and strife may be transformed into gatherings of fellowship, meeting, love and harmony  AB05884

God does not want war. These wars are against the divine will. He desires peace and love for His servants.   ABU2581

after this terrible war, perfect harmony, unity and love may be established among all the peoples of Europe  AB06570

He abhorred the darkness of war and conflict and praised the light of amity and the spirit of joy and delight  AB05864



Now all humanity has realized that war is the destroyer of human foundations and mankind is in need of universal peace   AB01671

In these days there is great clamor for an armistice, and murmurings of peace. The powers of the world seek reconciliation  AB12306

"How barbarous it seems to send men, who do not even know each other, to the battlefield in order to shoot each other down."  ABU1806

"This day, in the world of humanity, men are all the time expending, for war is nothing but the consumption of men and of wealth."   AB02185

"At such a time when the flames of war are burning in East and West...in these days when the clouds of war have covered the horizons"  AB02645


He created man gentle, peaceful and social, without sharp claws and long canine teeth. Then man invented the sword and death-dealing instruments.  ABU2812


The ideals of Peace must be nurtured and spread among the inhabitants of the world; they must be instructed in the school of peace and evils of war.   ABU0776


The nations of the world strive to increase their armaments to such an extent that they become like serpents, rushing at one another, and much blood is shed.  BHU0024

History is a record of incessant wars. There is not a spot on the globe that has not been crimsoned with the blood of men; the whole earth is blood-drenched.   ABU1199

The colonel of the world may array the ranks of battle and seek fame and honor, but the divine commander seeks the world of God and desires the spiritual throne.  AB06061

You must sow the seed of love. They destroy, you construct. They take life, you confer life. They are thinking and waging war, you practice Peace and conciliation.  ABU0325

We cannot induce men to lay down their arms by fighting with them. War intensifies the spirit of strife. War begets war. We are peacemakers, not destroyers of peace  ABU2289

During the days of war, the black cloud of conflict made life difficult for all. Communications were cut off, paths were blocked, and means of connection were lost.  AB01917

O Lord! Blood hath been shed, the earth hath reddened, homes have been destroyed, roads have been cut off, and enmity hath appeared. None can remove these save Thee.  AB05997

Military power coerces and compels men into obedience through unnatural resort to force and violation, but mankind yield happily and willingly to the power of love.   ABU3348

The sword has been working over six thousand years and has become dull. We must look about us for another sword to take its place. The greatest sword is the tongue.   ABU2525

How they shed each other's blood and stained the earth with the blood of the helpless! The fire of war blazed so fiercely that all the Balkan nations attacked one another   AB00737

In this mortal world, the conquest of realms and dominions is achieved through bloodthirsty swords and incendiary firearms, and therefore is neither blessed nor auspicious.  AB04086

Man was created for peace and has come for reformation. For what is this contention and for whom is this war? This handful of dust was not and is not worthy of such transfers.  BH00944

Now that the flames of war have been extinguished in the West, God willing they will be completely quenched in the East as well. I hope that rest and tranquility will be achieved.   AB01056

The term religious war is a misnomer, because there can be no war where there is religion. All we have is a hollow sham, a pretense. When once we have real religion, war will cease.  ABU3418

The intensification of the fires of war in East and West has prevented the sending of letters and communications, and this cessation of news has been very difficult for the friends.  AB02466

Similarly whenever Emperor William addresses the army he calls on God to give victory to the German arms but war and bloodshed have nothing to do with the God of Mercy and Kindness.   ABU1927

We must not fear difficulties and labor. They lead us to the noblest end. We must resist the whole world, for the world wants war; unite our efforts and with divine love we will succeed.  ABU2201

And if these teachings of the Blessed Beauty are not implemented, the world is in danger. Europe has become like a powder magazine - it depends on just one spark. Great danger lies ahead.  ABU2064

Europe has become like a slaughterhouse for sheep - wherever you look you see troops upon troops slaughtered, killed and wounded, and cities overturned and people helpless and heartbroken.  AB02578

I am very unhappy to see how wicked and uncivilized human beings can be, the motive for fighting is so small and ignoble. They are fighting for the earth, which is the lowest form of matter.   ABU2610

There will be a general war between the European powers and Germany of course will take a prominent part. Baha'u'llah has predicted a war between Germany and France and this will be fulfilled!  ABU3286

But the Kingdom of God is absolutely good. It quenches all this fire; it effaces these guns and cannons; it transforms swords into olive boughs; it changes wars and battles into love and accord.  ABU1270

The world of humanity is in peril and Europe is like a barrel of gunpowder waiting for a single spark for it to explode. You must endeavor to prevent this occurrence. You must protect humanity.   ABU0994

In these years of war when all peoples and religions fell into great peril, suffered severe calamities, lives and property were destroyed, and tribulation and punishment exceeded human endurance  AB11812

This bloody war has cut off all routes and closed all doors, hence there was a shortcoming in communication. We hope that this summer this war will end and means of rest and comfort will be attained.   AB01754

"God is against war. But as many did not will the war, but were obliged to go to the battle field by force of circumstances, therefore God has mercy for they suffered much and they lost their lives."   ABU1901

Let the expanse of the world, which has become black earth and darkness from the autumn of warfare and ignorance, become green and verdant through the spiritual springtime of fellowship and love and peace.   AB05556

To teach in the universities and schools ideas concerning universal peace, so that the student may be so molded that in after years he may help carry to fruition the most useful and human issue of mankind.   ABU3349

This war will be transformed into peace...may the dark clouds of war and strife disperse...may warships be transformed into merchant vessels, may implements of war become tools of agriculture and cultivation   AB02083

For thousands of years the human race has been at war. It is enough. Now let mankind, for a time at least, consort in amity and peace. Enmity and hatred have ruled. Let the world, for a period, exercise love.  ABU0268

O Lord! The factions have penetrated deep into the fields of struggle and conflict, and this sweeping torrent and grinding war cannot be halted save through Thy mercy which embraceth all that was and shall be.   AB00145

Notwithstanding this religious kinship they have already crimsoned many battlefields with the blood of each other. Why the display of this wolf-like quality? Why the appearance of these savage and brute forces?   ABU0426

In those days when the fire of war was aflame and the homes of the world's people were burned, when earthquake struck the foundations of the world, when the earth was stained red with the blood of precious youth   AB00856

"Our aims are Universal Peace and the Oneness of the world of humanity." "By the education of the public with the sentiments of Peace. Today the full realization of Universal Peace is the panacea for every disease."  ABU1616

All people are anxious and distressed, and city dwellers have fled to mountains and villages in disarray, as they fear that ironclad warships may suddenly surge forth in tumult and utterly destroy the foundations of cities.   AB02200

This War is indeed ruinous and devastating in its effects. However, afterwards, the number of peace-loving people will grow considerably, and the commotions, uproars and the mighty tumult will precipitate [universal] peace.   ABU2714

Instead of being the cause of the honor of the world of humanity they will be the means of its debasement. Their policies shall collapse like a 'pack of cards.' Their intellectual weakness and moral imbecility will be exposed.   ABU0805

Today I read about the events in Italy and Turkey. A new war has broken out and the blood of poor humans is being shed for the basest of things. They kill each other for this black earth, even though it belongs to none of them.  ABU0478

Let peace be for the weaker nations but war is for the mighty! ... How barbarous and foolish it is to send men who know not each other at all to the battlefield and order them to shoot down each other and cut each other's throats.   ABU1388

War is a grievous calamity. It begins and ends in disaster. A mother has a beautiful boy filled with every grace and promise. He develops into manhood, goes to war, and in an instant all his possibilities and usefulness are cut off.  ABU0321

Events in the Balkans today where a great conflagration of war is furiously raging and so much blood is being shed. Virtually the whole world of humanity is mourning and lamenting because of the revival of these calamitous conditions.   ABU0336

"His contempt for war was not because he desired to protect his own self, but was due to his hatred of conflict and killing. In truth, he was unique in all human perfections and spiritual attributes. He was a well-wisher for everyone."  ABU1539

"By that unity perfect peace would reign among men. Strife and animosity are due to misunderstandings. If these misunderstandings be removed then unity can be accomplished." "...then six thousand years of strife and warfare will vanish."  ABU2293

for the last six months probably more than one million living, breathing youths have been left on the battlefields as dead corpses and soon their very names will be forgot[en]. In a few years who will care to know about them as individuals.   ABU2104

Ignorance and prejudice have encircled the nations of the earth and they are attacking each other with weapons of death instead of love... Now the nations of the world are adding daily to the means of warfare and have become military lunatics.  ABU1394

The kings and rulers, instead of expending your wealth and treasures for the betterment of countries and the comfort of the people, spend all in the destruction of humankind....These contentions and wars and bloodshed and differences must cease  BHU0015

Observe: it is the children who are orphaned and families which are destroyed. The flames of the fire of war are day by day becoming more intense. You must become the cause of quenching this fire so that the light of love may enlighten the world.  ABU0319

Trade has become entirely non-existent and all the inhabitants are enlisted as soldiers. For example there are many merchants who have suffered complete ruin and to cap their misery they are compelled to enter the army and are sent to the frontier.  AB05479

Through the concerted efforts of some wealthy individuals in America, great assemblies were established to promulgate universal peace and to abolish ruinous warfare and the needless shedding of blood. In spite of this, war was predestined to occur.  AB00344

The continuing verses mean the Great War that is to come. After this war everything will be at peace. The "great hail" means both the bombs, shells, instruments of destruction, and the calamities and hardships, which will cause people to blaspheme.   ABU0360


Now this war has left millions of children fatherless and millions of parents without sons. This war has left helpless sisters without brothers. This war has left millions of women widowed and husbandless. This war has shaken the foundation of humanity.  AB02500

In war both parties are wrong. Neither Japan nor Russia is fulfilling the Law and Will of God... War is never necessary. It is always an expense and a calamity, never a great help. God utilizes even the wars of nations to carry out His ultimate purposes.  ABU1142

When we review history from the beginning down to the present day, we find that strife and warfare have prevailed throughout the human world. Wars -- religious, racial or political -- have arisen from human ignorance, misunderstanding and lack of education.  ABU0016

In America, one of the prominent figures who created the Maxim gun confessed that truly humanity is in grievous torment and eternal punishment. Today there is no matter greater than universal peace, and likewise nothing in the human world is worse than war.  ABU1163

enlisting thyself among the soldiers of the kingdom of peace and reconciliation, delivering the people as far as possible from war and carnage, spreading righteousness and friendship and becoming the cause of tranquillity and composure to the world of humanity  AB09099

enlisting thyself among the soldiers of the kingdom of peace and reconciliation, delivering the people as far as possible from war and carnage, spreading righteousness and friendship and becoming the cause of tranquillity and composure to the world of humanity.  AB09099

May it banish the root causes of dissension and strife, institute a basis for peace and reconciliation, foster the spirit of fellowship among the children of men, and help to gather together all the peoples and nations beneath the tabernacle of harmony and truth.  AB12398

Man has set up imaginary lines, only to have these become causes of strife. A river is made a boundary, one side called France and the other Germany. The river was in reality created for both. What a superstition! An imaginary line to become a cause of bloodshed!  ABU2101

The wolves cannot go on for ever tearing the lambs. The Divine Assayer will try every soul according to his secret intentions. The Parliament of man will be established; humanity will be spiritual[ized] and the Standard of Peace will be hoisted above every home.   ABU0868

Another teaching of Baha'u'llah is in relation to universal peace: that all mankind must be awakened to and become conscious of the harm of war, that they should be brought to realize the benefits of peace and know that peace is from God while warfare is satanic.  ABU0023

That is, each one tears open the breast of another, and sees their own success in another's bitterness, and seeks their own unity in another's estrangement...Give up war and sharp claws, make peace your aim and seek culture and uprightness. Seek security and peace  AB04017

and not engage in wars and massacres, and that catastrophes such as that in the Balkans with their bloodshed and annihilation of families may not occur again. Until such events cease, humanity will find no rest, the tabernacle of universal peace will not be raised  ABU1617

The signatory Powers of the Hague Conventions did not abide by their own agreement. They violated in this last outburst of savagery every article of those carefully-drawn, long-debated conventions. In the name of patriotism they have committed every shameful crime.   ABU1398

For six thousand years there has been continuous warfare, pillage and carnage among the nations, and even the war in the Balkans to-day is but another instance of the religious prejudice caused by the misunderstanding existing among the people of different religions.   ABU0035

Would it not have been better if they settled their disputes like the individual members of a community before a tribunal or similar to the different States before the Supreme Court of Justice! Then they would have tasted the sweet delicacy of Love and the honey of affection.  ABU0646

Consider how humanity has retrograded from its ideals, for it glories in fratricide. If one person kill another he is called a murderer and the civil authority brings him before the law; but if he kill one hundred thousand people on a battlefield, he is hailed as a conqueror.   ABU0058

The gathering storm is most portentous! Mankind is gripped in the paroxysm of a fearful alarm. How cruel man is to send his brothers into the battle-field, so that they may cut each other to pieces! Just on the simple ground that thou art German, I am English and he is French!   ABU0099

The world is in greatest need of international peace. Until it is established, mankind will not attain composure and tranquillity. It is necessary that the nations and governments organize an international tribunal to which all their disputes and differences shall be referred.   ABU0052

The dark cloud of war has somewhat dissipated from the world's horizon and a faint ray of universal peace has dawned. Through the favors of the Lord of Hidden Bounties, it is hoped that the brilliant sun of peace and tranquility will shine radiantly from the dawning-place of hopes.  AB00491

Those who have provided the means for transporting arms and ammunition and the instruments of wars and massacres on earth will do so in the air. There will come to exist such instruments as to cause all the means of destruction in the past to be looked upon as children's playthings.  ABU3287

I thanked God - glorified be He - for having aided thee and enabled thee to be firm and steadfast in this grievous upheaval, and for illumining the world with the light of peace after it hath been darkened with the heavy clouds of war and conflict; this is not but a token of His mercy.  AB07723

Universal Peace is the best panacea for the diseases of the Islamic world, because it cannot withstand the military aggression of the European nations. But the cause of international Peace is fully established then there will be no war and the world of Islam will find eternal security.   ABU2967

They send their own people to the field of war and battle while they themselves live in palaces in complete comfort and ease. The leaders of nations in all their speeches expressed so much love of country and love of humanity, but they themselves ignited the world-consuming fire of war   ABU0548

Warfare will be changed to peace. Disloyalty will give place to faithfulness. Religious prejudice and sectarian strife, national conflict and racial estrangements will not remain. All parties will unite as one and people of different tribes and cultures will drink from a single fountain.  AB01251

Cause has hoisted the Banner of the Unity of the world of humanity. One of the instruments which will bring about universal peace is this very war, so that all the people might be disgusted with this confusion of the war, and that all the world of humanity might be inclined toward Peace.  ABU2393

If the pillars of peace truly arise to serve the welfare of humanity and become the manifestation of the blessed verse "the blame of any blamer shall not deter them from God," this feast of reconciliation will demolish the foundations of war and the world of creation will find tranquility.  AB05466

"Woe unto the world because of offenses!" he opened his talk, quoting the Scriptures, "for it must needs be that offenses come; but woe to that man by whom the offense cometh." The present Kings, emperors and rulers are directly responsible for these unprecedented calamities of universal war.  ABU0132

There has been another battle today and much blood has been shed. The poor have given their lives as a sacrifice to the greed of others. Men are fighting for the earth-for land-and it belongs to no one but God. Kings have fought for it from Charlemagne to Napoleon I, yet they had no right to it.  ABU1805

When the flames of war have spread across the world and its conflagration is increasing day by day, when all the differing factions of the earth, like bloodthirsty wolves, are tearing each other apart, we are both striving to find ways to extinguish these fires so that the light of love may shine.   AB04763

This recent terrible war proved that modern weapons of war exceed human capacity. The future cannot be compared to the past, for while ancient weapons and implements of war were very mild, modern weapons and implements of war can uproot human society in a short time and are beyond human endurance.   AB00423

In this century the voices of peace must drown the clamors for battle, and the principle of arbitration must gain sway over the arbitrement of the sword. Man must learn war no more neither must he let the brutal and barbaric forces of passion and lust control the humane intellectual and moral powers.  ABU1639

Consider what is happening in the Balkans. Human blood is being shed, properties are destroyed, possessions pillaged, cities and villages devastated. A world-enkindling fire is astir in the Balkans. God has created men to love each other; but instead, they kill each other with cruelty and bloodshed.   ABU0270

In order that they may safeguard their vital interests, independence and honor, they must, they argue, keep up these colossal armies and navies to the highest degree of efficiency. They believe they must keep peace amongst themselves at the point of bayonets, forts, machine guns and infernal engines.  ABU0265

Today all the nations of the world are warlike, and all governments are engaged in preparing hellish weapons and ammunition, especially the continent of Europe which has become a storehouse of inflammatory materials - it only awaits a single spark for that hell to burst into flames across all horizons.  AB02380

In these days the darkness of war has overspread the world, and thick clouds of bloodshed and ferocity have covered the horizon of humanity. Perchance, God willing, you will be instrumental in abolishing the great tyranny of war and in transforming the gloom of battle into the light of the love of God.   ABU1732

Consider carefully that for the last six thousand years there has been constant strife and warfare amongst the people. All the wars which have occurred in past history have been the basis of the destruction of the human race; love, on the other hand, has been the cause of cementing the people together.   ABU0036

Such a master-drama of this 20th century is the Universal War now being waged both in the East and in the West. We have been spectators of every other kind of dramas, tragedies and comic-operas and now we are witnessing the progress of the master-drama of this century played with machine guns and rifles.   ABU2630

Praise be to God that the fire of war in the lands of Europe has somewhat subsided, and the banner of strife has been cast down. Through divine assistance and grace, and through the spirituality of pure souls, the earth has found some tranquility, closed paths have reopened, and communication has begun anew.  AB00985

This nation can be blessed through being an instrumentality in establishing the Balkans Peace. Then these fighting nations shall become friendly and these dark clouds of enmity that have encircled the horizon of Balkans shall be removed. The light of Peace shall shine forth, darkness and enmity shall vanish.  ABU1911

Consider the assembly that was formed in The Hague for universal peace - how much discussion there was about peace, and how acceptable the words were! All nations sent representatives and all discussions were about nations and peoples living in peace and harmony, ending war and conflict, abandoning armaments.   ABU0531

The battlefield of human slaughter is raging with an impetuous madness and anger. The goddess of Vengeance is reaping a rich harvest of blood and tears. To whichever direction one give[s] his ears, he hears the news of war and inhumanity, the events of a barbaric culture and the results of a faulty civilization.  ABU0615

Two months ago I heard that practically all the inhabitants of Paris are in mourning! Just think of this one public misfortune! How it has affected all the people without exception! Mothers have lost their sons; wives are deprived of the protection of their husbands; sisters weep over the death of their brothers!   ABU0812

"I have come to find out what you want of me and my people? Why have you caused the shedding of the blood of all these people? For what reason have you ransacked all these cities? Why have you brought these armies from the end of the world to kill and be killed? What is back of this insatiable greed and rapacity?"   ABU0133

Christ desired to illumine the world with the lights of peace and reconciliation; these seek to darken it with the gloom of war and strife. Thus are they all in loss. There is no victor; all are vanquished. When thou lookest with the eye of truth, thou seest that they are all destroying one another; all are subdued.   ABU0954

War was the greatest calamity that could overtake the nations, because the people usually employed in agriculture, trades, commerce, and other useful arts, were taken away from their various occupations and turned into soldiers, so that there was great waste and loss, in addition to the destruction and carnage of war.   ABU0769

elaborate thou on the hardships of war and the advantages of peace, on the benefits of harmony and the harms of discord, on the readiness of the human world in these troubled times, on the nearness of the realization of lasting peace through the assistance of God and the joyful tidings that have encompassed the whole world  AB03866

Some of the German friends have asked that victory be given to Germany. We are not interfering with either party. Here at the Threshold of Baha'u'llah we pray that they may seek Peace and settle all their outstanding disputes before a judicial, impartial, international court. May they upraise the banner of Universal Peace!   ABU1218

In the course of My journey in the western countries, in all the synagogues and churches, I cried out that Europe was in grievous danger. It was like a barrel of gunpowder that with the least spark would explode and scorch everything in its grasp. I said to them, 'People, exert your efforts to protect humanity from this peril.'   ABU2319

For some time now, due to the turmoil and corruption in the Caucasus regions and interior Russia, communications have been cut off. This is the result of turmoil and corruption - that the doors of goodness are closed and comfort and tranquility are taken away. The immediate harm is evident while future consequences remain unknown.   AB11847

Warfare has ever been the cause of separation, disunion and discord. What destruction and loss befalls both in one year of strife and conflict -- the undoing of centuries. How urgent their necessity and demand for peace, with its comfort and progress, instead of war, which blasts and destroys the foundation of all human attainment.   ABU0137

After all, a claim and title to territory or native land is but a claim and attachment to the dust of earth. We live upon this earth for a few days and then rest beneath it forever. So it is our graveyard eternally. Shall man fight for the tomb which devours him, for his eternal sepulcher? What ignorance could be greater than this?   ABU0008

The Czar of Russia promoted The Hague Peace Conference and proposed the decreased in armament for all nations. In this Conference it was proved that Peace was beneficial to all countries, and war destroyed trade, etc. The Czar made a very good speech, though after it was over he, himself, was the first to declare war (against Japan).  ABU1410

They set two warring powers against each other, and how many souls - men, women and children - and how many cities and villages were destroyed and obliterated. Had other kings prevented this and considered the good of all, these matters would not have occurred, save what was destined in the Book of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.   BH01033

It must come, but America will not be involved. This war will be in Europe. You have taken a corner for yourselves. You do not interfere with others' business. You are not thinking of taking the European countries, and there is no one who is greedy to take your land. You are safe because the Atlantic ocean is a very strong, natural fort.  ABU0001

The world is at war and the human race is in travail and mortal combat. The dark night of hate hath taken over, and the light of good faith is blotted out. The peoples and kindreds of the earth have sharpened their claws, and are hurling themselves one against the other. It is the very foundation of the human race that is being destroyed.  AB00104

In short, the world of humanity is just now set aflame with an awful fire. Were you to scan history you would find that from the inception of human existence to the present time there has been continuous bloodshed. There has ever been warfare. There has ever been pillage and carnage. The world of humanity has never rested nor found repose.  ABU0013

"Seven million of our soldiers were armed and were afflicted with the fire of war and killing for five years. Three million fell, and one million were maimed and disabled. The cost of war was six billion pounds - each billion being a thousand million, meaning sixty thousand crores." Consider what losses and afflictions the others endured.   AB11811

After silence He has stirred up ferment and passion...We hope that the universal war will lead to universal peace, and that this bloodshed and violation and recklessness will yield purity and freedom. May the world find rest and the universe adornment. May the tumult of conflict and war be transformed into the jubilation of melody and song.  AB01924

You had expressed complaint about the war and strife, the battles and killing in the lands of Africa, and had voiced your regret, asking whether this unceasing enmity of the proud ones, continuing through ages and cycles, would persist, or whether the beloved beauty of fellowship and love would one day appear in the gathering of the world.   AB00220

In the past, during the time of the Apostle of God - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - the ordinance of holy war was revealed, and in this Most Great, Most Mighty Manifestation that ordinance hath been lifted. He shall not be asked of His doings. Verily He is the Commander, the Questioner, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.  BH00089

A civilization that would not require Krupp guns for its protection, thereby terrorizing the hearts of all people. A civilization that would not need to invent new weapons of war. A civilization that would not need to operate battleships and submarines at sea and airplanes and zeppelins in the air condemning humanity to utter ruin and loss.   AB01575

Be a general agreement all the governments of the world must disarm simultaneously and at the same time. It will not do if one lays down the arms and the other refuses to do so. The nations of the world must concur with each other concerning this supremely important subject, thus they may abandon together the deadly weapons of human slaughter.  ABU0566

We have tried war and witnessed its consequences which are devastation, confusion, and eternal loss. Now, according to divine teachings, let us for a time promote universal peace and lay the foundation of love and reconciliation among nations. Let us transform weapons into instruments of peace, and implements of wrath into tools of agriculture.  AB00183

By the delivery of eloquent speeches they will attract the attention of the world to the insanity of war adherents - thus organizing a strong, virile, wisely-propelled public opinion capable to stem the furious tide of any uprising and changing the current of blind evil forces into the channels of world solidarity and inter-racial brotherliness.  ABU1386

"war destroys the foundation of humanity, causes the ruin of the world, and has absolutely no benefit - both victor and vanquished are harmed" ... "from the beginning of recorded history until now, no one has ever been harmed by good fellowship, love and peace."   ABU0348

From the beginning of human history until this day, there has been strife among humanity, hatred and enmity, war and bloodshed. Why? Because of misunderstandings between religions, misunderstandings that have laid waste the human world. People have shed each other's blood, have taken each other's children captive, have plundered each other's property.  ABU0032

Arms and armaments will, then, be no more needed beyond that which is necessary to insure the internal security of their respective countries. If they attain unto this all-surpassing blessing, the people of each nation will pursue, with tranquillity and contentment, their own occupations, and the groanings and lamentations of most men would be silenced.  BH00005

At present it is certain that temporary peace is established but it is not lasting. All governments and nations have become tired of war, of the difficulties of travel, of huge expenditures, of the loss of life, of the affliction of women, of the great number of orphans, and they are driven by force to peace. But this peace is not permanent, it is temporary.   AB04688

Differences are the result of thoughts and imaginations. Human thoughts have only an ideal, not a tangible existence, yet they have become the cause of enmity and dissension... However, these differences have not proved to be worth the struggle of war. No man should hate another because his image is different, or because his habits and customs are different.   ABU0657

In these days the world suffereth from unrest and turmoil, from contention and conflict and mankind is confused and stricken, and yet Christ bade Peter sheath his sword. And though He declared that he that draweth his sword shall by the sword be brought into account, yet notwithstanding, the sword hath been drawn and the peoples of the world are engaged in conflict.  AB02129

For in these days humanity is afflicted with a chronic disease - bloodshed, destruction of divine foundations, devastation of cities and villages, killing of youth, orphaning of children, and homelessness of women. What calamity could be greater than this and what disease more dangerous? Consider that war was first religious, but now has become racial and patriotic war.   AB00357

The earthly colonel arrays the ranks of war and battle, but the heavenly colonel arrays himself with the melody of glorification and praise of the Concourse on High. For the warrior, greed and avarice become a tether, while for the peacemaker, culture becomes like a divine whale that roars until it completely removes the clamor and tumult and uproar of war from all horizons.   AB05089

Nations sometimes say, 'We wish to extend our boundaries!' Consider with me for a moment, 'What is the earth?' We live for a few years on its surface and then it becomes our eternal cemetery. Millions of generations are buried there. It is the universal graveyard of humanity. Is it praise worthy to engage in war for a cemetery--to pillage the wealth of nations for an eternal graveyard?   ABU0607

Consider the torrents of blood shed in the fields of battle for no good cause and for no sane purpose. Consider how many of humanities noble trees have been uprooted in their youth, how many lamps have been extinguished in this world barely after they were ignited, how many multi-coloured buds have been cut down before they had a chance to bloom, before their fragrant blossoms even opened.  AB00951

The progress of thoughts of international peace is very slow. Whenever they have nothing else to do, then they give vent to the discussion of these principles of peace, but as long as they are occupied with other things they do not give any importance to these thoughts. These thoughts in Europe are like unto the dessert at dinner, but the principal food is the discussion of army and navy.   ABU0034

During the last six thousand years nations have hated one another, it is now time to stop. War must cease. Let us be united and love one another and await the result. We know the effects of war are bad. So let us try, as an experiment, peace, and if the results of peace are bad, then we can choose if it would be better to go back to the old state of war! Let us in any case make the experiment.  ABU2033

In olden times if a war took place there would be gathered by each party about one hundred thousand men and during one year perhaps seven or eight thousand would be killed. But now in this age in the war between Russia and Japan about one and a half million were called to arms and one third of that number were lost, and a half million were wounded or sick. Such a war has never before occurred.  ABU0508

They kill for national aggrandizement, notwithstanding this terrestrial globe is but a dark world of grossest matter. It is a world of sorrow and grief, a world of disappointment and unhappiness, a world of death. For after all, the earth is but the everlasting graveyard, the vast, universal cemetery of all mankind. Yet men fight to possess this graveyard, waging war and battle, killing each other.  ABU0009

Leave the battle line and adorn the gathering of peace. Abandon the field of combat and prepare the feast of reconciliation. Take up the cup of friendship and in the assembly of truth pour forth the wine of concord, so that all the peoples of the world may enter beneath the pavilion of love, unity and universal peace. Demolish the foundation of discord and beautify the palace of harmony and fairness.  AB07441

The darkness of ignorance has darkened the horizon of the world, and the fire of war near and far from the armies of Europe and America has sent flames to the heavens, eventually spreading to Asia and Africa as well. All the masters of conflict and strife cry out "Come to battle!", except the Baha'is, who have blended Turk and Tajik, and Asia and America are like two sweethearts embracing each other.  AB01328

Reflect that, under such conditions of life, no Government would need to prepare and accumulate war materials, or would need to pay heed to the invention of new weapons of defence for the vexation and hurt of mankind. On the contrary they would require only a few soldiers, as a means of assuring the safety of the state and punishing the wicked and rebellious and preventing the growth of civil sedition.   ABU1720

You see how floods have erased all traces, and crimson blood flows like an overwhelming river in those regions, and souls are pouring forth in those distant lands. Hearts are trembling, breasts are aflame with the fire of passion, eyes are streaming with tears, and sighs rise from breasts due to these calamities prevailing over the lands. Nothing is seen but spilled blood, poisoned arrows and raised spears.  AB00840

In this severe war and grievous torment it became firmly established that nothing but divine teachings are the cause of success and prosperity, and nothing but heavenly law can preserve the human world. This was the outcome of the great civilization that came to pass. The flood of this devastating war has not yet subsided when fear of other difficulties has arisen and preparation of war materiel is in view.   AB02221

Similarly, all these nations who are fighting each other and forming red rivers of the blood of their fellowmen - are defeated - one and all. For all of them are captives in the claws of lust and passion, are prompted by greed and cupidity and are imbued with the spirit of jealousy and hatred. The Army of the oneness of the world of humanity conquers over all, the Flag of Universal Peace shall wave over all.   ABU1178

However, in certain areas unsuitable for women, such as in defending society from enemy attack, women are not obligated to engage in military defense. Perhaps someday savage and barbaric tribes may attack society to kill everyone - in such cases defense is necessary, but it is obligatory for men, not women. For women's hearts are tender and cannot bear warfare, even in defense. In this matter women are exempt.  AB00799

Today, upon the earth, one sees the sad spectacle of cruel war! Man slays his brother man for selfish gain, and to enlarge his territories! For this ignoble ambition hate has taken possession of his heart, and more and more blood is shed! Fresh battles are fought, the armies are increased, more cannon, more guns, more explosives of all kinds are sent out -- so does bitterness and hate augment from day to day!   ABU0613

These governments, without remembering the difficulties of this war, or considering its consequences, or taking into account the gravity of the situation, rush recklessly into war. Now both sides are remorseful. Had they known it would come to this, they would not have acted so rashly. In their hearts they say the world was at peace and we were at peace. We have cast both the world and ourselves into calamity.   ABU1831

Consider how many men are engaged most devotedly in the present War; how they sacrifice and give their lives and possessions; how great is the number of soldiers among them. They are commanded by men who have dedicated their lives to the study of the science of war. They are all ready to sacrifice themselves in an instant. And yet their sacrifice has no benefit. [It is transient,] like a picture reflected on water.   ABU1378

Fifty people have been slain in the twinkling of an eye, yet they know not why they rush headlong to their doom. Like in these days when so many in Europe are being annihilated, so many fathers are being rendered sonless, so many children fatherless, so many homes are being laid waste, so many mothers throughout the world are crying and lamenting for their children--it has no importance. Soon no trace of it remains.   ABU0951

See how bloodthirsty mankind is, see how cruel man is, how heedless of God he is. Now if instead of sword and saber and bullet and rifle and cannon, they would engage in love and affection and pleasure and delight and celebration and joy, and become intoxicated with the wine of gladness at the feast of fulfillment, and embrace each other as intimate companions harmonious with the angel's song - would that not be better?  ABU0679

destroy ye the fabric of strife and war from the face of the earth... The Kingdom of peace, salvation, uprightness and reconciliation is founded in the Invisible World... that by the power of the Most Great Name, the friends of God may conquer this world through love, friendship and the strength of the Kingdom of peace; the human race become compassionate, and bloodshed and carnage be completely effaced from the universe  AB04443

I beseech you, one and all, to add your prayers to mine to the end that war and bloodshed may cease, and that love, friendship, peace and unity may reign in the world. All down the ages we see how blood has stained the surface of the earth; but now a ray of greater light has come, man's intelligence is greater, spirituality is beginning to grow, and a time is surely coming when the religions of the world will be at peace.  ABU0502

In these days the East is in a condition of ferment. The Balkans have proved to be a volcano, when the fire of warfare is raging. Blood is being shed, properties are pillaged, children are down-trodden, and countries are laid waste. Perchance through the grace and favor of God the endeavors of the American people may provide means to establish amity among the nations, so that hate may be replaced by love, and war by peace.  ABU0219

But nowadays material civilization invents Krupp guns, rifles, destructive war implements, vices and corruptions are increased etc. All these things are the results of material civilization...But we cannot live in these days without war...No doubt there will be a great war...Now Europe is waging a moral war in Balkans...Right! May God protect Europe. I pray to God that this fire of war may not become enkindled in Europe.  ABU0940

during these wartime years, whilst all of the peoples were caught up in the pursuit of prestige and fame, were afflicted with desires and outward appearances, and, like unto ferocious lions, were staining their teeth and claws with one other's blood, the loved ones of God have been occupied, day and night, and with their hearts and souls, with establishing the divine foundations, and are engaged in promulgating the Lord's teachings.   AB02602

Yet again you see the human world is at war and conflict from end to end - there is war between religions, war between peoples, war between nations, war between rulers. How wonderful it would be if these black clouds would disperse from the horizon of the world and the light of reality would shine forth, if the dust of war and bloodshed would settle and the breeze of providence would waft from the direction of peace and tranquility.   AB02153

Napoleon the Great conquered Germany and brought under his control its domain but to what result! It was only a temporary victory. It ruined the homes of thousands to satisfy the beastly ambition of a single man. In a short while Germany recuperated and avenged the wrongs meted him by striking the terror of his arms into the very heart of France. The great conqueror himself spent his last days in misery [on] the Island of St. Helena.  ABU2008

"Yes, Mousier Bernard was also taken to the battlefield, but if there was a single person in the world who was against war, it was him. He detested it most intensely and was so utterly against it that I am unable to describe for you. However, he was forced into joining the combat. For those who have sacrificed themselves in the path of God, it is difficult to sacrifice instead for mere soil, which is the least worthy of all creation."  ABU1991

After the quieting of the fires of war, four letters arrived from you in succession. Since they brought news of the health and safety of the divine friends, they caused the utmost joy. Praise be to God that in this great tempest, the Ship of the Covenant reached the shore of salvation. The danger was severe and there was cause for fear and trepidation, yet through divine protection the friends in all regions remained safe and preserved  AB00794

We have the history of the world for nearly six thousand years. During these six thousand years there has been constant war, strife, bloodshed. We can see at a glance the results, achievements and outcomes of war. The history of warfare and strife is known, the effect apparent. Let us now try peace for awhile. If good results follow, let us adhere to it. If not let us throw it away and fight again. Nothing will be lost by the experiment.  ABU0125

God willing, the sun of rest and tranquility will soon rise from the horizon of this world, and humanity will repose in the cradle of ease and joy. These are the days of testing, that pure gold may be separated and souls filled with prejudice and disease may vanish. The lights of justice and equity shall shine forth and be freed from the bonds of nature. It is abundantly clear that God, exalted be His glory, did not desire this war and strife.  ABU0084

For centuries and cycles humanity has been engaged in war and conflict. At one time the pretext for war has been religion, at another time patriotism, racial prejudice, national politics, territorial conquest or commercial expansion; in brief, humanity has never been at peace during the period of known history. What blood has been shed! How many fathers have mourned the loss of sons; how many sons have wept for fathers, and mothers for dear ones!  ABU0192

Continual additions to the armies and navies of the world will be made, and the fear and certainty of the great pandemic war -- the war unparalleled in history -- will be intensified; for armament, heretofore limited, is now being increased upon a colossal scale. Conditions are becoming acute, drawing nigh unto the degree of men warring upon the seas, warring upon the plains, warring in the very atmosphere with a violence unknown in former centuries.  ABU0093

Today the greatest calamity in the world is war. Humanity has no peace and war is constant, because all nations are continuously preparing for war. All wealth is spent on war. The poor farmer toils day and night with the labor of his hands and sweat of his brow to obtain a few seeds and gather a small harvest, but to what benefit? For the produce goes to war preparations and is spent on cannons, rifles, arsenals and warships. This financial war is constant.  ABU0430

The human world, which is the dawning-place of the All-Merciful, has become an arena of warfare and bloodshed. One makes religion the cause of demolishing every firm foundation, another makes faith and belief an excuse for savagery in the human world, another imagines an illusory homeland and rises up in dishonesty in the name of patriotism, another claims valor and courage and stains his hand with human blood and begins oppression and torment against his fellow man.  AB00406

Consider now, that the most advanced and civilized countries of the world have been turned into arsenals of explosives, that the continents of the globe have been transformed into huge camps and battlefields, that the peoples of the world have formed themselves into armed nations, and that the governments of the world are vying with each other as to who will first step into the field of carnage and bloodshed, thus subjecting mankind to the utmost degree of affliction.  AB00022

"The issue of paramount importance in the world today is international peace. The European continent is like an arsenal, a storehouse of explosives ready for ignition, and one spark will set the whole of Europe aflame, particularly at this time when the Balkan question is before the world. Even now war is raging furiously in some places, the blood of innocent people is being shed, children are made captive, women are left without support, and homes are being destroyed."  ABU0119

This is why Christ says the body is sorrowful because it belongs to the material world and has attachment to the material world, but the spirit is joyful because it partakes of the effusions of the divine realm... the Great War is the cause of destruction while peace is the cause of prosperity; war demolishes the edifice of humanity while peace establishes the divine foundation; war is death while peace is life; war is satanic suggestions while peace is divine inspirations.   AB12110

Even some of them fought against people, but their fighting was not like the fighting of other persons - rather it was based on justice and fairness. But the warfare of people in general stems only from hatred and enmity or worldly conquest. How different these are, when that fighting was to establish justice and fairness, prevent oppressors from tyranny and execute retribution, while this fighting springs from doubt, evil whisperings, love of base desires, plunder and raids.  AB00710

They also say that war and strife cause the emergence and manifestation of zeal and valor and the progress and advancement of nations over each other. We say that if by zeal and valor is meant physical pride and courage and the manifestation of animal powers, then the more savage a person is, the better. Why should this war and strife be limited to nations? Indeed it would be better between individuals. Why should there be security and order? Chaos and disorder would be preferable.  ABU0242

And now you see that war destroys the edifice of humanity, causes the ruin of the world, and yields absolutely no fruit. Both victor and vanquished suffer loss. It is like two ships colliding - even if one sinks the other, the surviving vessel is still damaged and impaired. At most, one state temporarily prevails over another, but this victory is fleeting. Days pass and the vanquished becomes the victor. How many times has France triumphed over Germany, and then Germany over France!  ABU0359

In ancient times, medieval times, and recent centuries there has always been war and strife either between two governments, two nations, or two religions and sects. Thousands of homes have been destroyed, hundreds of thousands of sons left fatherless, hundreds of thousands of mothers left sonless. Therefore humanity has not yet reached perfection, for this savagery befits the animal world, not the human world. What befits humanity is love - war and strife are worthy of savage beasts.  ABU0056

God willing, this sun of rest and tranquility shall soon dawn from the horizon of this world, and humanity shall repose in the cradle of ease and joy. From this city, whence the call of peace should be raised, the sound of drums and cymbals is heard. From this city, whence the spirit of brotherhood and kindness should flow to other regions, the spirit of war and strife is spread abroad. The city of peace has become the city of discord, and the land of Christ has been stained with blood.  ABU0417

A thousand times alas! that this glorious century has been besmeared with war and strife, hatred and rancor. Bloodthirsty wolves are tearing the sheep of God. Destruction is more widespread than in all the ages of the past. What mediaeval age held the horror of a Krupp gun, a Mauser rifle or a shrapnel shell that kills a whole camp? On the sea we have the submarine and the dreadnaught. If you compare the past with this age, impartial judgment will call this the age of human fratricide.   ABU0083

"The wise man sees that another army with no cannons or rifles but with quite other armaments shall defeat this Army. The day is coming when all these armies and regiments are vanquished by the ever-victorious army of the Kingdom of Abha and theirs shall be the glorious triumphs of Peace and brotherhood."   ABU2890

Some fifty to sixty years ago, when the fire of war was raging amongst governments and nations and bloodshed was considered the greatest of human attainments, the blood of thousands of human souls coloured the earth each day. Children were left without fathers, fathers without their sons, and mothers moaned and wailed, with tearful eyes and burning hearts, at the loss of their children. The darkness of hatred and animosity had enveloped humanity, the heavenly light had completely disappeared, and the breathings of the Holy Spirit were withheld.  AB00242

When we look into the pages of history, past and present, we see the black earth reddened by human blood. Men kill each other like the savage wolves, and forget the laws of love and tolerance. Look at the present Turco-Italian war; consider for a moment the fate of these unhappy people! How many have been killed during this sad time? How many homes are ruined, wives desolate, and children orphans! And what is to be gained in exchange for all this anguish and heartache? Only a corner of the earth!  ABU0276

Such a bloody universal war had never occurred in previous centuries. After the establishment of the Hague tribunal and the formation of universal peace assemblies in Europe and America and those eloquent speeches, the Russo-Japanese war destroyed the foundation of the world of creation, and now this universal war in which millions are shedding each other's blood on the battlefield, children becoming orphans and women widowed, youth stained with blood and dust, cities ruined and properties plundered   AB00586

Praise be to God that the fire of war has been extinguished in most lands and peace and tranquility have, to some degree, been established. Through God's favors, my hope is that this fire will be completely quenched and that the banner of peace and concord will wave over all horizons. Although this is but the beginning of the dawn of universal peace, I hope that through divine assistance and grace its radiant sun will rise and illumine all horizons with the light of unity, harmony and the Most Great Peace.  AB12107

At the time of the Franco-Prussian War, in the year 1870 of the Christian era, it was reported that 600,000 men died, broken and beaten, on the field of battle. How many a home was torn out by the roots; how many a city, flourishing the night before, was toppled down by sunrise. How many a child was orphaned and abandoned, how many an old father and mother had to see their sons, the young fruit of their lives, twisting and dying in dust and blood. How many women were widowed, left without a helper or protector.  AB00004

Today the world of humanity the most important matter is the question of Universal Peace. The realization of this principle is the crying need of the time. People have become restive and discontented. The political world of every civilized nation has become a vast arena for the exhibition of militarism and the display of martial spirit. The minds of the statesmen and Cabinet Ministers of every government are chiefly occupied with the question of war, and the council chambers are resounding with the call to war.   ABU0600

When that spot (France) is gazed at attentively, the breasts of the oppressed will be revealed which have acted as targets to darts and arrows; the blood of the afflicted ones will be seen which has colored red the ground, and the sighs and wails of orphans will be heard that reach the summit of heaven. The cries and groans of mothers that mourn the loss of their children, surge like unto the billows of the sea, and the moans and lamentations of fathers, distressed at the loss of their sons, upset and wound the hearts.  AB01247

The war has intensified exceedingly, whether from the eastern front, the western front of Russia, from Iraq, or from the Caucasus. The fire of war blazes in all directions; never in history have such events transpired. Never has there been such a universal war in the world. At most, two powers would engage in conflict, or perhaps three. But in this war all the powers of Europe, save the minor states, are fighting with their full might. Such a thing has never occurred. Aerial warfare and submarine warfare have been added.  ABU0353

"For thousands of years we have had bloodshed and strife. It is enough; it is sufficient. Now is the time to associate together in love and harmony. For thousands of years we have tried the sword and warfare; let mankind for a time at least live in peace. Review history and consider how much savagery, how much bloodshed and battle the world has witnessed. It has been either religious warfare, political warfare or some other clash of human interests. The world of humanity has never enjoyed the blessing of universal peace."  ABU0145

The law of peace has come to stay. We are living in the radiant age of peace. We are daily advancing in the path of peace. The army of peace is being recruited from among all nations and people. From now on less and less will be the magic spell of war, greater and greater will be the influence of peace. The day is coming when the dove of peace will reign over all the continents, the laws of peace will rule all nations and the resources of war will be expended upon that which will be conducive to the spiritualizing of mankind.  ABU1416

Yes, since they have disobeyed the blessed instructions [of Bahá'u'lláh]. Only a few countries have representatives in the League of Nations, whereas the representatives must be appointed and ratified by the nation, the government, the monarch and the Senate. They do not even consult. On the other hand, some governments are deprived of membership, and this has precipitated their fury and prompted their feeling of revenge. Governments have secret alliances with each other of which no one is aware, but these schemes will reach nowhere.  ABU3656

Yet even now warfare prevails. Envy and hatred have arisen between nations. Observe what is taking place in Tripoli: men cutting each other into pieces, bombardment from the sea, attacks from the land and the hail of dynamite from the very heaven itself. The contending armies are thirsting for each other's blood. How they can do this is inconceivable. They have fathers, mothers, children; they are human. What of their wives and families? Think of their anguish and suffering. How unjust, how terrible! Human beings should prevent and forbid this.   ABU0901

O dear friends! The world is in strife and struggle, and mankind in the utmost enmity and misery. The darkness of oppression hath encompassed all and the light of faithfulness is concealed. All nations and peoples of the world have sharpened their claws and engage in combat and contention with one another. The edifice of man is shattered; thousands of homes are destitute and ruined. Each year thousands upon thousands of human beings are slaughtered on fields of battle, stained with dust and blood, while the pavilion of happiness and life is overthrown.  AB00053

Despite all this, fifty years ago the pen of the Most High was raised, forbidding all from conflict and war, inviting them to universal peace, offering loving counsel to friend and stranger alike, and addressing all the monarchs that war is a disgrace to humanity and that fighting and savagery belong to the animal world. For in the world, every ruin is a sign of war, and every prosperity a symbol of peace and reconciliation. Peace is the cause of life, and war the cause of death. Peace awakens love, while war is the destroyer of affection and kindness.   AB00178

The world is engaged in war and struggle, and mankind is in the utmost conflict and danger. The darkness of unfaithfulness has enshrouded the earth and the illumination of faithfulness has become concealed. All nations and tribes of the world have sharpened their claws and are warring and fighting with each other. The edifice of mankind is shattered. Thousands of families are wandering disconsolate. Thousands of thousands of souls are besmeared with dust and blood in the arena of battle and struggle every year, and the tent of happiness and life is overthrown.  AB00309

These soldiers are in reality prisoners. They are restricted in all their affairs. They cannot deviate one hair's breadth from the prescribed rules. They are circumscribed in their eating, sleeping and walking. They are not at all free. These men are prisoners in everything save the name. Because they are called soldiers and are summoned to defend what the demagogues call "Fatherland" they willingly go through all these hardships. The battle-fields of the world have been crimsoned with the blood of millions of soldiers, all to no purpose. Today no one knows their names.   ABU1123

Consider what is happening now in Tripoli - how many fathers become sonless, how many young children become fatherless, how many loving mothers weep in grief for their children, how many wives wail and lament for their husbands. This sacred human blood is being spilled for earth. Predatory animals do not fight for territory - each is content with its place. The wolf is content with its den, the leopard with its cave, the lion with its jungle. None thinks to transgress against another. But alas, this merciless human, even if possessing all dwellings, still thinks of acquiring more.  ABU0113

The fires of conflict have blazed so high that never in early times, not in the Middle Ages, not in recent centuries hath there ever been such a hideous war, a war that is even as millstones, taking for grain the skulls of men. Nay, even worse, for flourishing countries have been reduced to rubble, cities have been levelled with the ground, and many a once prosperous village hath been turned into ruin. Fathers have lost their sons, and sons their fathers. Mothers have wept away their hearts over dead children. Children have been orphaned, women left to wander, vagrants without a home.   AB00197

Russia had tried several years before to declare universal peace, and when Japan made the attack, Russia should have sent her warships, then called a Council of The Hague to as all the Powers what to do, and leave the decision in their hands. And had the Powers decided that was necessary, then Russia should have begun. And had they decided that Russia must stand by her desire (to have peace) then she should have given up Manchuria, to the Japanese. Then the whole world would have applauded Russia and then it would have been proven that Russia was sincere in declaring her former intentions.   ABU2652

Look at the turmoil and tumult occurring in Manchuria. Consider, you who have eyes to see. All these conflicts take place in the world of dust. In the end, this unclean dust, like an impudent serpent, will swallow up every single human being, and will not spare a single soul. Despite its iniquity and injustice, this black earth is beloved of all, the seductive sweetheart of the horizons. How thoughtless, how ignorant, that for the sake of this useless dust, the affliction of the body and the soul, such sacrifices should be made, that blood should be shed, cities razed, and life and property despoiled.  AB00341

All nations and tribes, all religions and cults in all regions, are occupied in preparing and improving weapons of fighting and striking, and in inventing destructive materials. You, who are Baha'is, ought, in opposition to this injustice and oppression, tyranny and aggression, to open the doors of affection and love, union and freedom, upon the face of the human world; become a river of peace and purity to extinguish the fire of war and quarrel, and remove, through the light of love and fidelity, the darkness of oppression and cruelty, in order that this world-consuming fire be put down and extinguished.   AB01792

Tonight they have brought to the town the censored moving-picture of the German war and all the people are going to see it. Those questions which are the cause of the wrath and indignation of the Lord are made the objects of the glorification of mankind. Recent Congresses, through conventions and treaties have limited and defined the art of war;- so that the non-combatants, the defenseless towns, the open, unfortified cities, the innocent citizens and the peaceful commerce of the nations be not violated; but in this universal war all these rules which were ratified by the governments are set aside and abrogated.   ABU1626

In the name of God, the Most Merciful, the Most Compassionate! O ye beloved of God, dearly cherished friends! The darkness of heedlessness hath encompassed the world, and sombre clouds have concealed the horizon of humanity. The human world hath fallen into tribulation and hardship, and all the peoples of the earth are bewildered and lost. From the dawn of human history until now, never hath such a soul-consuming flame been kindled, nor such a conflagration spread to all horizons. All eyes are weeping and all hearts are burning. The whole continent of Europe hath become a field of bloodshed and an arena of savagery.  AB00177

"No nation can follow a peace policy, while its neighbor remains warlike. For example, if France should cease to maintain her armaments while Germany should maintain hers, France would not be able to offer resistance to attack and would simply invite her own destruction. If France added to her armaments and Germany did not do the same, France would be the victor as soon as the armed nation fell upon the disarmed one." "Disarmament, as I have said, must be by international agreement and it must be done at the same time. The nations must agree to abandon the ancient pursuit of war and lay down their arms simultaneously."  ABU0315

Discord and rebellion have intensified in all regions, and the calamities of sedition and corruption have arisen in every land. The multitudes are contending, the roots and branches are disputing, the tribes are attacking each other, the clans are fighting, the peoples are battling, and the high and low are warring. No harmony or concord remains - every group has drawn a sharp sword and every company has raised thirsty spears. Nothing is heard save the rumbling of cannons and the rolling of thunder and lightning. O Lord! The lands are laid waste, the traces are obliterated, the palaces are demolished, and the graves are filled.   AB00126

The politicians of the world maintain that war is the cause of material and intellectual progress. Yet they themselves consider the Bedouin Arabs to be contemptible and savage because they raid one another and plunder each other's property, while they themselves do exactly the same thing. The only difference is that the Arabs do this with sword and spear, while they do it with cannon and rifle. For fifty years they have strived, yet they have wasted all their efforts in six months. How many souls have perished! Even if they conquer a country, how can a mother whose children have been killed find any joy or delight in such a victory?   ABU2234

I desire for you all that you will have this great assistance and partake of this great bounty, and that in spirit and heart you will strive and endeavor until the world of war become the world of peace; the world of darkness the world of light; satanic conduct be turned into heavenly behavior; the ruined places become built up; the sword be turned into the olive branch; the flash of hatred become the flame of the love of God and the noise of the gun the voice of the Kingdom; the soldiers of death the soldiers of life; all the nations of the world one nation; all races as one race; and all national anthems harmonized into one melody.  AB02184

Nearly fifty years ago, Baha'u'llah promulgated teachings and raised the call of universal peace. In all His Tablets and epistles, He explicitly foretold these present events, warning that humanity was in grave danger and that a universal war was impending and inevitable, for the inflammable materials stored in the infernal arsenals of Europe would be ignited by a single spark. War, He explained, destroys the divine edifice of humanity, while man is the divine foundation. Peace is embodied life; war is death personified. Peace is the divine spirit; war is satanic whisperings. Peace is the light of the horizons; war is absolute darkness.  AB00172

From this tumult in the East, there is the pattern of resurrection. Armies and troops like floods of water arrive group by group. The battlefield is an arena for determined forces. The fire of war is the flame of rifle and cannon. The fires of battles are the inferno of Krupp. Dragon-like vessels are engaged in attack and battle. The foundation of fortresses is destroyed and buried. Strong castles are leveled to the ground. Troops like waves are drowned and destroyed in the sea of death by incurable demise. Bodies of the slain are rolling in dust and blood. Rivers of blood are flowing and streaming. The foundation of humanity is demolished and ruined.  AB00533

Ten or fifteen days ago, a conversation took place with the German Consul regarding the matter of war, who insisted upon the increase and perfection of military power. He claimed that the more perfect the military power, the more it would lead to progress. Some Germans and other people were present, and they too confirmed and agreed on this matter. It was mentioned that if the power of love were to prevail, its influence would be greater than military might. In the world of existence, no power is as penetrating as the power of love. Through military force, people become outwardly subdued and silent, but through the power of love, they submit willingly.  ABU0135

All mankind was held in the grip of anguish, and calamities afflicted every soul, while the safety of the friends constituted one of the greatest gifts. For that we thank God and pray that He may confer upon every one that which will illumine the hearts, refresh the souls, bestow light to the eyes and brighten the visions; and that is the dawn of the Sun of the Truth upon all lands, from the horizon of universal peace. Undoubtedly the standard of universal peace shall be unfurled, its legions shall conquer, its call shall be raised, its rays shall beam forth upon all lands. At present it is only the dawn of its morn, for its sun shall shine in full splendor upon all regions.  AB02291

I read in a newspaper the other day a story concerning the present conflict raging between the European Powers... The German people were praying to God that He may give them victory over their enemies... The French nation was entreating the Almighty to defeat the forces of their foes... The inhabitants of Great Britain were raising their voices to the throne of the Omnipotent, pleading with Him to crush the schemes of the barbarian and pagan adversary... The Russians gathering in their cathedrals and churches besought the Lord to give them the sceptre of conquest... The Belgians implored the King of Kings to overthrow the fortune of the destroyers of their homes and hearths.  ABU1860

This war has been instrumental in partly awakening mankind and it has exposed the virtues of Universal Peace. All people are desirous of having Universal Peace because they have suffered from this universal war. They do not want another war like it. Gradually racial prejudice will be dispelled. There will come a day when the German will say to the Frenchman: 'I am a Frenchman.' And the Frenchman will say: 'I am a German.' If the Government should like to wage war the people would not agree to it. They would say: 'If ye leaders have any war go and fight it out. We will not go.' All have understood that war is the destruction of the foundation of humanity. It has no benefit save loss.  ABU0155

How does this law 'correspond' with the murderous butchery of Mohamadans and Christians in this last war between Turkey and the Balkan allies who in turn fell upon each other as soon as they put their so-called common enemy hors de combat? Again Christ says: 'Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.' How does this agree with the intrigues of politicians, the machinations of the diplomatists behind the closed doors of their chancelleries and the constant incitement of jingo-press with their Pseudo-patriotism and the Continent of Europe becoming one vast, dangerous arsenal for the combustion of which only one spark is necessary and then there will be a world-consuming conflagration?  ABU0843

From what I can gather from the events of my life, history clearly shows the wars that have been waged, the peace measures that were subsequently adopted, have proved inevitable failures. The Crimean war and the Treaty of Paris in 1856, the Austro-Italian war of 1859; the Danish war of 1864; the Austro-Prussian war of 1866; the Franco-Prussian war of 1870, the Russo-Turkish war of 1877 and the Congress of Berlin, the Balkan war and subsequently this world war with its present Universal Peace Conference. Wars will succeed; peace measures and pacific documents will remain dead letters unless the Word of God and His Supreme Power comes to exercise its influence. Not until this is attained may lasting peace be realised.   ABU2519

This recent war has proved to the world and the people that war is destruction while universal peace is construction; war is death while peace is life; war is rapacity and bloodthirstiness while peace is beneficence and humaneness; war is an appurtenance of the world of nature while peace is of the foundation of the religion of God; war is darkness upon darkness while peace is heavenly light; war is the destroyer of the edifice of mankind while peace is the everlasting life of the world of humanity; war is like a devouring wolf while peace is like the angels of heaven; war is the struggle for existence while peace is mutual aid and cooperation among the peoples of the world and the cause of the good pleasure of the True One in the heavenly realm.  AB00016

"War" he said emphatically "is the work of Satan, the devilish instrument of hell. Nations in various ages have resorted to different excuses to slaughter their fellowmen and crown their heads with the bloody crown of so-called victory which we may call it defeat. In the past religious wars were repeatedly waged on the ground that this is Mohamadan, that is Christian, this Hindu, that is a Jew etc. This was a pretext appealed to the religious emotions of mankind. Another excuse has been and is that of country or patriotism, this is France, that is Germany, here is England and that is India. Let my country advance at the expense of another. Let me do something to grab a piece of somebody else's land. Let the commerce of my people develop while the other is ruined!"   ABU0237

With a thousand worries, troubles and tears he raises a child. Then, he readily puts thousands upon thousands of them to the sword's blade. It takes twenty years for a person to grow to maturity and full strength, but in an instant, these people massacre tens of thousands of men and allow them to perish. How many cities are thoroughly destroyed, how many villages are reduced to heaps of dust, how much blood reddens the soil and how immense are the properties that are plundered and wrecked! And yet, there is no benefit in any of this! Their purpose is to be victorious. At one time, France was triumphant over Germany, and, at another time, the converse stood true. None of these victories are lasting and no good will come of them, much as they did not benefit them in the past.   ABU1669

In this day the majority of mankind are endeavoring to destroy the foundations of the happiness of the world. How many are engaged in the invention of means for the destruction of human kind; how many are employed in the science and practice of war; how many are occupied in various kinds of strife and antagonism; how many stand ready to shed the blood of innocent men, their brothers! So it is that history is blackened with this record of human intention and accomplishment. Every hour war is threatened upon some new pretext; today patriotism is its basis, tomorrow religious prejudice, racial egotism, territorial greed, commercial selfishness--it matters little what the excuse may be--blood is shed and human beings torn to pieces upon battlefields. Political interests clash; a great war follows; sadness, gloom and cruelty envelop the world.  ABU0363

Consider how in the wilderness of Manchuria two million souls sacrificed their lives for the sake of earth, and throughout the winter season, in cold and storm and snow and rain, from morn till night they strove with utmost vigor to shed blood in the field of sacrifice. They shall find no fruit save manifest loss. Indeed, for a few days that base region falls into the hands of this one and that, and in the end remains in the possession of none, for unto God belongeth the heritage of the heavens and of the earth. Now that group endured such grief and sorrow for the sake of black earth, and saw no fruit save loss and deprivation, and ere long Hath there not been a time when man was a thing unremembered? All these labors will be wasted and all these hardships will yield no result. Indeed, war and strife, battle and conflict, striking and struggling are a disgrace to the human world and prevent prosperity and salvation.  AB01638
