The fourth principle or teaching of Baha'u'llah is the readjustment and equalization of the economic standards of mankind. This deals with the question of human livelihood. It is evident that under present systems and conditions of government the poor are subject to the greatest need and distress while others more fortunate live in luxury and plenty far beyond their actual necessities. This inequality of portion and privilege is one of the deep and vital problems of human society.  ABU0051

The kings will remain kings, ministers - ministers; the rich - rich; the poor will be in comfort and each person of humanity can find his greatest desire herein. These teachings of Baha'u'llah are all inclusive. Other teachings are like branches but the teachings of Baha'u'llah are like the trunk of a tree which sends out all branches.  ABU1508

All the peoples of the world will enjoy like interests, and the poor shall possess a portion of the comforts of life. Just as the rich are surrounded by their luxuries in palaces, the poor will have at least their comfortable and pleasant places of abode; and just as the wealthy enjoy a variety of food, the needy shall have their necessities and no longer live in poverty. In short, a readjustment of the economic order will come about.  ABU0192


One of Baha'u'llah's teachings is the adjustment of means of livelihood in human society. Under this adjustment there can be no extremes in human conditions as regards wealth and sustenance. For the community needs financier, farmer, merchant and laborer just as an army must be composed of commander, officers and privates. All cannot be commanders; all cannot be officers or privates. Each in his station in the social fabric must be competent -- each in his function according to ability but with justness of opportunity for all.  ABU0437

Through the manifestation of God's great equity the poor of the world will be rewarded and assisted fully, and there will be a readjustment in the economic conditions of mankind so that in the future there will not be the abnormally rich nor the abject poor. The rich will enjoy the privilege of this new economic condition as well as the poor, for owing to certain provisions and restrictions they will not be able to accumulate so much as to be burdened by its management, while the poor will be relieved from the stress of want and misery.   ABU0152

Now, the root cause of these difficulties lies in the law of nature that governs present-day civilization, for it results in a handful of people accumulating vast fortunes that far exceed their needs, while the greater number remain naked, destitute, and helpless. This is at once contrary to justice, to humanity and to fairness; it is the very height of inequity and runs counter to the good pleasure of the All-Merciful.   AB00099

It is therefore clearly established that the appropriation of excessive wealth by a few individuals, notwithstanding the needs of the masses, is unfair and unjust, and that conversely absolute equality would also disrupt the existence, welfare, comfort, peace and orderly life of the human race. Such being the case, the best course is therefore to seek moderation, which is for the wealthy to recognize the advantages of moderation in the acquisition of profits and to show regard for the welfare of the poor and the needy.   AB00099

In the Cause of the Blessed Beauty there is muvasat, which is higher than musavat (equality), but the difference lies in that it must be by free choice and willingness, not by compulsion, and ranks must be preserved. At the level of ranks, equality is not possible. The world is like an army which must have both commander and marshal and soldier; all cannot be commanders, nor all soldiers. Ranks must be preserved, but each, in his own station, must have comfort--not that one should have every variety and kind of bounty while another lacks even plain bread.  ABU2253

From him nothing will be taken because he needs it all. From him one-tenth is taken. Again, one needs two thousand kilos, but his income is ten thousand kilos. From him two-tenths will be taken. He needs two thousand kilos. If two thousand are taken from him he still has six thousand remaining. One has fifty thousand kilos, from him one-third is taken. One may have ten thousand kilos expenses, but has one hundred thousand kilos income. One-half is taken. The greater the income, the greater is the ratio (of taxation).   ABU1216

Although the body politic is one family yet because of lack of harmonious relations some members are comfortable and some in direst misery...Therefore a law must be given to this family by means of which all the members of this family will enjoy equal well-being and happiness.  ABU0042

the wealthy should not deprive the poor of their wealth   BH04200

"because he divided all his estate between himself and his farmers."  ABU2934

However, praise be to God, wealth and riches did not prevent you from entering the Kingdom of God.   AB05888

Among them is justice and equality, nay rather, the voluntary sharing by the wealthy with the poor, not through force and coercion.  AB01534

All nations must become socialistic in spirit. People must not be forced by circumstances to help the poor. They must give aid willingly.   ABU3190

Economy is the foundation of human prosperity. The spendthrift is always in trouble. Prodigality on the part of any person is an unpardonable sin.  ABU1198

in the new Cause, equality is voluntary, meaning the wealthy, great ones and princes should contribute to the poor with perfect joy and contentment   AB05171

executing new and just laws which will regulate all the economic conditions, so that there will not be the extremes, the very rich nor the very poor  ABU0124

In every quarter they have elaborate buildings for their own pleasure and entertainment, yet they leave the poor in such a state of hardship and melancholy   ABU3000

Though you may be poor here, you are rich in the treasures of the Kingdom. I am the Servant of the poor. Remember how His Holiness Jesus said: 'Blessed are the poor!'   ABU3174

Ranks must be preserved, but each, in his own station, must have comfort--not that one should have every variety and kind of bounty while another lacks even plain bread.  ABU2253

the adjustment of the economic condition of all people so that if a rich man enjoys honor and affluence, the poor man may also have a mat to lie on and a house to dwell in   ABU2221

To one who spoke of the people's desire to possess the land, and of the strong under-current of rebellion on the part of the labouring classes... The rich must wish to give!  ABU3036

Relief must be brought to the toiling masses. Otherwise, if these ills are allowed to become chronic, their cure will be difficult and they will precipitate a great revolution.  ABU1663

That loving Lord can make every weak one powerful and every poor one wealthy and abundantly prosperous, unless divine wisdom prevents it and the order of the realm would be disrupted.  AB12612

Tell the socialists that sharing of property and land in this mortal world is the source of strife and warfare but sharing and inheritance in the Kingdom is the cause of love and unity.   ABU2832

"It will not be possible in the future for men to amass great fortunes by the labor of others. The rich will willingly divide. They will come to this gradually, naturally, by their own volition."  ABU3026

Regarding the economic questions between the capitalists and laborers that you wrote about - what harm is there in discussing it in Green Acre? When I was in America, I gave several talks on this issue.  AB05128

How poor and needy they are! It is necessary for the directors of companies and the owners of factories to allot a certain share, however small it may be, to their laborers so that their condition may be improved  ABU3120

On the one hand you have wealth, and great luxury; on the other hand men and women are living in the extremities of hunger and want. This great contrast of life is one of the blots on the civilization of this enlightened age.   ABU2299

How poor are they [labourers on ship], and how hard they toil! The presidents of factories and other operations must allocate a share [of the profits] for the workers in their companies, so that these poor souls may know some comfort.  ABU3748

Here there was a very poor boy who came to assist us in unloading, bringing to us water etc. At night I gave him a full dish of Polou and meat. I watched him eat. He was enjoying it very much. It was as though he had never eaten Polou.  ABU2659

A group of very hungry poor people came to me and made a request. I directed them to a grocery store that had all kinds of food available. I told them, "Storm this shop, take whatever is there, eat it and take it away - I will take responsibility for it."   ABU2571

Certain regulations are revealed which insure the welfare and well-being of all humanity. Just as the rich man enjoys his rest and his pleasures surrounded by luxuries, the poor man must likewise have a home, be provided with sustenance, and not be in want.  AB11089

Furthermore, during these days the wealthy must show great consideration for the poor, so that all may be joyful, and joy and delight not be confined to the wealthy alone. Both poor and wealthy should be in the same state and enjoy the same kind of festivity.  ABU0991

In future a manufacturer will not be allowed to leave all his property to his own family. A law will be made something like this--that he must leave one-quarter only of his property to his family, and the other three-quarters must go to the factory workers who have created his wealth.  ABU3325

Of course they are obliged to take whatever salary is given them. For example the motorman of Alexandria receives ten dollars a month. Now how can a young man with a wife and children live on such a low wage? Whenever I gave them 25c they were so happy they did not know how to thank me, but the Company is making extraordinary profits.  ABU0606

The Capitalists must be kind toward the Workers and treat them with justice and fairness; and they should appreciate the value of their labour; for labourers are serving the Capitalists. In the same way labourers ought to be pleased and grateful to the Capitalists; for their means of subsistance and comfort depend upon the help of Capitalists.   AB04851

When we look at the poor of humanity, we behold a world of brothers. All are the sheep of God. God is the real shepherd. This poor have been the cause of the freedom of the world of humanity. The poor have been the cause of the upbuilding of the country: the poor have ever labored for the world's production: The morals of the poor have ever been above those of the rich.  ABU0933

His seventh teaching is equality of human rights and adjustment of means of livelihood. All humanity must share in happiness and comfort - if the wealthy have magnificent palaces, the poor should at least have humble dwellings; if the rich have ultimate wealth, the poor should have basic necessities. However, differences in degrees must be preserved as all cannot be equal.  ABU0056

The reality of this matter is that it is required by God's universal system in this infinite universe that both rich and poor exist. If all became rich, the system of existence would be disrupted, and if all became poor, the connection between beings would be severed. Thus this poverty and wealth are requirements of the chain of beings and the firm relationships between existences.  AB00793

On such feast days the rich members of a community must spread large feasts for the unfortunate ones and contribute toward the maintenance of charitable, educational and philanthropic foundations - thus the spirit of holiday and merry-making may be shared by all, and not only by the well to do. On such days the wealthy as well as the indigent must become mirthful, lively and joyous.  ABU0731

The poor have ever been the cause of the freedom of the world of humanity; the poor have ever been the cause of the upbuilding of the country; the poor have ever labored for the world's production; the morals of the poor have ever been above those of the rich; the poor are ever nearer to the threshold of God; the humanitarianism of the poor has ever been more acceptable at the threshold of God.   ABU0656

In every village there must be founded a general storehouse which shall be the general or universal storehouse which shall have a number of revenues...All these revenues will be collected in this storehouse...A certain farmer whose expenses run to $10,000 and whose income is only $5,000, he has necessary expenses; from this storehouse $5,000 will be directed to him, so that he will not be in need.   ABU0034


The civilizations of the past have all been founded upon the enslavement of mankind and the poor working class has suffered every oppression for the sake of the enrichment of the few. This limited wealthy class has alone had the privilege of developing individuality. The down trodden worker after laboring long hours each day, has not had sufficient mental capacity at the conclusion of his task to do anything but eat and sleep.  ABU3667

When one is physically destitute, spiritual thoughts are more likely. Poverty is a stimulus toward God. Each one of you must have great consideration for the poor and render them assistance. Organize in an effort to help them and prevent increase of poverty. The greatest means for prevention is that whereby the laws of the community will be so framed and enacted that it will not be possible for a few to be millionaires and many destitute.  ABU0437

"Indeed, sound views regarding the comfort of the human world were observed therein. In brief, among the teachings of Baha'u'llah is beneficence, and this is greater than equality. Equality is something forced whereas beneficence is voluntary...And beneficence is voluntary goodness, which means that the wealthy should show beneficence to the poor - that is, give to the poor, but of their own free will, not that the poor should compel the wealthy."  AB03273

The solution begins with the village, and when the village is reconstructed, then the cities will be also. The idea is this, that in each village will be erected a store-house. In the language of Religion it is called the House of Finance. That is a universal store-house, which is commenced in the village. Its administration is through a committee of the wise ones of the community, and with the approval of that committee all the affairs are directed.   ABU1216

From every direction destitution has surrounded man. Our affairs are presently such that we cannot offer substantial help. "God will not burden any soul beyond its power." However the wealthy person who is not held back by his riches, provides charity to the needy and spends generously in the path of God, he is preferred to the patient poor. That is because such a wealth is the manifestation of divine benevolence and the wellspring of good to the whole of humanity.  ABU1843

Therefore, improving the means of livelihood is necessary for humanity - not that there should be equality, but rather improvement is needed... It must be improved and such laws established that all have comfort and wellbeing - neither should one be afflicted with poverty nor another have extreme wealth. For example, a wealthy person who has utmost wealth should not let another person have utmost poverty, but should take care of them so they too can be comfortable.   ABU0462

It is not meant that all will be equal, for inequality in degree and capacity is a property of nature. Necessarily there will be rich people and also those who will be in want of their livelihood, but in the aggregate community there will be equalization and readjustment of values and interests. In the future there will be no very rich nor extremely poor. There will be an equilibrium of interests, and a condition will be established which will make both rich and poor comfortable and content.   ABU0152

Now societies have formed in America and Europe called Socialists who say: Why should so many souls be in need of their daily bread while others possess such wealth that they cannot even keep track of it? This is the result of the sweat of the poor's brow. This is the outcome of the destitute workers' lives - that someone has employed a commercial trick to hoard this wealth. All should be equal. The ultimate solution is to arrange things so there is less poverty and all can live comfortably in their own rank, and wealth is not hoarded in one place.  ABU0277

Hearts must be so cemented together, love must become so dominant that the rich shall most willingly extend assistance to the poor and take steps to establish these economic adjustments permanently. If it is accomplished in this way, it will be most praiseworthy because then it will be for the sake of God and in the pathway of His service. For example, it will be as if the rich inhabitants of a city should say, "It is neither just nor lawful that we should possess great wealth while there is abject poverty in this community," and then willingly give their wealth to the poor, retaining only as much as will enable them to live comfortably.   ABU0689

Although the body-politic is one family, yet because of the lack of symmetry some members are comfortable and some are in the utmost misery; some members are satisfied and some are hungry; some are clothed with the most costly garments while some families are in need of food and shelter. Why? Because this family has not that reciprocity and symmetry needed. This household is not well arranged. Is it possible for a member of a family to be subjected to the utmost of misery and abject poverty, and for the rest of the family to be comfortable? It is impossible, unless the rest of the family be without feeling, having become spiritually atrophied, inhospitable, unkind.  ABU1527

The time must come and the work get so high that every community will have a box for charity which may be full to the brim of gold and yet a poor man will refuse to take any so long as he is able to work for himself. The work must reach such a pitch. Now, in Persia many very poor believers will not accept anything from anyone. They are true believers. They want to serve themselves and to contribute themselves. Poor believers in Persia never ask of the rich; it is not customary. But the rich will do this themselves without being asked. In Esphahan there was a famine and two brothers gave all they had, but no one asked them. But the world will reach a state wherein neither absolute poverty nor great wealth will exist.  ABU1047

The first means of income is the tithe, which must be administered as follows: If a person's average income is $500 and his necessary expenses amount to the same sum, no tithe will be collected from him. If another person has an income of $1,000 and his necessary expenses amount to $500, he will be able to pay the tithe because he will have more than he needs. If he pays the tithe there will be no decline in his standard of living. Another has an income of $5,000 and his expenses are only $1,000, so he will have to pay one and one-half times the tithe because he has an even greater amount than he needs. Another has an income of $10,000 and his necessary expenses amount to $1,000; therefore he will have to pay two times the tithe because his surplus is larger. Another person has an income of $100,000 and expenses amounting to $4,000 or $5,000; he will have to pay one-fourth of his income. Another has an income of $200 but the expenses he requires to live at subsistence level amount to $500. He spares no pains in working and laboring for his livelihood but the fruit of his labor is inadequate. He must be helped from the treasury so that he may not be in want and may live in comfort.  AB00274


Every human being has the right to live; they have a right to rest, and to a certain amount of well-being. As a rich man is able to live in his palace surrounded by luxury and the greatest comfort, so should a poor man be able to have the necessaries of life. Nobody should die of hunger; everybody should have sufficient clothing.  ABU0091

The essence of the Baha'i economic principles is that excessive wealth should not be accumulated beyond necessity, like the famous Morgan who had 300 million in wealth yet day and night had no peace or comfort from divine bounties and consumed nothing more than a simple soup. This wealth was a calamity for him, not a source of comfort.   AB00796
Thus far there has not been a just distribution of rewards. The few have had more than their share. The soldiers have been neglected. Their rights must be safeguarded.  ABU3764
 
