
"Yes, in the path of the Blessed Beauty one must drink heartily from the overflowing cup of difficulties and afflictions in order to experience its consummate intoxicating effect. One type of adversity only does not have the same effect; it does not bestow that inebriating pleasure. Wines of diverse flavours must be consumed in this divine banquet, until one is utterly intoxicated." He uttered these words with such joy and ardour that every atom of our beings soared with a sense of ecstasy and rapture. Then He added, "But you have never attended a drinking party. To get completely drunk and ultimately lose all sense of himself, a drinker mixes his drinks. For instance, in one round they drink wine; in the following round they drink araq; this is then followed by a round of cognac, then by rounds of rum, whisky and champagne until they drink themselves into a stupor. We, too, must drink various tastes from the cup of tribulation." Suddenly, in a booming voice He asked, "Jinab-i-Khan, is that not so?" ABU2047


They say that Jamshid possessed a world-reflecting cup, and some believe it was a goblet adorned with precious jewels. When one would drink from that cup, like a whale in the ocean they would surge and cry out from the joy of the wine. Although that cup brought happiness and gladness and was the cause of delight and pleasure, yet its intoxication lasted but a moment and its ocean was but a dewdrop. This divine cup, however, is brimming with the wine of inner meanings, and its intoxication is lasting and enduring.  AB09228

The intoxication of this wine is such that it will be seen. The English people are notable for their much drinking, but we hope our intoxication will surpass them. Their intoxication is from the outward wine and our intoxication is from the wine of the love of God. After they drink, giddiness will result, but our wine is a wine of everlasting exhilaration.  ABU1857

When the rapture of My verses overtaketh thee and the wine of My remembrance and utterance intoxicateth thee, turn thy face toward God   BH05110

may you ever drink from the wine of love   BH10252


Whatever wine you have in the wine-house will not cure love's fever O cup-bearer, bring forth an ocean of that spiritual wine So that this concealed, love-maddened one may cry out in ecstasy So that this divine-intoxicated one may rise above this hangover  BH01176

Make all intoxicated with the wine of alast   AB05857

bestowed upon you a share of the divine wine  AB11977

Make him intoxicated with the wine of reunion   AB06470

give me to drink of the pure wine of Thy bounty  BH08825

and wert seized by the pure wine of revelation   BH07813

Be intoxicated with the cup of the All-Merciful  AB08593

that the wine of utterance may so intoxicate him  BH07289

become intoxicated with the wine of divine favors  AB10365

the exhilaration of the divine wine may increase   AB07207

your father is intoxicated with the wine of alast  AB11709

having given me to drink of the wine of Thy bounty  BH08435

become intoxicated with the wine of inner meanings  AB07587

Therefore you must take up this cup of divine wine  AB05153

unless you drink a cup of the wine of eternal life  AB05865

become intoxicated with the wine of the love of God  AB04665

The wine is the same wine, though in a different cup  AB06697

They take up the cup and intoxicate the thirsty ones   AB11926

thou hast quaffed the choice wine of divine knowledge   BH11410

They drank a cup overflowing with the wine of Thy love  AB07737

become intoxicated and inebriated with the wine of God   AB07353

the wine of the Kawthar of Thy love hath intoxicated me   BH09406

the exhilaration of the wine of God's love was obtained   AB05107

making you intoxicated with the wine of the All-Merciful  AB05763

drunk the choice wine of Thy love from an overflowing cup   AB07161

Blessed are those souls who are intoxicated from this cup   AB06126

the cup of thy hopes is overflowing with the wine of bounty  AB06861

that he may intoxicate precious souls with the wine of love  AB10921

When thou drinkest wine, sprinkle thou a drop upon the earth  AB08204

this cup that brimmeth over with the wine of the love of God  AB05337

thou hast become intoxicated with the cup of the All-Merciful  AB11136

"make me happy by the wine of Thy love in this wonderful age"  AB06528

Thou hast become intoxicated with the wine of divine knowledge  AB09261

have become intoxicated and ecstatic from the overflowing cup   AB04908

The wine of the Covenant must have the exhilaration of sunrise  AB05880

Blessed are they who have quaffed from the wine of immortal life  BH11270

them who have drunk the water of life from the hand of the Youth  BH08035

until he drank the choice sealed wine from the hands of Thy bounty  BH09390

make Mihrban-Bahram drink the sweet wine of pardon and forgiveness   AB05234

becoming intoxicated with the wine of the grace of the All-Merciful   AB07408

You have drunk the wine of wisdom from the divine chalice and goblet  AB07470

"quaff from this cup which is overflowing with the Wine of Knowledge"   AB04600

those who have drunk the wine of revelation from the hand of Thy bounty  BH10356

hast drunk the wine of bounty from the hand of the Cup-Bearer of favor   AB07570

given thee to drink the choice wine of knowledge from the cheerful cup   AB04994

seek baptism through the fire of the love of God and the water of life.  ABU2239

Whosoever today has drunk of this eternal wine has attained eternal life  BH09301

give me to drink of the choice wine of grace from the hands of Thy bounty   BH08946

drink of the choice sealed wine... become intoxicated with this true wine   BH05051

so that thy cup may become overflowing with the wine of heaven by Guidance  AB10210

Seek that, and take up the jeweled cup and drink and share the divine wine   AB07354

that dear one is intoxicated from the overflowing cup of the wine of grace   AB11912

hath given them to drink of the wine of radiance and the sweet crystal water   BH10241

Glory be upon the people of Baha who have drunk, in My Name, the Sealed Wine   BH10185

drank the wine of the love of God from the hand of the Cup-bearer of guidance   AB07028

and may drink only from the wine of Thy grace from the hands of Thy attraction   BH05799

bring forth the cup of Jamshid and bestow a new measure! Drink the wine of love  AB10890

This is Your faithful servant who has drunk the choice wine from an elegant cup  AB07062

Grant this fallen servant eternal joy from the prepared wine of Your wine-house  AB07307

become intoxicated from the pure cup and be a wine-bibber in the tavern of love   AB02887

filled for thee the cup of bounty and gave thee to drink the pure wine of fidelity  AB05408

O people! Drink of the choice wine of the All-Glorious before the great cry is raised  BH03976

save those souls who quaffed the wine of inner meanings from the hand of divine bounty  BH10556

become intoxicated by His musk-scented breeze...drunk from His heart-attracting stream  AB06821

The Cause is the cup, teaching is the ruby wine with which the souls are intoxicated.   ABU2784

He hath made thee drink from a cup overflowing with the wine of His love in the world.   AB05391

Take thou the chalice in My Name, then drink therefrom through My wondrous remembrance.   BH09329

His clear wine overflows in the fountain of a heart which is consumed by the love of God  AB09020

You would take up the divine cup and become intoxicated with the wine of inner meanings   AB03208

ye have attained unto the choice wine of revelation which hath flowed from the Pen of God  BH09014

Well is it with thee for having drunk the Choice Wine sealed with My Self-Subsisting Name  BH07990

Well is it with thee to have this cup which overfloweth with the wine of the love of God.  AB08591

Thus have We given thee the choice wine of utterance - drink thou in the name of thy Lord   BH07767

Make them senseless from the cup of certitude and intoxicated from the wine of explanation  AB07199

Thou hast drunk from the Salsabil of grace and become intoxicated with the wine of favors.  AB07488

"Behold how the wine is passed round!" ... "The cup of His favours doth brim and o'erflow"  AB06483

Man should be intoxicated with the wine of Knowledge and drink from the Chalice of Wisdom.  ABU3394

With complete detachment, take and drink the sealed wine in the name of the Self-Subsisting.  BH03291

from the hand of the pure Wine-Bearer you would drink of the cup whose mixture is of camphor  AB08059

Thou hast drunk from the hand of the bounty of My Name, the Self-Subsisting, the sealed wine   BH09179

You turned away from the wine of delusion and became intoxicated with the choice sealed wine   AB05545

Let them pass around the cup of love and drink and serve the wine of eternal gladness and joy  AB01612

Drink thou the choice wine of life from the Kawthar of thy Lord's utterance, the All-Merciful.  BH06250

and hast partaken of the sealed wine, with a single drop of which none in existence can compare   BH06080

hath exhilarated thee from the Cup which is overflowing with the choice Wine of the Love of God   AB07044

you have found the intoxication of the wine of guidance and attained the utmost joy and delight   AB07434

"I am thirsty for the Water of Reality and longing for intoxication with the Wine of Knowledge"   AB04222

let me drink from the cup of the pure ones until I become intoxicated with the wine of mysteries  AB02489

and gave them to drink of the wine of bounty until they became intoxicated with the sweet nectar  AB00443

This true wine is the portion of the free in spirit, not the share of those lost in idle fancies.  BH10196

From the wine of divine love in this luminous morn... who have quaffed the wine of steadfastness   BH05385

when thou hast drunk the choice wine which hath flowed from the Pen of thy Lord, the All-Merciful   BH07480

Observe how Abdul-Baha is intoxicated with the wine of love for the servants of the Beauty of Abha  AB05714

Now that peerless friend has, praise be to God, become intoxicated with the wine of the divine cup   AB04838

Ask God that you may become intoxicated with this wine and become a wine-worshipper in this tavern.  AB02713

I ask God to increase thy intoxication with this wine and gladden thy spirit with this great gospel.  AB09010

From the cup of the wine of love for the Most Great Name thou hast become intoxicated and enchanted   AB07525

Therefore, He poured a drop of that wine into your cup so that you might find perpetual intoxication  AB04738

this cup overflowing with the choice wine of God's grace, dripping with the pure water of God's gifts  AB06936

take hold of My Choice Wine that hath been sealed. Then drink thereof in My Name, the Self-Subsisting.   BH07256

You drink aged wine in the tavern of the love of God, while I am in the winehouse of servitude to Baha   AB05687

"become intoxicated from that wine and drunk from that cup which overflowed with the wine of God's gift"  AB05155

The one who became the wine-seller in this tavern became intoxicated and bewildered by these mysteries.   AB03637

"God willing, thou shalt partake of the sealed wine and receive thy portion from the ocean of knowledge"   BH06165

Fill the cup of purity with the wine of faithfulness, become intoxicated with the love of the mighty Lord  AB09580

The intoxication of that wine brings another passion to the head and manifests another joy in the heart.   AB04296

You would rend your collar and take up the wine-flask in hand, and laughing and joyous would take delight   AB06913

let us drink from the chalice and taste the wine of the Supreme Concourse, make us intoxicated and enraptured  AB06776

May this cup of wine be sweet to you! This wine is the handiwork of that veiled Beloved  AB02766

When thou hast quaffed the choice wine of utterance from the cup of the bounty of thy Lord, the Most Merciful   BH08666

given to drink the crimson wine unto them that have recognized the unity of God from among the people of Baha   BH07642

The loved ones of Nayriz who, praise be to God, are brimming and overflowing with the wine of the love of God   AB02195

It is the spirit and sweet fragrance and the intoxication of the pure wine from the wine-cellar of the Beloved   AB07122

Become intoxicated from the divine cup and become unconscious and wine-worshipping from the wine of "Am I not?"   AB07436

didst make us drunk from the cup of the Covenant... make souls drunk and bewildered with the wine of the Covenant   AB02010

O joy to the one who in this time hath drunk the cup of everlasting life from the hand of the Cup-bearer of grace!   AB04537

"Then intoxicate me with the wine of Thy love, so that I may attain to success and prosperity in this dawn of Light"   AB04531

Come back and proffer a chalice to this thirsty cup-bearer; To this evanescent soul offer the vessel of immortal life.  BH05338

the exhilaration of this wine brings endless joy, and the delight of this heavenly food remains forever on the palate   AB05513

"O Cupbearer, bring forth an ocean of that spiritual wine, That this hidden, love-maddened one may cry out in ecstasy"   BH03843

Blessed is he in that he drank the choice wine of utterance from the hand of the bounty of his Lord, the Most Merciful.  BH02648

Happy are ye who are intoxicated from the cup of His favor! Happy are ye who worship the wine in the tavern of His love!  AB05870

"My servants there who have quaffed the wine of Mine utterance and attained unto the fragrance of My wondrous knowledge"   BH05122

drunk the choice wine of My favors and the Kawthar of My bounties and tasted the sweetness of My remembrance and My words   BH09885

Verily they who have quaffed the most pure wine are in My greatest vision - to this doth the Lord of destiny bear witness.  BH03533

Joy be unto thee for having drunk the wine of everlasting life from the hands of the bounty of thy Lord, the Most Merciful.   BH11055

give Thy loved ones and their children to drink from the wine of nearness to Thee and the choice wine of reunion with Thee.   BH08857

The divine who hath seized and quaffed the most holy Wine, in the name of the sovereign Ordainer, is as an eye unto the world.  BH11367

'Tis not the soul-nourishing wine, Behold, this is but the cup; 'Tis not the ruby chalice this, The wine but casts its shadow.  AB07490

the Divine Cup-bearer is bestowing such a cup of joy that will bring you gladness and delight...drink deeply of that cup of joy  AB10919

and to intoxicate you with the wine of the love of God so that you may cause your hearers to dance, to be joyful and to exult.   AB04000

The wine of love for the Peerless Lord and the cup of knowledge of the eternal Sovereign suffices for all who dwell in the realm  BH11251

hath begun to drink the wine of divine favors in the tavern of grace. It hath become intoxicated with the cup of the love of God  AB09413

But be not deceived - this wine is spirit-giving, not hangover-inducing. It increases the search and brings perpetual awareness.   BH10102

Blessed art thou for having drunk the choice wine of revelation and attained unto the love of God, the Mighty, the Praiseworthy.   BH03254

Cause them to drink from the cup of the wine of the Morn of Eternity and intoxicate them with the goblet of everlasting felicity.  AB08451

Ye hold in your hands the goblet of supreme guidance and are inebriated with the crimson wine of the love of the Blessed Beauty.   AB07390

Drink that Most Glorious cup / Surge forth moment by moment like the sea / Make the world [entranced] / Behold the pure wine cup   AB04402

has begun to drink the wine of grace in the wine-house of divine favors. It has become intoxicated with the cup of the love of God  AB09413

Take thou the chalice of My loving-kindness from the hand of My bounty, then drink therefrom in My Name, the Mighty, the Wondrous.   BH11442

The one drunk with wine awakens from the west wind, But the one drunk with Truth awakens not even from the trumpet of resurrection.  BH11878

Your letter brought joy, for it was a cup brimming with the wine of recognition of the Lord...intoxicated with the wine of gladness  AB09355

thou hast drunk the cup of guidance from the hand of the Cup-bearer of bounty and become intoxicated with the wine of the love of God  AB04841

until the melody and song and the music of harp and drum and the intoxicated inclinations manifest the effect of nightly wine-drinking  AB01342

This is a Book unto My servant Javad, who was attracted by the wine of utterance - that is, heard the Call and ran forward intoxicated.  BH06783

joy be to all those who sway in ecstasy from the pure wine that hath flowed and overflowed and surged in the tavern of the love of God   AB06862

Take thou a cup of My choice-sealed wine, then drink thereof in My Name, the Self-Subsisting. Verily it will draw thee nigh unto thy Lord  BH10972

Therefore ye who are intoxicated with this wine and are worshippers in this tavern, become wholly inebriated and raise melodies and songs  AB08344

How fortunate thou art for thou hast become inebriated with the cup of the Love of God and intoxicated with the wine of divine bestowals.  AB08556

O thou who art intoxicated by the wine of God's love! The morning draught is passed around and the eternal wine of the All-Glorious is...  AB07225

in the gathering the drinking of rose wine took hold! The birds of the meadow became intoxicated, the pheasants became wine-worshippers!   AB05157

Quaff ye of the Cup of Bounty the wine of immortality, despite them that have repudiated God, the Lord of names and Maker of the heavens.   BH06547

This wine hath fermented in the wine-cellar of the Lord God. Ho! Ho! Consider it not cheap - know thou its worth and value its excellence.  AB09380

The divine wine must be drunk pure, and may you too receive a portion from this boundless ocean and take a share from this limitless sea.   AB04568

may you hold the overflowing cup with the Wine of the Love of God, offering it to all and exhilarating everyone with its spiritual nectar   AB05477

The spiritual wine of oneness is prepared and the Bearer of the eternal countenance is the Cup-Bearer - take and drink, and give to drink!   BH11015

Drink from the goblet of wine from the wine-cellar of the All-Merciful...become intoxicated with the wine of love for the celestial Beloved  AB10979

In His right hand is a chalice of the Kawthar of immortality and He saith: Come and drink, O people of Baha, and be not of the patient ones.  BH03276

O Cupbearer of mysteries, pour One draught of rosy wine with Hu Hu! That we may quicken lifeless forms With mighty streams divine with Hu Hu!  BH11895

Strive that perchance thou mayest drink of the everlasting Kawthar from the hand of the spiritual Cup-bearer and attain unto the true Friend.   BH10193

to give thee to drink an overflowing cup from the choice wine of the love of God, until the intoxication of that wine may so prevail upon thee  AB06430

Give Isfandiyar Surush a cup of the wine of forgiveness to drink, and make Zarbanu Nush intoxicated and bewildered from the cup of the Covenant.  AB06119

That cup is divine glad-tidings and that wine the breaths of the All-Merciful. Sacrifice a hundred thousand cups for a single drop of that wine   AB02871

Implore God, therefore, that thou mayest drink from this cup of the divine and mystic wine, and become satisfied with this crystal spring of life.  AB08600

From the hand of the Cup-bearer of eternity thou hast drunk the chalice of fidelity, and at the feast of "Am I not?" thou hast become inebriated.   AB07538

I am falling and rising in Your path, intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant...becoming intoxicated and bewildered from the cup of the Covenant  AB02411

Thou art intoxicated with the wine from the divine tavern of Abha and filled with ecstasy from the overflowing cup of the Beloved of the horizons.   AB07316

They whom the wine of true knowledge hath intoxicated - these are they whom neither veils can hinder nor the might of those who have disbelieved in God  BH08909

When the wine of utterance is nurtured in the wine-cellar of the love of God, what a pleasant intoxication it has and what joy and delight it stirs up!  AB07244

Blessed is he who hath attained unto the days of God and hath drunk the choice wine from this cup which calleth out saying: "Joy be to them that drink!"   BH08582

The jugs of wine have fermented, Reason and intellect have gone mad; The lethal poison, as soon as God's mystic cup to the brim was filled, was quaffed.   BH04998

This divine nectar hath not been, nor shall be, the portion of every soul. This wine is befitting only to enduring souls and detached hearts, and ever shall be.  BH06971

Now 'cause of Thee I am drunk, o ruby Wine. If Thou desirest to show forth loving-kindness, give me a chalice. I yearn for the cup, and Thou art the Divine Fount.  BH03242

The Fair-cheeked Cupbearer of the Covenant hath adorned a blessed feast and is offering the wine of firmness and steadfastness in servitude at His Most Holy Threshold  AB09983

through the bounty of guidance, you have illumined a face like unto the radiant moon, and filled the cup of your heart to overflowing with the wine of the love of God.  AB07939

be the cup-bearer of this immortal wine. This is the most great bounty which hath flowed forth from the ancient ocean. Drink thou therefrom and be of the thankful ones.   BH03973

This servant who is intoxicated with the brimming cup of Thy love, and who, at the feast of longing, with goblet in hand, yearns for Thy path and seeks Thy beauteous face  AB08396

He filled the cup of love to overflowing and made you restless from the potency of the wine of inner meanings...and the spirit became intoxicated with the wine of truth.   AB07516

And when you have partaken of the chalices and the warmth of the wine of your Lord's knowledge has seized you, then greet the dawn, arise amidst the concourse of the earth  BH11839

"Take up the cup of bounty at the glad-tidings of the Most Great Unity and drink the wine of joy. Become intoxicated, become enraptured, become exhilarated, become gladdened."  AB03106

one is inebriated from the overflowing divine cup, while another is drunk and proud from the wine of vanity. Some are dancing and rejoicing from the eternal wine of recognition  AB05695

The Cup-Bearer of 'Ama offers the goblet of the wine of faithfulness with radiant light, that ye may enter, intoxicated, into the gathering of love and the assembly of affection  BH10821

O Muhammad-'Ali! In the name of the All-Knowing, the One, may thou drink of the sealed wine which hath been unsealed by the Finger of the Self-Subsisting, and receive thy portion.  BH08092

drink of the wine of His presence... the divine cup-bearers have opened the doors of the eternal wine-cellar... O fallen ones still dizzy from wine, this is the surging of the wine   BH03078

As much as thou canst, drink of this wine and become inebriated from this cup, for it increaseth reason and understanding, bringeth no hangover, and its exhilaration is everlasting.  AB11186

that one who is intoxicated with the wine of love so bewildered and enchanted by the fragrances of His love that he may gallop unveiled and unhindered in the field of the love of God  AB04818

thou hast taken hold of the cup that brimmeth with mysteries, and moved that assemblage to rapture and ecstasy as thou thyself dancest with joy. Drink thou, drink with healthy relish!  AB12008

We have taken the mystic wine from the hand of power, which had been sealed from all eternity. When We broke its seal, the fragrance of the Beloved was diffused between earth and heaven.   BH05447

Therefore, you who have received a share and portion from this abundant bounty and found a full measure of this great grace must, like wine-loving cupbearers, become intoxicated and enchanted  AB03157

Soon he will take in hand the overflowing cup of the love of God, and intoxicated in the gathering of the All-Merciful, will become the cupbearer of the wine of the primordial covenant and a wine-lover   AB05400

Although I know that wheresoever thou art, and by whatsoever cup inebriated, thou hast taken thy repose beside a flask of the wine of inner meaning, and art intoxicated by the vintage of the love of God  AB02981

Now His loved ones also receive a share and portion from His wine-house of tribulation. When you drink the wine, sprinkle a drop upon the earth, for the earth has a share from the cup of the noble ones.   AB06927

Therefore turn, with a heart throbbing and tears flowing, unto the Beauty of El-ABHA, so that thou obtaineth the great favor and drinketh from that wine, and tasteth the fruits of the Paradise of El-ABHA.  AB09063

Drink the wine of divine love with the countenance of the holy, eternal Beauty's manifestation... intoxicated and bewildered by the exhilaration and rapture of the wine from the vessels of divine knowledge  BH01905

O thou who art intoxicated with the wine of the love of the All-Merciful! Pass round the cup of attraction in the gathering of detachment, and make the loved ones drunk with the choice wine of divine election  AB12805

Take up the cup of the Covenant and become intoxicated at this divine feast. The wine is ready, and in this celebration drink until you become unconscious, passionate, ecstatic and hear the call of the angel   AB07388

In her right hand she held a goblet of crimson wine. And she bore round cups of the wine of immortality. Then the fountain of living waters gushed forth from her lips, uttering words of admonition and rebuke.   BH01966

giveth drink to the unitarians from the wine that doth kindle and shine and whose color is resplendent. From it arose heat in contingent being and appeared the fire of attraction in the lofty and glorious Tree.  BH02407

from the wine of the love of the Lord they, like an overflowing cup, forget forgetfulness and consider silence as unconsciousness, count forgetting as disobedience, and call occupation with aught else sheer madness   AB11704

The cup of the material world is followed by pain, but the Divine cup, the cup of the Love of God, has an everlasting intoxication, and pain follows it not. Happy are those who are intoxicated with this intoxication!  ABU1320

From the beginning of the dawn of oneness, that land has been illumined, and at all times in the feast of that region, the cup of the love of God circulates and the wine of the knowledge of God is drunk with delight.   AB04371

As the love of God hath the utmost penetration in thy heart, the ring-stone bearing the strong wine, for capacity is great and the power of the wine is intense. Therefore, there wilt not remain any power or resistance.   AB02173

"for having drunk a brimming goblet overflowing with the wine of the love of God" ... "Lord! Give me to drink of that wine and grant me the cup of Thy bounty which is the intoxication of those pure, distinguished and noble ones"  AB01153

Therefore, take up the laughing cup of mystic knowledge and like the weeping flagon, raise a most wondrous melody in this garden of the All-Merciful, that thou mayest become a sweet-singing parrot, tasting sugar again and again.  AB11741

Now that the Manifestor of Sinai...has become the Cup-bearer at the feast of contingent being, and has opened the doors of the divine tavern to the people of the world, and freely offered the delectable wine of divine manifestation   AB06382

O thou who art intoxicated with the wine of the Covenant! ... Therefore, in gratitude for this heavenly bestowal, the spiritual friends must ever become intoxicated from the cup of bounty and become wine-bearers in the divine tavern.   AB05699

now drink from the cup of love for the Ancient Beauty, that the greatest elixir of thy desire and hope may penetrate the copper of thy conditions and affairs, turning black copper into red gold as the divine alchemy manifests its power  AB06110

Put aside the cups of creation and take this luminous cup in the name of thy Lord, the Most Glorious, then drink from it the most pure wine once again. Thus doth thy Lord command thee as He sitteth upon the throne with manifest sovereignty.  BH11826

The wine of the vineyard and the pleasant beverage yield but a momentary exhilaration, and its turbulent sea is but a dewdrop. The divine wine, however, imparteth eternal joy and delight, and its brimming, triumph-laden chalice is overflowing.  AB08755

be sustained by the wine of contentment, and drink from the Salsabil of oneness, that thou mayest witness the vastness of divine mercy and become aware of the lights of the Beauty of the All-Glorious, until thou art intoxicated with the wine of reunion  BH02034

Blessed art thou for this cup brimming with the wine of God's love. Happy art thou for this heavenly table descended from on high. By thy life! This is indeed a table for the righteous and a wine that sways the limbs and is sanctified beyond description.  AB01152

The goblet of wine is overflowing and the crystal decanter weeps with joy. The divine radiance encompasses all, and the fame of the Lord has spread throughout East and West, vast and mind-quickening. You who are intoxicated with the wine of mystery - arise!  AB08935

Crystal goblets are in the hand of the Cupbearer of eternity and ruby cups in the hand of the Virgin Countenance, while from every direction they seek crimson wine and incomparable, sweet, pure water - to see who shall receive a portion and who shall gain a share  BH03204

They who have attained unto the days of God and have quaffed the choice wine of acceptance - these are indeed an honored people. We give the world to drink of the wine of remembrance, both secretly and openly. Blessed is he who has turned and attained unto this sealed nectar.   BH06059

he holds a cup full of the knowledge of God in his right hand and wishes to give the seekers to drink of this wine, so that they may, perchance, be exhilarated with this cup, which is overflowing with the signs of God...thou wilt partake of this wine which refreshes hearts and souls  AB10787

On the path of truth one must become intoxicated from this brimming cup. The goblet is in hand, one has become a wine-worshipper. Any wild donkey can become tipsy from grape wine, but if someone finds joy and happiness from this wine of faithfulness, they have accomplished something  AB03734

This Wine of unity hath another Wine-Giver, and its intoxication another quality. That diminisheth consciousness, while this increaseth it. That bringeth extinction, while this bestoweth existence. That is followed by headache, while this is accompanied by love for the Lord of creation.  BH06096

Hearken, O My loved ones, unto the melody of grandeur, then drink ye of the water of everlasting life. We have forbidden the people of hatred from this crimson cup from the hand of the All-Glorious Cup-bearer. Thus hath the matter been decreed by your Lord, the Mighty, the All-Praised.   BH05065

His honor Khan is not content with this brief letter and says "How can these wines suffice for our intoxication?" I say, O calculating man, this is the wine from the wine-cellar of the Covenant and its cup-bearer is the fingers of 'Abdu'l-Baha - one drop brings eternal intoxication and everlasting joy.   AB04072

Some people are drunk and joyous from the wine of grapes, yet in the morning they are hung over and sluggish. Some are intoxicated with the wine of pride, but in the end they are harmed and deprived. Others are in ecstasy from the pure wine of the love of God and in joy from the wine of the knowledge of God.  AB05774

The entire text uses wine and intoxication as symbols of spiritual transformation, particularly: "from the wine prepared in Bahram's tavern, give the friends to drink until they become intoxicated" and "Take your bed and pillow and silk and perfumed satin garments to the celestial wine-sellers, sell them for wine"  AB08288

Say: By God! The wine mentioned in the Qur'an is My love, and the Kawthar is My remembrance, and the milk is that which is concealed within My words, and the honey is My sweetest utterance, the mighty, the inaccessible. Say: O people of vain desires! That wine increaseth heedlessness, while this wine bestoweth life everlasting.   BH00871

Until one becomes intoxicated with the wine of divine knowledge, one will not attain eternal happiness nor reach everlasting life. I beseech God that you may become intoxicated from this cup and attain such joy and delight that you may sacrifice your soul for the servants of God. This is the eternal happiness of the human world.  AB03919

The wine cup can bestow temporary delight and ephemeral ecstasy, but then it causeth drowsiness and eventually leadeth to an aching head. But he who hath been intoxicated by the divine wine will not suffer drowsiness nor experience such discomforts. Nay, he will be alert and wakeful; his discernment will increase, as will his understanding.  AB08753

The wine cup can bestow temporary delight, ephemeral ecstasy, but then it causeth drowsiness, and eventually leadeth to an aching head. But he who hath been inebriated by the wine of the Divine Call will not suffer drowsiness nor experience such discomforts. Nay, he will be alert and wakeful; his discernment will increase, as will his understanding.  AB08753

Praise befitteth and beseemeth my Beloved Who, with the finger of might, hath unsealed the seal of the Choice Wine and, with the hands of bounty, hath bestowed it upon all peoples. Whosoever turned unto it, partook thereof and attained unto the infinite divine bounties, and whosoever turned away remained, in truth, deprived of the fruit of existence.   BH00736

You must become intoxicated with the wine of spiritual love. When one is intoxicated with the material wine, it sometimes increases the love in the heart, but this love does not last; the next day it is entirely gone. But the intense love created from the wine of the Holy Spirit intoxicates the heart and the effect is eternal, growing stronger each day.  ABU1929

That is, you must drink that divine wine pure and unmixed; do not mix it with anything else. And if you wish to mix it, do not go beyond the water from the beloved's mouth, for that would be the essence of tyranny. Now you too should partake of this spiritual wine in its pure form - its potency is stronger, its sweetness greater, and its exhilaration more powerful.  AB09849

For that divine wine is the ancient bounty and the wondrous revelation and the new spirit of the Ever-Living, All-Powerful Lord that is manifest in this mighty Cycle. For that goblet has come round, and that flagon is in the hand of the Cup-bearer, and that chalice is brimming, and that tavern has reopened, and that wine-vault has begun to flow, and those wine-lovers have begun to cry out.   AB02336


Take thou the cup which hath appeared in the form of the Word and hath been filled with the Kawthar of thy Lord's knowledge, the Most High, the Most Great. Then drink thereof in My Name and pass it among the concourse of lovers, that all may be attracted by this wondrous, this mighty Kawthar. Whosoever drinketh but a drop thereof shall never die, but shall endure as long as his Lord, the Mighty, the Eternal, the All-Wise, endureth.   BH00822

O my Persian friend! Siyavash drank the cup of destruction in exile, while you, in the divine homeland, in the Merciful gathering and the heavenly feast, have drunk deeply of the eternal wine. How blessed you are! May the soul of every wine-drinker be sacrificed for you, for you have drunk such a wondrous wine! This wine has been brought to a boil in the wine-cellar of the Lord God - hey hey! Do not consider it cheap - know its price and recognize its value!  AB09380

Blessed is he who has taken the cup of eternity in My Most Glorious Name, drinking at times in My Name, the Most Exalted, the Most High, then again in My Name, the Most High, the All-Wise, and yet again in My Name by which the pavilion of names was rent asunder, then once more in My Name, the All-Forgiving, the Most Merciful, and again in My Name through which all things have spoken in remembrance of Me, and yet again in My Name, the Supreme, the Mighty, the Peerless.   BH01272

The wine of the vineyard and the pleasant beverage yield but a momentary exhilaration, and its turbulent sea is but a dewdrop. The divine wine, however, imparteth eternal joy and delight, and its brimming, triumph-laden chalice is overflowing. Should anyone partake of a drop of this divine wine, he will be roused from unconsciousness to consciousness, and will be delivered from the stupor of heedlessness and the intoxication of ignorance and error. Therefore, one must seek this everlasting nectar and not the bitter, perishable water.  AB08755

The Cup of Jamshid hath come round in the feast of the Covenant, and the chalice of the pledge circuleth in the gathering of true and faithful friends. Take, then, this cup in hand and, intoxicated, enter the feast of "Am I not?" Make those who seek the countenance of the Peerless Beloved drunk with this wine in this cup in the rose garden of flowers and tulips, that all may enter the circle of divine lovers, clapping their hands and dancing. How blessed the ardent soul who becometh intoxicated and entranced from this wine-house, and how enduring the spirit that surgeth and welleth up from this wine!  AB08028

Its chalice is the primal, timeless Cup of Alast; its wine is the crimson Wine of the Supreme Covenant; its Cupbearer is the Abha Beauty. Its cup is brimming over, its wine most choice, and its Cupbearer the Rose-cheeked Beauty. Be ye intoxicated! Be ye wine-worshippers! Take ye the chalice in hand! Be ye filled with fervor and rapture! This is the most pure Wine! This is the crystal Cup! This is the Resurrection! The spiritual ones are intoxicated from this Wine, and they who are filled with the divine spirit have quaffed their fill and are inebriated from this overflowing Cup with the bounteous gifts of Baha.  AB06500
