
The people of Baha must spread the divine fragrances through deeds more than words, for a single deed emanating from the essence of sanctity will promote the Cause such that its fragrant breezes will spread to all regions.  AB06272

The believers must teach the Cause not only in words but must adorn themselves with the ornaments of deeds in order that all mankind may bear testimony to this, that their aims are universal, their actions disinterested, their purposes inspiring and all-embracing   ABU0935


Love manifests its reality in deeds, not only in words -- these alone are without effect. In order that love may manifest its power there must be an object, an instrument, a motive. Water shows its power in various ways, in quenching thirst, causing seed to grow, etc. Coal expresses one of its principles in gas-light, while one of the powers of electricity is shown in the electric light.  ABU0281

But the friends must acquire the characteristics of the Daystar of the horizons and promote and teach more through deeds than words.   AB01985

Strive to conduct yourself among people such that your words become a decisive proof and your deeds evidence of love for the Brilliant Luminary.  AB06093

Then all his words and deeds will tend toward the glorification of the Cause and the promotion of the Principles   ABU2670

In previous cycles and past centuries, teaching was done through words, but in this time it is through deeds... The effect of deeds is more penetrating than the effect of words. Souls are weary of words but attentive to deeds.  ABU0993

Teaching the cause of God is not only through the tongue; it is through deeds, a good disposition, happiness of nature, kindness, sympathy, good fellowship, trustworthiness, holiness, virtue, purity of ideals and lastly, speech.  ABU2029

We must not begin with words and end in words. We must act and teach mankind with the irresistible force of example. One drop of deed is better than an ocean of words. One ounce of action is more beloved than a tone of eloquent speeches.   ABU1709

A Baha'i, in whatever city he may dwell, must become renowned for his deeds. Being a Baha'i is a matter of deeds, not words. That is why He says one must teach through deeds, for otherwise all the peoples of the world share in mere words.   ABU1667

Furthermore, the power of teaching and education is of two kinds: One is that through words humans educate souls, the other is that through deeds humans educate. It is possible to educate people through words, but greater than that is education through deeds, for deeds have more effect.  ABU0400

Real teaching is by action. Action has effect. One act is better than a thousand words. Jesus Christ says 'by their fruits' (actions) and not by their words. What is the effect of words alone? The real thing is action. Certainly. Action has made man eloquent. There is no eloquent language better than action. As long as the sun is bright, is it necessary that it should say 'I am bright?' There is no need for that.  ABU0155

Teaching the Cause of God is of two kinds: by word and by deed. I hope you will be successful in both.  ABU2471

Today befitting deeds and pleasing words are needed. Every goodly deed is in itself a teacher of the Cause.   BH02680

For the heavenly Teacher must teach through both words and deeds, and show the mighty path and straight way.  AB05731

Man can teach better through deeds than words. But when the words are the expressions of our deeds, then it will be light upon light.  ABU1935

Thus in teaching the Cause it is not sufficient to give the message, we must live it, work for it, be attracted to it, enkindle others with its fire  ABU1931

"Teaching through deeds is far more effective than through words." 'Abdu'l-Baha replied, "If both words and deeds were congruent, then it would be much better. It would be light upon light."   ABU0595

First, one may teach by deeds, then speak the word.  AB11078

"The standard is deeds, not words, as stated in the Qur'anic verse"   AB02679

Before recognition, no soul's deeds are accepted, even should they perform all the deeds of the past and future. I testify that these creatures are worshippers of idle fancies, save those whose hands have been seized by the hands of thy Lord's loving-kindness, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, and whom He hath protected through His grace.   BH01466

Act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'u'llah. Many are the people who peruse the divine teachings, but promptly forget what they have read when the time comes to act. A true Baha'i is one who acts in accordance with the blessed teachings.  ABU3745

The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived thereof, hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous deed. It behoveth every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.  BH00001


Were a man to rear in this world as many edifices as possible and worship God through every virtuous deed which God's knowledge embraceth, and attain the presence of the Lord, and were he, even to a measure less than that which is accountable before God, to bear in his heart a trace of malice towards Me, all his deeds would be reduced to naught and he would be deprived of the glances of God's favour   BB00262

For verily, if one performs no deeds from the beginning of his life to its end, but on the Day of Resurrection - the Day of Him Whom God shall make manifest - He says I am pleased with thee, that one has attained the fruit of all deeds and reached the summit of all glory.  BB00003

Today all deeds and stations depend upon the recognition of God and acceptance of Him. BH05639

Thus the tree of human existence becomes known and proven by the fruits of deeds, and all observe its acts and deeds. If they find them good and pleasant they will surely accept, and without this they will surely turn away.   BH00331

Chant the Words of God and, pondering over their meaning, transform them into actions!  AB10188

Today is the day of deeds, not words.  BH05691

deeds have more influence than words   AB05146

The deeds of man must be the cause of glory.  AB11442

Every utterance requires corresponding deeds.  BH00004

The quality of man lies in his conduct and deeds.  BH10950

it is evident that deeds must accompany words.   AB06977

"We must prove this through deed and not by mere word."  ABU3402

The example of our lives was of more value than words.   ABU2205

mere words and instruction yield no result--action is required  AB00472

And the sign of this bounty is in the deeds, behavior and words  AB10488

Faith in God consisteth not in words alone - deeds are required.  BH10657

He whose deeds do not accord with his words is not a true Baha'i.  ABU2799

Rather, what will yield fruit is your manner, conduct, deeds and words.  AB07924

Man must be known through his deeds and actions. Mere words have no weight.  ABU1094

It is not enough to wish to do good. The wish should be followed by action.   ABU3221

Guidance hath ever been given by words, and now it is given by deeds. Everyone must show forth deeds that are pure and holy, for words are the property of all alike, whereas such deeds as these belong only to Our loved ones. Strive then with heart and soul to distinguish yourselves by your deeds.  BH00113

Let all promote the Cause of God through their words, deeds, conduct and character  AB12449

These days are the days of faith and deeds, not the days of words and lip-service.  ABU1091

For this is the Radiant Century, the time when deeds must take the place of words.   ABU2952

"Conjecture cannot take the place of certainty, nor can words stand in lieu of deeds"   BH04796

Verily words cannot take the place of deeds. Hold fast unto goodly and pleasing actions  BH02296

Shun those in whom thou findest words without deeds - they are among the contemptible ones.  BH01679

so that true heart-felt love and fellowship is achieved among the friends, not merely verbal  AB04188

Claims are not completed through words alone, but are contingent and conditional upon deeds.   BH04010

Beware lest thou be of those who have cast the deeds behind their backs and clung to mere words.  BH08515

"The point of distinction among men, let them remember, is their deeds, not their beliefs or words."   ABU0612

Teaching the Cause of God is of two kinds: by word and by deed. I hope you will be successful in both.  ABU2471

You must give the message through action and deed, not alone by word. Word must be conjoined with deed.   ABU1888

Deeds take precedence over words. A goodly deed hath been and shall forever be the distinguishing feature.   BH01289

Today befitting deeds and pleasing words are needed. Every goodly deed is in itself a teacher of the Cause.   BH02680

For the heavenly Teacher must teach through both words and deeds, and show the mighty path and straight way.  AB05731

This Dispensation of the Beauty of Abha is the time of deeds, not words. The purpose is not words, but deeds!  AB00232

The mercifulness of an assembly comes through words, deeds and conduct in accordance with the teachings of God.  AB04015

Words must be followed by deeds; words without deeds are as bees that yield no honey, as trees that bear no fruit.  BH04605

It is all very well for you to say that you agree with all this, that it is good--but you must put it into practice.  ABU0653

Words are not accepted, but rather deeds performed purely for God, the One, the Almighty, the Glorious, the Most High.   BH04726

Spread the divine fragrances and to exemplify your beliefs with your conduct and your behaviour as well as your words.   AB06807

Today deeds take precedence over words. Therefore strive that praiseworthy actions may be manifested from all your limbs.  BH07836

There is a vast difference between the soul who merely reads the words of Baha'o'llah and the one who tries to live them.   ABU1726

Time and again this word has flowed from the Pen: through one word and one pure deed, the earth has transcended the heavens.  BH05703

Words must be followed by deeds. Whoso accepteth the words of the Friend is a man of deeds - otherwise a corpse is better than he.  BH01509

However, O beloved of my heart, sincerity and certitude and faith and knowledge are not perfected through words but through deeds.   BH01829

Man can teach better through deeds than words. But when the words are the expressions of our deeds, then it will be light upon light.  ABU1935

It is not only words. I would offer my life for each friend. When the time of trial comes then it will become manifest -- now it is in words.   ABU3331

The essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance of deeds; he whose words exceed his deeds, know verily his death is better than his life.  BH02183

Today is the day of deeds and not of words, and their deeds are a truthful witness and faithful testimony to their love, detachment and service.  BH11905

Thou hast said aright, that verily, Abdul-Baha looketh to deeds and not words. Even as it was said by Christ, "Ye shall know them by their fruits."  AB08353

"If you give them only words, when they put their hands into their pockets after you have gone, they will find themselves none the richer for you!"   ABU3350

Thus in teaching the Cause it is not sufficient to give the message, we must live it, work for it, be attracted to it, enkindle others with its fire  ABU1931

Do not content yourselves with words only but act according to the commandments of God. Otherwise, what use is there in being a Baha'i in word alone.  ABU2848

Although books and treatises of proofs are a means of awakening souls, an expounder is needed. Mere books of proofs will not cause complete propagation  AB04075

That which is truly spiritual must light the path to God, and must result in deeds. We cannot believe the call to be spiritual when there is no result.   ABU2285

Hold fast unto goodly deeds and follow not those who hold fast unto words rather than deeds. These, verily, are among the heedless.  BH04216

Today the friends of God must strive to remain firm in the Covenant, and this cannot be accomplished through words alone - deeds and conduct are required.  AB12213

Merit lies not with those who make verbal profession, but rather with those who act according to what the All-Merciful hath revealed in His wondrous Book.   BH05477

Beware of being satisfied with mere words! Strive for goodly conduct and be not content with utterances alone. Know that deeds are the touchstone of worth.   AB06334

Whatever a man's tongue speaketh, that let him prove by his deeds. If he claimeth to be a believer, then let him act in accordance with the precepts of the Abha Kingdom.   AB06194

Today is not the day for words, nor the time for waiting. Act ye according to the divine utterances which have dawned and appeared from the Dayspring of the Most Holy Pen.  BH10228

Deeds take precedence over words. By the Sun of Truth, this Wronged One fasts during the blessed month of Ramadan and stands in prayer and remembrance during its nights and dawns.   BH07396

Undoubtedly, a person, who is not a believer, but whose deeds and morals are good, is far better than one who claims his belief in words but, who, in actions, is a follower of satan.  ABU0791

The carpet of inner meaning and deeds hath been rolled up, and the carpet of words and utterances hath been spread out. Say: O loved ones! By the Sun of Truth, this is the Day of deeds.  BH03264

in all things - that is, in speech and conduct and deeds, in sanctification and detachment and unity and harmony, in the fear of God and righteousness - you should promote the Cause of God   AB02647

"Teaching through deeds is far more effective than through words." 'Abdu'l-Baha replied, "If both words and deeds were congruent, then it would be much better. It would be light upon light."   ABU0595

who will conduct themselves according to the teachings of the Lord God, and who through their deeds and words, their speech and conduct, will become the cause of the awakening of all creation.  AB06130

"Up to now, to believe was to acknowledge, to make a confession of faith, but in this greatest of all Causes, believing means to have praiseworthy qualities and to perform praiseworthy acts."   ABU3506

This cycle is not the cycle of words. In the Islamic cycle they would say 'There is no god but God' and that was all. This is the cycle of deeds. One must testify through deeds, not by tongue.  ABU0708

Here is a man who speaks very few words but he is working all the time and attending to all his duties; there is another man who sits down, talks continually and boasts of his past achievements.   ABU2938

The utterances of Baha'o'llah are to be translated into deeds, not words (only). Deeds are demanded by His teaching, which must thus appear transmuted into the life of this day. Words are nothing.   ABU1317

The little children must needs be made aware in their very heart and soul that "Baha'i" is not just a name but a truth. Otherwise, the mere word "Baha'i", if it yield no fruit, will come to nothing.  AB04470

There are people always in this world who deliver excellent advices and exhortations, but they do not carry them out in their own lives. I have taught the believers with deeds and not with words...   ABU1234

O friends! Words alone have not sufficed and will never suffice. You must manifest such deeds that all souls will testify that you are distinguished from others and are truly related to the Truth.   BH04730

Should a man spend his whole life engaged in worship, yet remain deprived of the attributes which are the cause of the exaltation of the Cause of God, that worship will produce no result and yield no fruit.  BH06097

Look at the deeds, what concern have you with words? A thousand loads of words about zeal, enthusiasm, magnanimity, protection and chivalry are not worth a penny, but one small deed is worth a flowing treasure.  AB01068

Today is the day of deeds. If we content ourselves with merely reciting what is in the divine scriptures, it will never yield results. Therefore we must strive with heart and soul to become successful in action.  AB01350

Today is the day for the manifestation of virtues and noble qualities. If words have no witness, they shall not attain to the station of acceptance, and the witness of words has ever been and shall ever be deeds.  BH10820

If a man does not do these things, even though he praises God and offers him a hundred thousand thanksgivings every second there will be for that man not the slightest result; it will be but words without light.   ABU1797

Many are those who verbally acknowledge the appearance of Truth and His power, yet since they have not held fast to the deeds that were revealed in God's Book, they have become the cause of delay for the people of earth.   BH03787

Words and phrases held no authority - novel meanings and sound purposes were accepted and beloved. They looked to hearts, not inscriptions. They listened to the secrets of the heart, not the cryptic words of eloquent writers.   AB02352

In previous cycles and past centuries, teaching was done through words, but in this time it is through deeds... The effect of deeds is more penetrating than the effect of words. Souls are weary of words but attentive to deeds.  ABU0993

Teaching the cause of God is not only through the tongue; it is through deeds, a good disposition, happiness of nature, kindness, sympathy, good fellowship, trustworthiness, holiness, virtue, purity of ideals and lastly, speech.  ABU2029

The All-Knowing, the All-Powerful hath ordained the earth as a scroll wherein the deeds and words of the children of Adam are to be recorded. And since this is so, pure must be the words and praiseworthy the deeds that befit it.   BH08142

These counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty have been revealed from the Supreme Pen so that they may be acted upon, not merely read. Many souls read these Tablets and praise them but do not act according to a single word.   AB02798

We must not begin with words and end in words. We must act and teach mankind with the irresistible force of example. One drop of deed is better than an ocean of words. One ounce of action is more beloved than a tone of eloquent speeches.   ABU1709

Deeds, conduct and behavior represent reality while words are metaphorical. If these metaphors match reality, the fire of the love of God will blaze forth, that soul will be confirmed, and will shine like a star from the horizon of truth.  AB02668

"People do much speaking to advance their own glory and to make themselves appear superior to their neighbors. But if you do the Will of God and do not blazon it abroad, then you will change the whole world. They who do most speak least."  ABU1896

A Baha'i, in whatever city he may dwell, must become renowned for his deeds. Being a Baha'i is a matter of deeds, not words. That is why He says one must teach through deeds, for otherwise all the peoples of the world share in mere words.   ABU1667

Yes, benevolence is easy with words but difficult in action...So speaking with the tongue is easy but action is difficult...They prove their beliefs through action not words, and they are lovers of the human world through deeds not claims.   ABU0548

One's deeds must always exceed one's words. That is, if one good word flows from his tongue, a thousand good deeds should proceed from him, so it becomes clear and evident to all that he is a true well-wisher and genuine champion of humanity.  ABU1252

Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true and sincere and show that love through deeds and not through the tongue; for the latter hath no importance, as the majority of men are, in speech, well-wishers, while action is the best.  AB01704

a believer cannot prove he is of the faithful simply by announcing himself to be a Baha'i. Only by serving and sacrificing, and by dedication to the needs of others whether they are Baha'is or not, can a Baha'i prove that he is of the people of Baha.  ABU1910

Today, every word that is spoken for God's sake, or deed that is manifested for His sake, is like unto the sun amidst the deeds of the world, and is reckoned before the Divine Throne among the most excellent of deeds and is recorded by the Supreme Pen.  BH01760

We cannot bring Love and Unity to pass only by talk. Knowledge is not enough. Wealth, science, education are good, we know that, but we must also work and study. Knowledge is the first step; Resolve, the second step; Action, the fulfillment, is the third step.  ABU1590

Exhortations and counsels are sometimes given through words, and sometimes through deeds and actions, through spiritual fragrances and pre-dawn prayers. However, mere words have never been and are not the criterion of truth and evidence of awakening and insight   AB04383

All these sayings are but words and we see very few of them carried into the world of action...They must on all occasions confirm by their actions what they proclaim in words. Their deeds must prove their fidelity, and their actions must show forth Divine light.  ABU0660

Blessed is the one who hath sanctified himself from whatsoever pertaineth to the ways of savagery and the deeds of the predators of the earth, and who hath adorned the servants with kindness and care in that which will protect and preserve them from self and passion.   BH00276

The religion of God is, in truth, about deeds, not about words. For the religion of God is like a remedy - merely knowing about medicine has no benefit; rather, using the medicine brings benefit. If a physician knows all medicines but does not use them, what benefit is there?   ABU0531

For in this day most people remain veiled from God's Cause and are occupied with their own comfort. How many souls there are who claim attachment to the Truth yet remain far heedless of it, for association is not perfected through words alone and no claim is validated without proof.   BH02038

Compare your speech, behavior and deeds with the divine teachings - whatever you find in accordance, give thanks, and whatever you find not in accordance, seek forgiveness and strive and desire that it may conform entirely to the path of the character and nature of that Kind Beloved.  AB01651

Furthermore, the power of teaching and education is of two kinds: One is that through words humans educate souls, the other is that through deeds humans educate. It is possible to educate people through words, but greater than that is education through deeds, for deeds have more effect.  ABU0400

This mighty cycle is the cycle of lights and the age of mysteries and the century of effects. It cannot be completed through stories and narratives, nor accomplished through pure intention alone. Deeds are needed, conduct is required, divine counsels and admonitions must be carried out.   AB00581

Today is the day of sowing and planting, today is the day of planting trees... any deed that appeareth today purely for the sake of God, even if it be but a single word, is like unto a seed deposited in pure, good and blessed soil - it will surely bring forth lofty and wondrous ears of corn.  BH01861

It is not through word, but through deed. In Oriental language, there is the expression, "May my life be a sacrifice to you," and a man writing a hundred letters a day might use these words a hundred times and yet he would not sacrifice anything for his friend. But this is a custom--a usage.   ABU1014

The world is wrong, just because people talk too much and do not carry out their ideals. If action took the place of words, the world would change very soon. A man who does good and does not talk about it is perfect. The man who does very little good and magnifies it in his speech, is not good.  ABU2032

Indeed, if one takes no action, one's speech will have no effect whatsoever. The matter can be likened to a person who summons the people to peace, but himself engages in the killing of others. The Revelation of Baha'u'llah is for action, peruse The Hidden Words and see what He has said therein.  ABU3718

Christ said, "Ye shall know them by their fruits" - the qualities of a believer show what kind of believer he is. If a man claims to be a believer and does not show forth the qualities of God, it proves that he is a believer in name only, and that he has not yet been regenerated by the Holy Spirit.  ABU0407

Our deeds must conform with our professions. If they do not live according to these clear injunctions, all the lectures, articles and talks will bring to result. "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the Kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven."  ABU0289

May they be characterized by the Most Glorious countenance, Becoming divine confirmations through their deeds, though silent in speech. May they seek naught but the glory of the Cause of Baha, And pursue His good pleasure, and that alone. If for a time they follow this path, They shall attain everlasting glory.  BH01380

Strange it is that they call themselves Christians, utter the name of Christ, read the Gospel, yet Christ is clear of them. Were Christ to descend from heaven and were they to say "These are Thy people," He would say: "God forbid! These are My people in word only, but in truth they are the people of Caiaphas."   ABU0954

Faith does not consist in belief, it consists in deeds. It is not sufficient to believe in Baha'o'llah and to say, "I am of the people of El-Abha"; we must act in accordance with the teachings of Baha'o'llah, who commands us to become centers of divine attraction, so that the attributes of God may emanate from us.  ABU0207

not merely hear a tale and listen to a story that so-and-so sacrificed his life and another offered himself as a sacrifice, that one took up the cup of "Am I not?" and another became intoxicated from the divine wine-house. From stories there is no fruit. Therefore one must take a step in this field and drink a cup.   AB03729

For in this cycle of Baha'u'llah verbal confessions and acknowledgements, literal faith and certainty and external relations are of no avail. Nay, rather, the beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful must manifest such attributes and ethical conduct as to embody and personify the teachings of BAHA'O'LLAH.   AB00530


All people share in words, but it is through goodly deeds and praiseworthy character that the people of truth are distinguished from others. Blessed are they who, after recognizing the Self-Sufficient, the Most High, have held fast unto deeds. The fragrance of pure deeds pervadeth and penetrateth, and influenceth the hearts and minds of men.   BH05339

You shall know the tree by its fruits, be they good or bad. By the fruit which appears you may know whether the tree is dead or alive. In this way it will be known whether the soul is born of the Spirit. If they have the divine qualities, they will show them forth in their lives, for our actions reveal what we are, no matter how the tongue speaks.  ABU1150

The friends are waiting each day for a new letter to reach them from me. And after receiving it, they read it and put it in their boxes and again wait for another letter, which they will again read and preserve in a box. But what can be done when the friends each day await a new letter from me and pay no attention to acting upon and implementing it.  ABU2206

the man who lives the life according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah is already a Baha'i. On the other hand a man may call himself a Baha'i for fifty years and if he does not live the life he is not a Baha'i.  ABU3033

I declare by Him beside Whom there is naught else if we live in accord with one of the Teachings we will become radiant like unto this lamp. If we confess verbally that the principles of Baha'u'llah are the cause of eternal salvation and the means of nearness unto the throne of God and yet do not live according to their contents we would not be Baha'is.   ABU2505

There is a cordial thanksgiving, too, which expresses itself in the deeds and actions of man when his heart is filled with gratitude. For example, God has conferred upon man the gift of guidance, and in thankfulness for this great gift certain deeds must emanate from him. To express his gratitude for the favors of God man must show forth praiseworthy actions.   ABU0579

We hear there is an invention, we believe it is good; then we come and see it. We hear that there is wealth, we see it; we work hard for it, and become rich ourselves and so help others. We know and we see the Light, we go close to it, are warmed by it, and reflect its rays on others; this is real faith, and thus we receive power to become the eternal sons of God.   ABU2287

The Blessed Beauty endured all these afflictions and tribulations so that we might succeed in deeds, not just in words. The sun rises so that people might engage in work, not engage in talk. The Sun of Truth likewise rises so that souls might succeed in deeds, not just in words. "Bring forth deeds if thou art truthful," not "Bring forth words if thou art truthful."  ABU1444

When I told him that he could receive the blessings of the Holy Spirit at any time when he put himself in a receptive attitude to accept them, he said he was always in a receptive attitude... After a little I went over and took his arm, saying, 'But you must return good for evil. Whether I honoured you or despised you, you should follow the teachings; now you merely read them.'  ABU1244


A person may claim to be a Baha'i or may be known as a Baha'i for all his life and may not know at all what a Baha'i means. Another person may never have heard the name Baha'i and may at the same time practice all the attributes which are necessary to make one a Baha'i. That is why his holiness Christ says, those who are not against us are with us. You must know the tree by its fruits.   ABU0763

Teachings are revealed for the sake of practice and not for the sake of hearing or listening only. When man listens to certain teachings he must live them. To listen to the teachings is very easy, but it is difficult to bring them into our daily lives. It is easy to expound one thousand letters of teachings. It is still easier to listen to them, but it is difficult to put into practice one of them.  ABU0003

In order that glorification and thanks may be shown for these bounties, the word and actions must be in accordance with the advices and behests of His Highness BAHA'O'LLAH. Thanks does not depend upon words but upon deeds!  AB00756

All praise, sanctified beyond mention of glorification and exaltation and transcending that plane, befitteth the court of the Desired One Who hath ordained deeds to be the testimony to the truth of words. He is the Balance whereby men and heroes are distinguished and determined from others. Thus in one instance He saith: Deeds are as mirrors, wherein that which is hidden in man becometh manifest and evident.  BH00023

Knowledge is not enough. To know this is not sufficient. You must intend to promote it, you must work for it. Knowledge is a good thing, but it is only the first step. If knowledge is alone it is stationary. All knowledge is good, but it can bear no fruit but by action. It is well to know that riches are good, but that knowledge will not make a man rich; he must work, he must put his knowledge into practice.  ABU1410

Beware, O people of Baha, lest ye walk in the ways of them whose words differ from their deeds. Strive that ye may be enabled to manifest to the peoples of the earth the signs of God, and to mirror forth His commandments. Let your acts be a guide unto all mankind, for the professions of most men, be they high or low, differ from their conduct. It is through your deeds that ye can distinguish yourselves from others.   BH00846

O people! Words must be supported by deeds, for deeds are the true test of words. Without the former, the latter can never quench the thirst of the yearning soul, nor unlock the portals of vision before the eyes of the blind. The Lord of celestial wisdom saith: A harsh word is even as a sword thrust; a gentle word as milk. The latter leadeth the children of men unto knowledge and conferreth upon them true distinction.   BH00698

Mr. Denham: "Should truth be spread verbally or by writing?"  'Abdu'l-Baha: "Both. Real teaching is by action. Action has effect. One act is better than a thousand words. Jesus Christ says 'by their fruits' (actions) and not by their words. What is the effect of words alone? The real thing is action. Certainly. Action has made man eloquent. There is no eloquent language better than action. As long as the sun is bright, is it necessary that it should say 'I am bright?' There is no need for that."  ABU0155

People get together and talk, but it is God's Word alone that is powerful in its results. Consider for a moment: you would not trade together if you had no income from it and derived no benefit! Look at the followers of Christ. Their power was due to their ardour and their deeds. Every effort must have its result, else it is not a true effort. First acquire knowledge, and, when conviction is reached, put it into practice.  ABU1244

These stations are not realized except through deeds. Therefore, it behooveth me and thee and all other believers to sanctify and purify our hearts from the love of the world and all else but God. Let us abandon mere words and cleave unto deeds, for the station of truthfulness and sincerity is not made manifest except through deeds. How many are the servants who claim the most exalted station in words, yet are seen to be deprived of deeds.  BH11831

There are certain souls whose aim is equally lofty. Their desire is also the affinity between members of the human family, but they practice it only to the extent of verbal demonstration. They are not ready to give up their lives for its accomplishment. There is a great difference between the man who rests on the bed of luxury and selfishness, and the man who in the arena of activity willingly sacrifices all for the attainment of a sacred object.  ABU0745

The Emperor of France was one in his words greater than mountains, yet in his deeds less than a mustard seed... Among his utterances was this: should there be found an oppressed one in the world who seeks justice, we shall come to his aid and deliver him from tyranny. Nevertheless, he sent no reply to the divine Tablet and arose not to render assistance. After this episode He declared that his likeness was as a cannon without shot - mighty in sound yet yielding no result.  BH06917

To know the Truth, to have attained knowledge, is good, but it is only the first step, it is not enough. The only thing that avails for the soul's growth, is to live the truth. Of what use is it that we know for a fact there are ten thousand people cold and hungry if we do not feed and warm them? To know of the right road to the mountain top if we do not walk in it? To know there are bad laws if we do not mend them? Or to know Divine truths concerning God if we do not listen and obey His voice?  ABU2810

It is like two souls who rise in the morning: one, from morn till night, pursues his own desires in idle pastimes and games, in matters that yield no result, and when evening comes he has nothing but weariness, weakness and lassitude. The other, from morn till night, strives and labors, never moving according to his own desires, never becoming tainted with idle pursuits, but engaging in commerce and trade. When evening comes he finds he has made much profit and gain, a profitable trade indeed.   ABU1541

People do not become submissive because of virtuous dictums; but rather, when they observe righteous deeds, they grow submissive. Consider the difference between one who speaks of generosity and the one who is generous; between the one who claims justice and equity, and the one who is just and equitable. Or how significant is the contrast between the one who speaks of light, and the one who is illumined. The Blessed Beauty sustained all these trials and tribulations so that we would succeed in our deeds, not so that we would only make mention of our intentions. The sun dawns so that people are able to perform their duties, not merely speak of them. It is revealed, "Adorn thyself by deeds, if thou art of the righteous" and not "Adorn thyself by words, if thou art of the righteous."  ABU1613

Words require deeds. Words without deeds are as bees without honey, or as trees without fruit. Consider the Sage of Sabzivar - in his verses he hath penned poetry suggesting that no Moses existeth, else would the cry "Verily I am God" be heard from every tree. He hath uttered these words in exposition, meaning that one who knoweth God ascendeth to such heights that his eyes are illumined by beholding the lights of divine manifestation, and his ears are privileged to hear His call from all things. The aforementioned sage had no share of these stations, as is evident. This was mere utterance, but when it came to deeds, we observe that he hearkened not at all to the call of the Divine Lote-Tree, raised explicitly and without interpretation from the most exalted spot in the wilderness, calling aloud unto all.   BH00409

In America, praise be to GOD, the cause has become famous and well known. In most of the cities believers are found. They recognize the Physician. Now they must act according to the teachings of Baha'o'llah. They must use the medicine appointed by the Real Physician. They have to compare their actions with the teachings so that all the people may witness and bear record that these people are real Bahais. A sick person knows the physician and received the medicine, but when he does not use it, what is the use of it? Therefore, the beloved of GOD must endeavor to make all their thoughts and intentions the practice of the teachings and commands. If a man is named a "Bahai" but his deeds do not assert the fact, what is the use of that? The balance, or standard, is action. A Bahai is to be known by his actions, not only by his words and pretensions.  ABU0714

The station of man is revealed through deeds. Deeds are the fruits of the Tree of existence. Blessed are they that act, and blessed are they that know.   BH07351

