

He hath created the whole world through His Primal Word, and all do acknowledge and confess this truth. Yet none hath ever understood that Word, let alone its Creator and Source. For if it be claimed that this Word is like unto words that flow from the tongue, this would be sheer injustice and pure fabrication, since such words are subject to extinction while the Word of God is sanctified therefrom. And if it be said that it is of the words that flow from the pen, this too is bounded by contingent limitations, while the Divine Word is exalted above such constraints. This evanescent servant beareth witness that this Word hath never been subject to extinction or annihilation, nor hath it been confined by expressions and meanings.  BH00911

O people! All besides Me have been created by My Word.  BH06114

He hath created all contingent beings through a word from Him  BH02834

The Imams (upon them be the peace of God) were created by His Word   BH10009

I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst create all things   BH07904

He hath created all things through the Word which He created from His Will   BH09746

I beseech Thee by the Word through which earth and heaven were revolutionized   BH08375

Thus doth God create whatsoever He willeth through His command: Be, and it is.  BB00004

I beseech Thee by the Primal Word through which Thou didst create earth and heaven   BH08950

through a single word of His words, adorned the world with the ornament of existence   BH07030

I beseech Thee by the Most Great Word through which Thou didst create earth and heaven  BH07181

At the dawn of creation, the all-encompassing Creative Word was realized in human form.  AB05275

I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst bring the contingent world into being   BH04794

Through a single letter from Him was everything created with the ornament of luminous glory   BH04148

Through the Most Great Word He adorned all things from nothingness with the ornament of being   BH04422

Thou art He Who created the servants through the Word that proceeded from the mouth of Thy Will  BH01567

The True One, exalted be His glory, created the world and its peoples through His Most Exalted Word.  BH07032

I beseech Thee by the Word through which Thou didst create all beings and didst manifest all existence   BH08140

and from it hath appeared the Word whereby all contingent things were created, and God is witness unto this   BH02766

All things have been realized through the Word of thy Lord. By My life, this is indeed the decisive utterance!  BH11218

He brought the world into being through His Word, and caused the rivers of meaning and utterance to flow therein.  BH00092

Verily the Prophet createth through the verses of God - this is God's way, all are created through His Word.  BB00004

By the Word through which Thou didst bring existence out of nothingness and didst guide them to Thy Most Great Name   BH04248

I beseech Thee by Thy Word through which Thou hast brought all created things into being and given life to all existing things   BH09380

I beseech Thee by the Word of Thy command, whereby Thou didst create all contingent beings and bring forth all existing things   BH03234

All manifestations with Thee are but a motionless creation which Thou didst bring forth from nothing and to which Thou didst say "Be."  BH11123

Who through a single Word made manifest the Straight Path and the Balance, the Hour and the Resurrection, the Reckoning and Paradise and the Fire.  BH05360

I beseech Thee by Thy Pen through which Thou didst give life to all worlds, and by Thy Name through which Thou didst create the heavens and the earths  BH10579

He it is Who hath created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them by His command, more swiftly than the utterance of "Be, and it is."   BB00200

Thou didst wish to make Thyself known unto men; therefore, Thou didst, through a word of Thy mouth, bring creation into being and fashion the universe.   BH09960

He is the One Who createth what He willeth through His command Be! and it is. He is the One Who created all things by His command, and unto God shall all return.  BB00004

Thy Word which appeared by Thy command hath encompassed all existence, both the unseen and the visible. Through it Thy power was manifested and Thy sovereignty emerged   BH03112

Behold ye the signs of God's power, how He created all who are in the heavens and earth by one word from His Pen, and breathed into them the spirit of life by another word.  BH00783

All the meanings and utterances that have been created in the realm of origination return unto the Word that hath flowed from the Pen of Thy Command and the Finger of Thy Decree.   BH02533

And there is no doubt that those universal meanings which flow from the Lord upon the Christian Reality were the cause of the creation of beings and the manifestation of existence.   AB04144

The Word of God createth what He willeth. When God saith to this one Be thou a Messenger, he becometh a Messenger. Apply thou this word to every condition, then reason with truth.  BB00004

He is the One Who createth whatsoever He willeth through His command Be, and it is. He createth what He willeth through His command, and there is no God but God, the Lord of all worlds.  BB00004

A single letter of Mine utterance hath, verily, brought forth the entire universe, the realities of all things, and worlds which none can fathom save God, the Almighty, the Most Manifest.   BH00334

Thus have We illumined the horizon of the firmaments of this Tablet with the Luminary of Our Word, a Word through which God hath brought into being all creation from all eternity to all eternity.   BH03572

The entire world existeth through His Word; should He desire, through another Word it would cease to be. Whatsoever hath appeared and will appear from Him hath been according to His all-pervading wisdom.   BH00307

When He willeth a thing to appear in the realm of being, He but speaketh the word, even as the entire creation was brought back into being through the Word that proceeded from His sanctified and exalted mouth   BH05504

For verily it is the Name whereby everything is created, sustained, caused to die, given life, resurrected, reformed, aided, elevated, and glorified, and whereby everything entereth into the mercy of its Lord.  BB00004

Praise be unto the Omnipotent, Self-Subsisting One, Who through the blessed and goodly Word that dawned from the horizon of the All-Merciful Will, brought all creation from nothingness into the realm of being.   BH05024

He it is Who createth what He willeth through His command Be, and it is. Say: All things are mentioned by a name, created by God's command, fashioned by His decree, all are within His grasp, and unto Him shall all return.  BB00004

The whole world has been created from the Divine Word, and that Word has been and will continue to be sanctified above mention of all horizons and souls, and by it were created the horizons and souls, yet most people know it not.  BH02258

all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth have been called into being through a single holy breeze -- the Word of His command -- wafted from His presence, and all shall be brought to naught through but one letter of His.   BH02764

He it is Who hath brought into being all created things by His command, and there is no God but God, the Lord of all worlds. He is the One Who createth whatsoever He willeth by His command, and verily He is the Creator, the All-Subtle.  BB00004

The effulgence of the Word of God is like unto the rays of the sun which conquer the contingent world and illumine the dark universe. It brings forth from the realm of potentiality into the realm of visibility whatsoever exists in the realities of beings  AB07005

Through a single call issued from the Source of His Will, adorned all contingent beings with a new creation. Through that call, the voices of all things were raised up, all bore witness to the oneness of His holy Being and became vocal in His remembrance.   BH01094

from the Point all letters and words were differentiated, and likewise from this Tablet has been differentiated what was sent down from the beginning that has no beginning and will be differentiated unto the end that has no end...by one letter thereof were all these created  BH02170

Through Our bounty were all the Messengers created, one and all. Through Our bounty were all the Books created, one and all. Through Our bounty is created in every Revelation, by Our command, the witnesses to Our Cause in the kingdom of Command and Creation and whatsoever lieth between them.  BB00107

God createth what He willeth through His command Be! and it is. That is God, your Lord; His is the creation and the command; there is no God but Him. Say: All shall return unto Him. He is the One Who created all things by His command, and verily there is no God but Him, the Mighty, the Beloved.  BB00004

Praise be to the Lord of all desires, the Sovereign of the unseen and seen realms, the Manifestation of names and attributes, Who with one exalted Word adorned absolute nothingness with the ornament of existence, and through it illumined the visible and invisible cities with the light of vision and knowledge.  BH00666

These are the verses of God, sent down in truth from the presence of the Mighty, the All-Knowing. God hath made them the sign of His Revelation unto all those in the Concourse on High, and the mirror of His Beauty unto all who dwell in the kingdom of creation, and His conclusive proof unto all created things.   BH00428

The wonderful mystery of this lieth in the fact that God hath revealed the Qur'an out of the Tree of the Will, which is the inner truth of Muhammad Himself, through the tongue of the Apostle Himself. But that supremely exalted Tree revealeth no letter, unless He bringeth into existence, at that very moment of revelation, the spirit of the same letter. For example, should He reveal, We verily have called into being the proceeding of this creation, by virtue of Our behest, for verily We are supreme over all things, then the utterance of proceeding is attached unto all that is called by the name all things.  BB00001

