The details of this Most Great Revelation have not been mentioned except according to the known capacity of the people.  BH00312

Some beheld a gleam, others a flame, while yet others became bewildered and wandered astray   AB06967

Were I to speak of it, it would overwhelm minds; were I to write of it, many pens would break.   BH01095

Verily the Book speaketh, yet the people hear not; and the Pen warbleth, yet mankind knoweth not  BH06937

The verses have been sent down in such wise that the sincere ones are powerless to reckon them.   BH05642

He hath sent down the verses and revealed the evidences, yet the people remain in a strange sleep.   BH07751

Is this Light a veil? Nay, by My Self, rather it is your own eyes that are veiled, O people of the Book!   BH06181

They pass by the verses and recognize them not, they hear from the direction of the Prison and perceive not.  BH00143

Thus have We made the Word to be the Sword of God, distinguishing thereby between the monotheists and the polytheists.  BH01636

This is a Day wherein the books of the world shall profit you not, nor shall the treasures of the nations suffice you.   BH03520

The cup is the words of God and the choice wine is what is concealed therein of the mysteries of hidden knowledge.  BH05549

We have sent forth the Word in human temple and adorned it with the ornament of Mine own Self amidst the Concourse of Names   BH03222

I know not what lieth with Thee or what shall benefit me, but with Thee is the knowledge of all things in a perspicuous Book   BH06197

The Word of God is likened unto a divine Lote-Tree and a Pavilion, with humans finding shelter and security beneath/within it   BH10781

Whosoever doth not cleanse his heart of the veils of blind imitation shall be unable to approach this sublime, irradiant Face.  BH01835

This is a Day wherein all atoms speak even as the Tongue of Grandeur and Glory hath spoken, yet most of the people remain heedless.   BH02340

And He Who conversed on Sinai, seated upon the throne of Manifestation, crieth out with loudest voice, yet the people comprehend not.   BH02226

Strange, nay most strange, that they remain heedless of that which profiteth them and cling to that which harmeth and destroyeth them.  BH00087

We have illumined the world with the Sun of wisdom and utterance, but the peoples have turned away, following every remote ignorant one.   BH06265

Had men recognized the excellence of this Day, they would have cast blame behind their backs, turning unto God, the Lord of all mankind.   BH08351

When the trumpet was blown and the tombs arose, the people were shaken: among them were those who were bewildered, those who swooned away  BH08315

Blessed is the soul whom neither the veils of the divines nor the clouds of the jurisprudents have withheld from the Most Exalted Horizon.   BH06369

Therefore hearken unto His wondrous and decisive Word, that ye may be mentioned before God as being among the dwellers of the eternal cities  BH11428

We have adorned the heaven of utterance with the mention of Our wondrous Name, through which the great terror hath appeared amongst mankind.  BH07178

Hearken, O people, unto that which hath been sent down from My Most Exalted Pen, and hearken not unto what the people of idle fancies utter.  BH05838

When the verses were sent down, they said: "These were revealed before in the tongue of the Remembrance." Nay, they are among the fabricators.  BH04482

Beware lest the conditions of the world withhold you from the Most Great Name. Cast them behind you, turning unto God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH07097

Glorified, glorified art Thou from the hearts of Thy servants reaching unto Thee or the minds of Thy creatures attaining the seat of Thy glory!   BH05090

verily every word that hath issued from the mouth of the Divine Will and been recorded by the Most Exalted Pen shall endure and remain forever.   BH08178

Every sect among the sects hath taken unto itself one of the names and made it lord for itself besides God. Thus have their souls beguiled them.  BH06137

"Did ye but know what He desireth for you, ye would hasten unto Him with your very eyes. But ye are held back through following vain imaginings."  BH06247

Beware lest the happenings of the world prevent thee from the Ancient Beauty or the doubts of the nations veil thee from this irrevocable Cause.   BH02890

The Tongue of Grandeur speaketh, yet the people hear not. Verily the Spirit giveth glad tidings to the servants, yet the people turn not unto it.   BH09554

They that have turned away - these shall have no portion. They make mention of God with their tongues while their hearts tell of images and idols.   BH08981

Cast away what ye possess and turn unto the Singular, the All-Informed. On this Day, no soul's belief shall profit it except after its acceptance.   BH08187

Upon hearing the verses of God, is so seized by the rapture of longing that he forsaketh all who dwell on earth and turneth with his heart unto God  BH06320

"Though it be but the weight of a mustard seed and though it be hidden in a rock, or in the heavens, or in the earth, God will bring it to light."   BH03806

This is the Book of the Bayan which the All-Merciful has sent down from the Kingdom of mystic knowledge to those who have believed in Him in His days   BH04842

This is a Book which the All-Merciful hath sent down for all who are in the realm of possibility, that it may draw all to God, the Lord of all worlds.   BH08395

The penetrating power of this blessed Word hath no peer or likeness, despite those who have denied the penetrating influence of the Word and its power.  BH04441

Let not the affairs of the world grieve thee. By My life! They shall pass away, and thou shalt witness what hath been ordained for those near unto God.  BH03376

No one is permitted to utter a word except as ordained by God in the Most Holy Book which hath been sent down from the kingdom of My wondrous utterance.  BH02809

The Book speaketh, yet the people hear not. The rock hath cried out, and the cry hath been raised, and all things have spoken, yet the people understand not.  BH04856

Despite such manifestation and appearance, such signs and evidences, such tokens and such power and might, the people of the world remain heedless and unaware.  BH07001

For some, their countenance became adorned like a clear light from the rays of this effulgence, while for others this dawn-light appeared as continuous sorcery   AB06359

Thou hast manifested Thy power therein such that were all who dwell on earth to gather together to produce a verse like unto Thy verses, they would be powerless.   BB00133

This is the Day whereon thou must give glad tidings of the appearance of the Lord of all possibility to all the friends and guide them to the straight path of God.  BH09294

All the treasures of the world cannot compare with what hath been revealed concerning you. This is from God's grace which He bestoweth upon whomsoever He willeth.   BH00175

Beware, O people of the earth, lest ye abandon that which ye have been commanded to observe, or break the covenant ye have made in My holy and impregnable presence   BH09544

The former shall forever speak and the latter shall forever flow. May thy honor hearken unto it with a pure ear and taste thereof at all times with a refined palate.   BH09196

How many were the souls who laid claim to steadfastness, yet were unsettled by the croak of a raven, to such degree that they turned away from the Mother Book of God.   BH08114

To recite one verse in a spirit of joy and fragrance is better for you than to recite a thousand verses while witnessing aught else but that spirit and that fragrance.   BB00305

Verily the Book crieth out before the faces of the world: The Hidden One hath appeared, Who was concealed from eyes and inscribed in the Books of God, the Lord of Lords.   BH03606

This letter, whose very point merits such description and is worthy of such praise - how can this perishable frame prove equal to answering it or venture to make response?  BH05138

This is the Day which God hath made the Dayspring of grace unto all who are in the heavens and on earth, the Orient of knowledge unto all who are in the realm of creation   BH05115

Man is limited, weak, fearful, poverty-stricken and helpless. The Divine Reality represents the Power Absolute, capacity for all things, fulfillment for all the needs of man.  ABU0904

The Book is revealed, the Fountain is flowing, the Hidden is manifest, and the Promised One speaks. Turn ye with clear certitude that ye may hear and see and drink and attain.   BH09785

Verily the Pen of the Most Merciful moves at all times and calls out with the most exalted call to all who dwell in the realm of creation, summoning all to God in their return.   BH07102

None but the ignorant would deny it. Yet, as a token of grace unto thee--for verily He loveth His remembering servants--another explanation shall be set forth in the Persian tongue.  BH00245

They whose eyes are illumined with the light of understanding will perceive the sweet savors of the All-Merciful, and will embrace His truth. These are they who are truly sincere.   BH01822

Thus have We sent down the verses and dispatched them unto thee. By the life of God! Within each letter thereof lieth concealed an ocean of meanings and utterance, were men to know.  BH04513

All things have heard the call of the Lord of Names, yet most people are unaware. The mountains have been moved by the breezes of the days of God, yet the people do not understand.   BH04426

Today the world is adorned with a new ornament, and the Most Great Word is dawning and manifest from the horizon of God's Book. Whosoever attaineth unto it hath attained unto all good.  BH05524

He had promised all peoples the appearance of the Ancient King, but when He came with the truth, the people turned away from Him, save whom God, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, did will  BH02883

By God, O people, I am afflicted with a sorrow unparalleled in creation, for I am aware of the tribulations that have befallen and continue to befall the Ancient Beauty at every moment.  BH00814

When thou hast attained unto My verses and drunk the choice wine of My utterance, turn thy face toward My direction and say: Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who art wronged, lonely and unique!  BH03705

How many a learned one hath been reckoned as ignorant before the Throne, and how many an ignorant one confirmed with knowledge in the Tablet of thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed!   BH03936

The world and all that is therein shall perish, and ye shall return to the seat of a mighty, self-subsisting Sovereign, and shall be questioned concerning what ye acquired in your vain days  BH02682

Among them were those who said He had uttered in the Bayan that which was inconsistent with this Revelation, while others claimed He had decreed other than what God had ordained in the Book.   BH05464

They who have veiled themselves there and followed the Calf are in grievous error. There hath been sent down for each one of them that whereby the sun of proof and evidence hath shone forth.   BH02738

And thou, O handmaiden of God, hearken unto the holy, divine melodies, that through hearing them the Holy Spirit may be raised up in thy heart and the Spirit of Power may speak in thy breast.  BH01949

Therefore establishing such law is beyond human capacity, for human intellect must become fully informed of all the requirements of human realities...But this is impossible for human capacity   ABU1298

Although this motion is mentioned as opposed to rest, yet it is sanctified from ascent and descent, and is exalted above vacillation and the comprehension of them that are bounded by limitations.  BH01881

By God! Whoso pondereth today, the melodies of the All-Merciful will draw him to the heaven of good-pleasure and purify him from human limitations and bring him nigh unto the Most Great Prospect.   BH01810

When He says "The Day of Resurrection is fifty thousand years," it means matters that would take fifty thousand years to occur or be achieved will be manifested in one day in the Day of Manifestation.  ABU2446

By God! Wert thou to become aware of its greatness and the greatness of the station of Him Who manifesteth it, thou wouldst melt away with the fire of longing even as snow melteth from the heat of the sun.  BH10177

Through His utterance all things were attracted, through His call the names were set ablaze, and through His remembrance the near ones drew nigh unto a station which was raised up through the name of Truth.   BH04557

The Word of God is conveyed through oral teaching and its influence takes effect. Not much benefit will result from publishing in newspapers. Therefore, teach through speech and utterance as much as you can.  AB06817

This is the Day wherein that which was recorded by the Supreme Pen in the Scriptures and Tablets hath been made manifest, and wherein the betrayal of the eyes and the secrets of the hearts have been unveiled   BH02499

Verily My commandments are the lamps of My loving-kindness amidst My creation and the sweet-scented savors of My raiment in My kingdom. Blessed is he who attaineth unto them, and woe betide those who turn away.  BH04962

That which was hidden behind the veils of the Unseen hath appeared, and the Nightingale of Immortality hath warbled upon the branches. The Hidden One hath been made manifest and God hath come with a mighty Cause.  BH05418

He speaks the truth in the Kingdom of Utterance according to a measured degree, and remains silent concerning that which the ears of men cannot bear to hear. Verily, He is the All-Wise One Who speaks with measure.  BH06008

Verily We hear at this hour the Call which hath been raised betwixt earth and heaven, as though the Caller were God, the Lord of all worlds. And when We turned toward it with Our most pure hearing, We heard it say   BH09775

In all days doth move the Pen of the Lord of all names that hearts may be attracted by its traces, and in every night doth speak the tongue of Revelation that perchance men may attain certitude through God's verses.  BH09450

O people! Fear ye God, then judge with fairness concerning that which hath appeared in truth from One Who is powerful and ancient. He speaketh not of His own desire, but rather from God, the Lord of the worlds.  BH05866

At all times the divine verses are being revealed and His evidences made manifest. This is the day of pure unity, for God the Truth, exalted be His glory, since this is His Day and none is mentioned therein except Him  BH09310

I speak the truth when I say that every soul, in turning to the Most Exalted Horizon, must purify their hearing from the false tales that have circulated among the various sects through the Kawthar of divine utterance  BH05009

One goodly word and one righteous deed are, in this Day, more precious in the sight of God than all the books of the earth - namely, those books which the heedless divines have written according to their vain imaginings  BH06083

"We have heard their call and answered them through Our grace, and I am the Hearer, the Answerer. And We remember them once again through these verses which have been sent down from the heaven of the grace of their Lord"  BH04654

These weak-natured ones of the world have never been and are not now capable of hearkening. Until now they have spoken of the idols of names while remaining heedless of and turning away from the Truth, exalted be His glory.  BH11608

Time and again this exalted word was heard from the Sovereign of the Kingdom of Names - blessed and exalted be His utterance: Until they pass beyond the river of names, they shall not attain unto the ocean of inner meanings.  BH00107

Today the Dawning-Place of Revelation and the Source of Divine inspiration hath appeared and shone forth from the horizon of the heaven of God's loving-kindness. Yet the people of the earth remain heedless and veiled from it   BH06926

Yet ears capable of hearing are rarer than the red elixir. The revelation has encompassed all possibility and divine verses have descended like torrential rain, yet ignorant servants cling to vain imaginings and hold fast to calumnies.   BH02359

O concourse of the learned! Hold back your pens, for the Most Exalted Pen hath been raised up between earth and heaven. Then be silent, that ye may hear what the Tongue of the All-Merciful uttereth in the midmost heart of Paradise.  BH03729

Today the divine verses have encompassed all things, and from the Dayspring of divine revelation at every moment there appears and rises a utterance the like of which the eye of the world and the ears of nations have never seen or heard.  BH03661

To understand the oneness of life is to acknowledge the universe as a unit - a whole - not only half the circle or arc, the positive, but also the other half the negative. The negative side represents the human - the limitations of mankind.  ABU0064

When thou hast attained unto the utterance of thy Lord, the All-Merciful, say: Blessed be He Who hath turned toward His servant from the direction of the Prison and revealed unto him that which cannot be equaled by whatsoever is with all mankind.  BH06205

Should all who dwell in the kingdom of the heavens and of the earth and whatsoever is between them assemble together, they would fail to produce the like of these verses from God. Bring ye forth therefore a verse like unto it, if ye are able.  BB00004

God is the Light of the heavens and earth. His Light is like a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp, the lamp, the lamp within a crystal above a crystal, the crystal, the crystal, well-nigh shining forth of itself even as doth shine the Morning Star.  BB00598

For all who are veiled are veiled by what Thou didst ordain before. Therefore have mercy, O my God, upon those who profess Thy unity, that they may follow Thy Manifestation on the Day of Resurrection and not be veiled by the manifestation before it   BB00283

This blessed word which has flowed from the Most Exalted Pen is greater and more excellent than a hundred thousand children and monuments, for all shall return to extinction while the Word of God endures for the duration of the Kingdom and the Realm.  BH05576

As to what thou hast asked regarding what We have revealed before, know that We have explained and detailed all that hath been and will be mentioned. Search and thou wilt find it in the Tablets. By My life, O Imam! This is not the Day for questions.   BH05294

The barrier was His Word which separated the monotheists from the idolaters. Reflect upon God's power and dominion: He hath built through the Word that which no eye hath outwardly seen, and hath prevented every remote polytheist from transgressing it.  BH06512

Every universal matter is from God; and limitations are from man. Therefore, if people's services and efforts are undertaken for the benefit of all, they are acceptable to God and leave lasting traces. Otherwise, every other effort is limited and transitory.  ABU3316

They cannot attain even a thousandth part of a tenth of what God intended in its meanings. Thus did the Imam say, in essence, that the Word of God is neither ancient nor new-born, for it occupies the station of the intermediary realm and the supreme creation.  BB00105

The dawn hath broken and the moon hath appeared, and the Sun crieth out: "To Me, to Me, O peoples of the earth!" By God! There hath appeared what hath never appeared in creation, and there hath been raised up what hath never been raised up from time immemorial.  BH07752

In secret, with utmost supplication I was saying: Would that all the world were present to attain unto the hearing of the revealed verses which flow and descend like pouring rain. I seek God's forgiveness for this comparison, I seek His forgiveness and turn unto Him.   BH00198

For they are as children, so far as knowledge is concerned. They are unable to bear the higher realities revealed from the Merciful Kingdom: as Christ (upon Him is Glory!) said in the text of the Gospel "I have yet many things to tell you but ye cannot bear them now"   AB02473

O people of the earth! Hearken unto the call of the Lord of Heaven, for verily it will draw you nigh unto the supreme horizon, that station wherein the Divine Lote Tree proclaimeth: The kingdom belongeth unto God, the Single, the One, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.   BH08231

Nicodemus was a learned man; nevertheless he was one of those to whom Jesus referred when He said: "Because seeing, they see not, and hearing, they hear not; neither do they understand." V. 10, Jesus said: "What will become of your pupils; you yourself cannot understand."  ABU1762

We have indeed sent unto thee what was revealed in the prison, and verily a single letter thereof is greater than the creation of the heavens and earth, and through it God's proof, His evidence, His testimony and His signs have been perfected for all, whether small or great.   BH01824

He hath come unto you from the heaven of bounty with the Kingdom of verses and the Dominion of clear proofs, with a sovereignty that encompasseth all worlds. Read ye what hath been sent down from His presence - verily it guideth you unto a path that is straight through justice.   BH05505

Most wondrous of all is the heedlessness of the servants and the tyranny of them that dwell in the lands. We beseech God not to deprive His servants of the outpourings of the Day of Retribution, nor to withhold from them the hearing of His Word and the beholding of His Horizon.   BH00945

The ocean of utterance has surged and the fragrance of the All-Merciful has wafted, yet the people do not understand. The scratching of My Pen has been raised up, along with the flowing of the water of My mercy and the rustling of My Divine Lote-Tree, yet most people do not perceive.   BH05839

I say in truth that there hath never been and shall never be any barrier against the decreed hour. Thus He saith that death shall overtake every soul, even if they be in lofty, impregnable towers. But that which is not decreed may be lifted through God's absolute Will and His pervading divine Purpose.  BH01763

Consider how many afflictions and tribulations have befallen the Cause of God and His loved ones in this Most Great Revelation, successively and continuously, and that the purpose of bearing these hardships hath been the exaltation of God's Cause and the elevation of the manifestation of His divine will.  BH04403

Hearken unto what the idolaters say, that these verses were not revealed naturally. Say: Open your eyes, O company of the heedless ones! By God, by a single letter of what hath been sent down from the dominion of God, the Mighty, the Bountiful, nature and its sources and its manifestations were created.   BH00724

The path of God hath appeared - hasten ye unto it and be not of them that tarry. We have ordained that hearts should turn towards Him - know ye this and be not of those who turn their feet toward this praiseworthy Station. Indeed He hath not permitted them to do so, lest there arise a clamor among the people.   BH06279

Whatsoever hath been revealed in the Bayan is a bounty from God bestowed upon thee until the Day when all shall return unto Him. Behold those who pride themselves on vain credentials from such as have no right to judge, while this is a Book from God wherein there is no doubt, a revelation from the Lord of the worlds.  BB00003

Yet the mirrors have not recognized their own reflection and imagine Divine Unity in the previous sun's effulgence which was in the Temple of Muhammad, peace be upon Him, even though it has been lifted just as at the time of the Manifestation of the Apostle of God it was lifted from Moses to the Spirit of God (Jesus).   BB00242

I have given thee examples of the highest and lowest, that thou mayest understand what lieth between them. Move with insight in every Dispensation, look not to its beginning but fix thine eyes upon its end, which is the next Manifestation, for the exaltation of the former Manifestation is in the beginning of the latter.  BB00005

One night among those nights, Khwajeh Ilyas 'Abbud, in whose house the Throne is now established, attained the Most Holy Presence, and after seeing the dishes, at one point asked this servant whether it would be possible to write and have brought one set of coffee cups with one covered soup bowl from the Chinese dishes.   BH01798

The names of the servants have been prevented from their Owner and Creator. In the pool of names they have drowned. Glory be to God! The Most Great Ocean surges before all faces, and the Purpose of the world is manifest and evident from the horizon of the Most Great Name. Nevertheless, they remain deprived and forbidden.   BH05599

We commanded you not to apply your men's knowledge to Our words, for this shall profit you not. Take ye the Book of God in truth and hear ye from the Tongue of God in truth, and preserve in truth all that hath been revealed from Our presence, for this is your provision until the Day of Resurrection whereon all shall stand.  BB00003

He has demanded of me a meaning which has no evidence save wisdom, and cannot be established otherwise, according to the text of the Sheikh - may God's mercy be upon him - in the Benefits, twenty-four proofs from among those that were the province of children, after having read in the Book of God the three proofs sufficient for all.  BB00026

In reflecting upon the conditions of faith for those souls and the conditions of faith for these new souls, much contemplation is required. Blessed are they who are awake and alert - those souls who have been awakened by the divine breeze and have turned toward the Most Exalted Horizon, detached from the world and all that is therein.  BH00095

These are the verses of the Book which have been sent down in the most melodious tones, and they in themselves shall be a proof unto all who dwell in the heavens and on earth. Through them hath been created the kingdom of names and attributes, and for each letter thereof hath been ordained a tongue that speaketh between earth and heaven  BH01761

Every soul that rises up for the sake of God in that very moment enters the presence of the Intended One and finds the Beloved through the fragrance of hearts...God willing, through the grace of the All-Merciful, may you be free at all times from idle fancies and imaginings, and be attentive and turned toward the direction of certitude.   BH05528

The example of the Books of God is as the example of the sun - if it rises innumerable times it is one sun, and if it sets innumerable times it is one sun. Likewise the Books, if they are revealed innumerable times from God, verily it is one Book, and if they are raised up innumerable times, verily they are raised up unto God and it is one Book.  BB00654

Indeed, such utterance from one like Me is not befitting, for its time hath not yet come. But since I see thee among those who desire the pure religion, I have sprinkled from that surging ocean a sprinkling of that which was about to overflow from Me. Though My fear for that land is evident to thee, yet since My hope in God exceeds My fear of them, I have mentioned what thou knowest.  BB00029

Let them play with what they have. By Him Who holds my soul in His hands, all the verses of the Bayan and its revealed ordinances lament the cruelty of those polytheists. Though mention of the Bayan flows from their tongues out of their desire to preserve their leadership, they have perpetrated against its Revealer that which no people have ever inflicted upon the Divine Manifestations.  BH00060

Wouldst thou question Him by Whose command all that was and shall be hath appeared? Him Who created all things by His word "Be," and it was, if thou be of them that understand? Wouldst thou associate the mention of thy Lord with the mention of any other? By God! This is a sin with which no sin in the heavens and earth can compare, and My Soul, the Truth, beareth witness unto what I say.   BH00258

In the Third Gate hath been ordained whatsoever verses are sent down in the Bayan. One single verse thereof is proof against all who are in the heavens and on earth and whatsoever lieth between them. Should all who are in the heavens and on earth and whatsoever lieth between them gather together to produce the like thereof, they would never be able, nor could they do so according to their nature.  BB00035

Ye dwell in your homes, holding a Book in your hands, reading what is therein, yet ye perceive not that this is from God Who created you, sustaineth you, causeth you to die, and giveth you life. It hath been sent down by Him Whom God shall make manifest unto you, that ye might be guided by His appearance. Why do ye not understand a matter when ye read it, failing to be guided by the proofs contained therein?  BB00003

This is a Book sent down in truth on this Day unto him who hath believed in God, the Supreme Ruler, the Self-Subsisting, that the rapture of its utterance may so seize him that no one shall be able to deter him from the path of God, the Lord of all existence. We have indeed expounded the mysteries of the Book and revealed that which lay hidden in the knowledge of God, whereunto bear witness His favored servants.   BH02627

None who are endowed with understanding shall be admonished by Our verses except through the decree of thy Lord, whilst most people are more astray than cattle according to the judgment of the Qur'an, yet most people perceive not. What aileth these people that they believe not in the signs of God save a little? Indeed these people, according to the judgment of the Qur'an, are as cattle - nay, more astray in their path.  BB00019

Glory be to God! In the Tablet of Wisdom mention is made of the penetrating power of the Word. God, our Lord and the Lord of the mighty Throne and the elevated Seat, speaketh the truth. This servant beareth witness that the word of the loved ones courseth and floweth through and penetrateth all elements - how much more so the Most Exalted Word of God! This evanescent one is incapable of describing its effect and penetrating power.   BH01257

Consider also the words of the Letters and the Gates concerning the appearance of the Qa'im. Yet at the time of His wondrous manifestation all these sayings were set aside by a single word, as thou thyself bearest witness that the Prophet hath been from the beginning that hath no beginning and will continue unto the end that hath no end, as mentioned in the words of the Exalted One - may the life of all else be a sacrifice unto Him.   BH00620

If you say the decisive verses are the divine commandments revealed in the Tablets, there is no doubt in this - we all are assured of them, believe in them, and hope for His grace. These decisive verses are decisive in relation to the Most Wise of Judges, as it is evident that if a person were to comprehend all the decisive verses but hesitate even slightly in accepting that Most Great Verse, all his deeds would yield no fruit and would be as dust.  BH00004

For whenever the Divine Voice is raised all the other voices are hushed. The charm and beauty of the voice of Truth attract the hearts and spiritualize the thoughts. When the rich and highly-gifted spiritual Artist breaks forth into a concourse of soft lays and colorful tones of minstrelsy, then the melodies and scores of the earthly singers will sink lower and lower till at least they are lost in a sea of eternal silence,- obscure and mystifying.   ABU2280

The two Holy Books of the Bab's and of the Baha'i Teachings are written in Arabic, the holy language of the divine Revelation. Each translation into a secular language makes their comprehension more difficult. The Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah therefore decreed that these books - the Holy Book Kitab-i-Aqdas, by the way, is but the completion of the Bayan - should only be translated into other languages when the peoples concerned will have accepted the Baha'i Teachings.   ABU0193

In these days when in the heavens of manifestation the spiritual suns have risen from the horizons of visibility, and the effulgences of the Sun of the Most Glorious Countenance shine forth from the dawning-places of existence, and the dawnings of divine knowledge gleam from the eastern horizons of the Kingdom, the moons of wisdom, in accordance with their illumination from the Ancient Sun, are giving light in every direction, and the stars of eternity are shining with perfect radiance from the heavenly spheres of existence.  BH04709

He is unique in utterance and peerless in expression, before Whose Word the oceans of inner meanings bow down when spoken by the tongue of His Will, and all the books of the world prostrate themselves at the revelation of but a single letter of His verses. Through a movement of His finger, the Supreme Pen moves in the Kingdom of Creation and decrees the fate of the last and the first. Every eloquent one has confessed inability before His utterance, and every articulate one has acknowledged inadequacy before His exalted Word.  BH00033

In this Revelation, every word that hath dawned from the horizon of the Will of God, glory be to His majesty, all mention, nay all books, bow down before it. Where is the vision to see, and where is the hearing to hear, and where is the heart to understand? The state of the heedless is that they play with their own vain imaginings, even as they have been occupied therewith for a thousand and two hundred years and more. He who hath drunk from the stream of fancy is not worthy to draw nigh unto the Most Great Ocean, except through the grace of God, the Lord of the worlds.   BH00215

Most of the people of the world cling to their own desires, imagining themselves to be turning toward the truth. If the Hand of Divine Power should rend asunder one veil, they would take up other veils for themselves, whereby they remain deprived of the Lord of Names and the Creator of Heaven. All souls have been promised the Day of God and have been given the promise of the manifestation of Truth, as mentioned countless times in the Qur'an, the Bayan, and the heavenly Books. This is the foundation of the Book and its essence. Nevertheless, none has understood this station.  BH00091

Were We to utter a word, We would not wish to repeat it again - and God is witness to what I say. And whenever We have repeated words, We have intended in each one of them a meaning that none hath comprehended save My all-knowing and informed Self. By thy life! Had We found the people to have attained maturity, We would not have repeated the words. Thou dost witness that whatsoever proceedeth from My Pen at every moment is of a wondrous nature. And verily, whenever We send down from the Kingdom of Glory and Power that which We send down, We do so in a manner suited to this creation. Were We to find them possessed of illumined vision, We would assuredly send down unto them at every moment that which would make them independent of all who dwell in the heavens and on earth, and We would teach them daily of the wonders of knowledge and wisdom. But since We have found their souls accustomed to fancy and imitation, therefore doth the Pen of Command reveal that which befitteth the condition of these weak ones. And this is a certain truth. By God! All that We have revealed from the beginning that hath no beginning hath been according to the capacity of creation, but the station of God is greater than this. Were He to reveal that which is worthy of His station, all who are in the heavens and earth would be thunderstruck, and the pillars of all created things would utterly cease to be.  BH00127
