
Art is worship.  ABU3551

Engage in commerce.  AB06893

Devotion to and love for one's vocation accomplishes miracles.  ABU3634

Art is identical with an act of worship   ABU2119

Work is intended to give man self-assurance and dignity  ABU3440

Trust in God and engage in your work and practice economy   AB07534


Occupy thyself with thy craft; He will assist thee as He pleaseth.  BH06441

The most beautiful pentagram comprises: Love, work, prayer, peace and joy   ABU3621

and their craft and occupation would truly acquire the character of worship  AB12800


...commerce and politics will take care of themselves in perfect harmony...   ABU3176

In whatever work one engages, one must carry it out with the utmost perfection  AB12494

His Holiness Baha'u'llah has even said that occupation and labor are devotion.  AB09747

occupy thyself with thy profession in obedience to the command of thy Chosen Lord  AB09366

Let all promote the Cause of God through their words, deeds, conduct and character  AB12449

Arts and crafts are among the greatest means of drawing near to the Divine Threshold.  AB06578

I have found a way to gain my living with the sweat of my brow and the labor of my hand.  ABU3210

The occupation that is beloved in the sight of God is engagement in crafts and professions.   BH03787

God willing, may he strive diligently to acquire perfections and likewise to learn a craft.   BH01487

Thou shouldst continue thy profession, and, at the same time, try to serve the Kingdom of God.  AB11604

This is a work through which a person becomes beloved and regarded both with God and with people.  BH03267

attaining perfection in one's profession in this merciful period is considered to be worship of God  AB09842

and that very work itself is worship in the sight of God, even if one tarries but a day in any land.  BH11762

Blessed is his son who hath engaged in a craft. Arts and crafts are accounted as worship before God.  BH08017

The trade and craft that you have, since you are compelled to it, has no harm - remain engaged in it.  AB10849

Spend half of the day in search of livelihood, guaranteeing your material life and dignified appearance  ABU3735

The craft of every craftsman is accounted as worship. This is among the great favors of the Lord for His servants.  BH10133

Craftsmanship is a volume from the volumes of divine knowledge and a treasure from the treasuries of divine wisdom.  BH02575

"Let them place their trust in God in all matters and occupy themselves with their work... Be not remiss in thy work."   BH01897

He had stated that the practice of an Art or Trade in the true spirit of service was identical with the worship of God.   ABU2205

therefore teachers are servants of the All-Merciful Lord, for they are engaged in this service which is an act of worship.  AB03674

Occupy thyself with some occupation, placing thy trust in God, the All-Wise, for all are commanded to engage in some occupation.  BH01226

Now place your trust in God and return to the regions of Iran, and engage in some occupation and become familiar with some work.  AB08598

The Blessed Perfection Baha'u'llah teaches that the human being - every human being - has a right to peace, freedom, joy and work.  ABU3353

That is well. Very well. A day's work done in the spirit of service is in itself an act of worship. Such work is a prayer unto God.  ABU3536

The service we perform is equivalent to worship if we perform it with truth and trustworthiness; it is a cause of human advancement.  ABU2450

"in this Movement work and worship must go hand in hand; one must help the other.... work and occupation have the status of worship"  ABU2144

In this great dispensation, art (or a profession) is identical with an act of worship and this is a clear text of the Blessed Perfection   AB03769

To engage in some profession is highly commendable, for when occupied with work one is less likely to dwell on the unpleasant aspects of life.  BH00140

every soul must pursue some work, craft or profession so that they may carry their own weight rather than becoming a burden for others to bear   AB02662

God, exalted be His glory, hath commanded engagement in craft, earning, and trade. Yours is the action, and His is the blessing and loving-kindness.   BH01584

When someone devotes themselves wholeheartedly to learning a science or perfecting a craft, it is as if they are worshipping in churches and temples.   AB05132

It has been revealed in the Teachings that work is worship, but this does not mean that worship and the prescribed mentionings of God should be abandoned  ABU2925

Verily thy Lord loveth those servants who earn their livelihood, but only to such measure as their earning preventeth them not from the remembrance of God  BH01921

It is true that man must work, engage in an occupation so that he may not become a burden on the community but all his ambition must not revolve around this.  ABU1210

riches earned by personal effort with divine assistance, in various trades, agriculture and the arts, and rightly administered, are justly deserving of praise  ABU3427

"On other days they should engage in occupation and the earning of livelihood, and should regard such occupation itself as worship of the Self-Sufficient Lord"   BH02278

Although inherited wealth doth not endure, and unto God belongeth the heritage of the heavens and the earth, man must work through his own efforts and endeavor.  AB07974

They are most industrious and you can ameliorate your conditions and increase your crop by watching their ways. Live a virtuous, upright, honest, truthful life.  ABU1467

Every person must have a profession, whether it be literary or manual, and must live a clean, manly, honest life, an example of purity to be imitated by others.  ABU1198

consult together in all matters both small and great, even regarding agriculture, crafts, commerce and livelihood - each one should repeatedly consult and assist  AB05193

Agriculture is a noble science and, should thy son become proficient in this field, he will become a means of providing for the comfort of untold numbers of people   AB12015

In this Most Great Revelation, engagement in some occupation hath been prescribed for all the loved ones. Be thou occupied with some matter, placing thy trust in God.  BH06986

As for material matters, you should engage in work while placing your trust in God. He will send down to you from the heaven of His favors that which is ordained for you.  BH02898

Let him engage in craft and profession - a single coin earned thereby is, in the sight of God, more beloved than the treasure that is gathered unrightfully and made ready.  BH10890

Today, whosoever earneth his livelihood through his craft or profession is accounted among those who are nigh unto God, and his deeds are recorded as worship in God's Book.  BH10106

As for service, trade and profession - if conducted with trustworthiness, religious devotion and truthfulness - all are acceptable and none is to be preferred over another.   AB05100

Assuredly, if one perfects his craft, he shall be rewarded at the Court of the Divine Unity, and that product shall find acceptance in the market of the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB09242

Praise be to Him that I was confirmed instead in the worship of the One true God and servitude at His threshold. God be praised that I managed to perfect the art that I learnt.   AB04288

The first duty of God's friends and the handmaidens of the All-Merciful is to strive by whatever means possible for the education and training of children, both male and female.  AB00142


In this all-embracing Cycle, the wonders of craftsmanship are counted as worship of the Resplendent Beauty. Consider what a bounty and what a blessing it is that craftsmanship is worship.   AB06647

No occupation can prevent the soul coming to God. Peter was a fisherman, yet he accomplished most wonderful things; but the heart must be turned always towards God, no matter what the work is  ABU0982

There was once a blacksmith in Iran, and to keep his fire going and get the iron red hot so it could be hammered into shape on the anvil, he had a boy apprentice to blow and blow the bellows. Finally the boy, half dead from toil, cried out, "I am dying! I am dying!" And the blacksmith shouted back, "Die and blow the bellows! Die and blow! Die and blow!"  ABU3092

God willing, the poor should strive and engage in earning a livelihood, and this is a matter prescribed for every soul in this Most Great Revelation and is reckoned among good deeds before God.   BH00718

Be not saddened by thy engagement in outward affairs, for God, exalted be His glory, hath ordained that your occupation is worship itself - this is a decree revealed in the Book aforetime.  BH00955

a farmer who tends his field with utmost dedication is like a worshipper who supplicates with utmost humility in a temple, and a worker who labors with honesty and truthfulness is like one who prays  AB00903

As to what you wrote about business matters, engaging in a profession has been and is beloved before God. We beseech Him to assist you, bestow His blessings, and ordain that which contains your good.   BH00880

Man must work with his fellows. Everyone should have some trade, or art or profession, be he rich or poor, and with this he must serve humanity. This service is acceptable as the highest form of worship.   ABU2418

When anyone occupieth himself in a craft or trade, such occupation itself is regarded in the estimation of God as an act of worship; and this is naught but a token of His infinite and all-pervasive bounty.   BH00568

In this world we are all more or less wood-choppers. If we are attacked with a sickness and survive it we have to work a little more, to chop a few more loads of woods and the world will go on perennially.   ABU1352

One must possess stability and capacity, even in worldly and physical matters. How excellent a power is stability and constancy - for example in commerce, agriculture and crafts, how excellent is stability.   ABU2434

Baha'u'llah has said that whoever has an art or handicraft, it is incumbent upon him to endeavor to develop it to the point of perfection - even though that art be as humble as that of weaving coarse straw matting.  ABU2900

The other kind are those affairs which contribute toward the maintenance of livelihood, adding to the comfort, happiness and progress of the human family. Spiritual powers always come to the assistance of such affairs  ABU2801

A teacher shall sleep at night with the thought that the next day he may be refreshed in order to do his duty more fully in relation to teaching his pupils. Whatever work is referred to him, he can discharge it fully.   ABU2284

When you are plowing the ground or sowing the seeds or reaping the harvest let all your thoughts and sub-conscious thinking be of God. Your hands and feet will be working but your heart must be attached to the Almighty.   ABU3244

Man must work and in that work show the qualities of God and thus do good. His work, both material and spiritual, must show what he is. By his arts, sciences, inventions and all of his work he must show his best ability.   ABU1794

This was so that every craftsman might know that craftsmanship is desired and accepted before God. All should strive and endeavor to perfect it, that every thing may attain to its paradise which is its state of perfection.  BH09285

The command of the Blessed Beauty, may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust of His threshold, is that whosoever undertakes any craft should carry it out with utmost perfection, and when one doeth so, that craft is worship.  AB11144

The perfection of work is man's greatest reward. When he sees his work perfected and this perfection has been the result of incessant labor and application he is the happiest man in the world! Work is the source of human happiness.  ABU0488

Yet all the Prophets of God have enjoined a way of life, and have articulated a set of teachings, that call on people to maintain good health and be engaged in some kind of work, that thereby they may render service to all humanity.  ABU2562

all are commanded to engage in a craft, which is indeed accounted as worship before God.   BH01369

Indeed, commerce, agriculture and crafts are not impediments to serving the Divine Unity; rather, they are supreme means for demonstrating religiosity, trustworthiness, and the manifestation of divine qualities, and are clear evidence thereof.  AB06704

In every matter, first of all I consider the glory of the Cause of God. All the expenses which are being made are for the promulgation of the Baha'i principles in the world. We do not charge anything for them. Freely we have received freely we give.   ABU2017

Know thou that occupations, crafts and sciences which are the cause of progress for the servants of God and bring comfort and prosperity to all creatures, when coupled with the intention of a pure and sincere heart devoted to God, are all worship of God without exception.  AB11831

Though outwardly you are occupied with planting, irrigating and harvesting in that farmland, in reality you are sowing seeds of service in the field of devotion, for you have good intentions and are thinking of advancing work through trustworthiness, religiosity and effort.  AB01352

In this wondrous age craftsmanship is worship. The more you strive, the closer you draw to God. What bounty could be greater than that one's craft be like worship of God - that when the brush of painting is in your hand, it is as if you are engaged in worship in the temple   AB01048

God willing, the poor should strive and engage in crafts and trades, for this hath been made obligatory upon everyone in this most great Revelation and is accounted among good deeds in the sight of God. And whoso acteth upon it, the hidden assistance of God will assuredly encompass him.   BH00445

Today the craftsman of a praiseworthy craft is loved in the sight of God and attaineth unto the glory of acceptance. Blessed is the soul that is engaged in a craft or profession. By the life of God! The practitioners of crafts have been and continue to be remembered before His countenance.   BH08297

By this I do not mean that man must not have a business, that he must not be occupied, that he must not be in commerce. In this dispensation, these things constitute devotion. It is incumbent upon every man to be occupied; but his heart must be free and detached. Occupation is identical with devotion.   ABU0695

Every human being is like a farmer: the crop of one is industry, the crop of another is a trade, the crop of yet another is in the political arena, and so forth. But though these crops each have their blessings, yet their result is not eternal, and these cultivated plants will not bring forth an everlasting harvest.  AB08233

In your craft, be as diligent as you can, so that it may reach the utmost perfection and excellence, for perfection in all degrees is beloved. Assuredly, if someone perfects their craft, they will be rewarded at the Threshold of Oneness, and that merchandise will be acceptable in the market of the Most Glorious Kingdom.  AB09242

The parents must exert their utmost effort;- thus their children may learn trades and professions. The first and primal thing that is essential for every young man is a trade. In this dispensation to study an art is prayer; work is considered as worship. For this reason it is said: 'The tradespeople are the friends of God.'  ABU0106

wherever circumstances permit, engage in whatever craft thou desirest - this is acceptable. But in all conditions remain mindful of the remembrance of God and occupied with the divine fragrances, for all crafts and arts shall pass away and vanish, while that which is of God shall endure and persist.  AB05311

The man who makes a piece of notepaper to the best of his ability, conscientiously, concentrating all his forces on perfecting it, is giving praise to God. Briefly, all effort and exertion put forth by man from the fullness of his heart is worship, if it is prompted by the highest motives and the will to do service to humanity.  ABU1800

However, engagement therein for the benefit of the servants of God and for one's own benefit to an extent that does not lead to the fire of greed and passion has been and is praiseworthy. The King of the Messengers - may the spirit of all else be sacrificed for His sake - has said: "The one who earns his living is beloved of God."  BH01092

All servants have been commanded to pursue an occupation in God's Book. Praise be to God that ye have attained this supreme gift. I swear by the Sun of divine utterance that this deed of yours is more glorious in the sight of God than the deeds of those who count themselves among the pillars of the earth. God Himself hath testified and doth testify to this truth.   BH07533

Regarding what you wrote about the affairs of the beloved of the heart, his honor the Observer, upon him be Baha'u'llah's glory - I beseech God, exalted be His glory, to open the gates of comfort and blessing upon him and to act with complete steadfastness in accordance with what they have willed, for occupation is necessary and is reckoned before God among good deeds.  BH00299

God, exalted be His glory, has loved to witness pleasing crafts from His loved ones. Blessed art thou for what thou hast crafted has been presented before the face of thy Lord, the Wronged One, the Stranger. God willing, may each of the loved ones be enabled to manifest a craft from among the crafts and be assisted in that which they have been commanded in the Book of God, the Mighty, the Wise.   BH05807

The purpose of knowledge is the benefit of God's servants, and this has ever been and will continue to be the crafts and trades. He has ever said and continues to say: "Know ye the value of the craftsmen, for they have been and continue to be the cause and means for facilitating affairs." The foundation of religion is made firm through God's Law, and the foundation of livelihood through the craftsmen.   BH00676

It is incumbent upon each one of you to engage in some occupation--such as a craft, a trade or the like. We have exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of worship of the one true God. Reflect, O people, on the grace and blessings of your Lord, and yield Him thanks at eventide and dawn. Waste not your hours in idleness and sloth, but occupy yourselves with what will profit you and others.  BH00001

Praise be to God that they have been aided to follow God's command, for all are enjoined to engage in craft, trade and agriculture. However, they must act according to what hath been revealed in the Book - that is, they should send something to their families and inform them. These deeds which all are commanded to perform in God's Book have been and shall ever be the cause of glory and the source of blessing and the manifestation of bounty.   BH01094

Consider what were the consequences of commerce and agriculture and crafts, and what fruit they bore - were they deadly poison or life-giving honey? Did they harm the soul or bring joy to the conscience? Take heed, O ye who have eyes to see! Therefore think upon such commerce and agriculture and crafts whose fruit is sweet and whose fragrance is ambered and whose profit is great and whose prosperity is in the supreme Kingdom.  AB01443

It must not be implied that one should give up avocation and attainment to livelihood. On the contrary, in the Cause of Baha'u'llah monasticism and asceticism are not sanctioned. In this great Cause the light of guidance is shining and radiant. Baha'u'llah has even said that occupation and labor are devotion. All humanity must obtain a livelihood by sweat of the brow and bodily exertion, at the same time seeking to lift the burden of others, striving to be the source of comfort to souls and facilitating the means of living. This in itself is devotion to God.  ABU0749

