Dr. E: Was Abdul Baha born in Nur?  Abdul-Baha:  No. (I was born) in Teheran.  ABU1012

I recalled how as a child I was taken to see Him [Baha'u'llah] at the prison where he was confined in Teheran. I went down a long flight of steps leading to the dungeon, which had no other outlet. It was absolutely dark. I peered through the gloom endeavoring to see some one, but could see nothing. Then I heard his blessed voice saying to the guard who had brought me, "Why did you bring that child? Take him back! Take him back!" I was then led upstairs. The guards told me that it was customary to bring the prisoners out at midday for half an hour, at which time they were allowed to breath the fresh air and wash. I waited until noon, when they were brought out. They bore chains so heavy that some could hardly carry them. Among them I saw Baha'o'llah and one of his followers chained together. His neck was bent under the weight of the chain, and he walked with great difficulty. His clothes were tattered, and he was in a very pitiable condition. His health was visibly failing. The guards took him to a pool that he might wash his face. When he was led back to the dungeon my emotion was indescribable. Although I was only a child I was so overcome that I lost consciousness.   ABU1294

I ['Abdu'l-Baha] remember that during my childhood we had a colored servant whose name was Mobarek. He was very big and strong. At this time I was six or seven years. We were travelling and Mobarek was with us. On one of these stages he was stricken down with fever. In the Orient it is customary that when a person is feverish, he goes and sits in the sunshine. Mobarek had a big fur coat. He puts on this fur coat and lies down in the sun. His fever was so severe that he would shake and tremble like the leaf of a tree. There were several children amongst them myself. We would hide ourselves and watch Mobarek going toward the sunshine and lie down. His trembling was so violent that even the fur coat was trembling. Then quietly on tip-toe we would approach him and one by one sit on him. When my turn came and I sat on him he had such a violent fit that down I came. In short he took several quinine pills with no result. Finally he told to all the children you come early tomorrow morning and I will show you how I am going to treat myself.  Early morning we all went and saw Mobarek in the sunshine shaking as usual but with a big basket of prunes before him. He started to eat these prunes and at every moment he was shaking more and more. After this treatment, he became well and never had any more attacks of fever. ABU1715

In Tehran when I was a child of seven years old, I contracted tuberculosis. There was no hope of recovery.  Later its wisdom became clear - that if I had not been ill I would have had to stay in Mazandaran, but because of this illness I stayed in Tehran during the imprisonment of the Blessed Beauty and for this reason traveled to Iraq in His company. When the time came, suddenly after all doctors had given up hope, health was obtained, even though all had said it was impossible for this illness to be cured. The point is that in whatever occurs there is consummate wisdom.  ABU0678

O family of the honored Uncle! That illustrious Uncle is seated upon the throne of truth in the presence of the Mighty Sovereign and gazes upon those left behind, his pure soul being present. Therefore strive so that that illustrious person may attain the utmost joy and delight in the Kingdom of the Beautiful Lord.  That embodied spirit was very kind to 'Abdu'l-Baha, and in childhood in Nur would shower affection day and night and embrace him.   AB03992

I was born in Persia and while I nursed with my mother's milk I received truth. When a little child my first words were, 'Ya Baha El-Abha!'  ABU2399

At the time of our arrival in Bagdad I was a small lad, taking an active part in all the diversions and plays [illeg.] to that period of life. I remember one day, accompanied by a number of grown-up people we called on the Persian Consul who was considered an amateur sport and hunter. He cherished in his heart a great hate for Baha'u'llah and whenever His Name was mentioned his eyes became red with rage and wanted to pop out of their sockets. Nevertheless he showed us outward courtesy and hospitality [and] did not let his hate become manifest. He had given his rifle to be [polished] and while we were there they brought it in. Proudly he took it in his hand[s] and began to examine it. Looking at me with a malicious smile in his face he asked me: "Are you Tir Andaz? (sharp shooter) 'Yes' I answered. 'Can you shoot a bird while flying in the air?' 'Assuredly.' I said. 'This is very easy; but I can also shoot a man while walking on the earth.' And I looked at him significantly. He thought this was a warning and therefore was sorely afraid and stopped his outward persecution of the Blessed Perfection.  ABU1838

The Master apropos of revolver shooting said: "When I was young they would light ten candles and at the range of a very long distance I would put out the lights one after another without missing one." ABU3517

Because their nature is so simple, children love all kind of animals and stories related to them as well as to inanimate objects. I remember an incident of my childhood which will bear out this matter. I was then very, very young, probably 3 or 4 yrs. At the time the Blessed Perfection lived in Teheran. In our street, close by to our house lived one of the Farrashes of the palace. He was a bird fancier and in a peculiar manner all his own he had tamed a number of nightingales which followed him everywhere, sitting on his head and shoulders and while he walked in the streets they warbled melodiously. He had cut a piece of the lower bills of the poor birds;- so that they could not pick up the grains and were forced to eat out of his hand. Often he used to come to our garden with the nightingales perched on his head. As a child I was delighted with the strange spectacle. The birds flew away and sat on the branches of the trees singing. Then suddenly the man whistled and they returned back swiftly, roosting on his head, shoulders and hands. This sight especially pleased me and I clapped my hands with glee as I watched them.  ABU1782

It is very strange indeed how many particulars of my earliest childhood always stick to my memory. I remember when I was four or five years old there was a very poor old man in our street whose name was "Insouciant."  When the season of poppies came around he filled his tray with them and brought around to sell them to the little boys. As he walked from one end of the street to another end he sang aloud these lines:  Green and verdant are my poppies/ Aha! Ahoy, come out, O boys!/ "Insouciant" is here with joys./  Hearing his voice I would run out of the house and buy his poppies. This "Insouciant" often gathered us children around himself and related to us many funny stories.  ABU2634

I cared more for hearing the Tablets of the Bab recited than anything else. I used to commit them to memory and repeat them. This was the greatest pleasure I knew in my childhood-my play and amusement. I was not fond of study, nor did I care for books.  At Bagdad I rode on horse back; at one time I had an idea that I would like to hunt. So on a certain occasion I joined a party of hunters and went with them to the chase. But when I saw them killing birds and animals, I thought this could not be right. Then it occurred to me that better than hunting for animals, to kill them, was hinting for souls of men to bring them to God. I then resolved that I would be a hunter of this sort. This was my first and last experience in the chase.   ABU2296

I [Nabil-i-A'zam] have heard the Most Great Branch, who in those days was a child of only eight years of age, recount one of His experiences as He ventured to leave the house in which He was then residing. "We had sought shelter, He told us, "in the house of My uncle, Mirza Isma'il. Tihran was in the throes of the wildest excitement. I ventured at times to sally forth from that house and to cross the street on My way to the market. I would hardly cross the threshold and step into the street, when boys of My age, who were running about, would crowd around Me crying, 'Babi! Babi'. Knowing well the state of excitement into which all the inhabitants of the capital, both young and old, had fallen, I would deliberately ignore their clamour and quietly steal away to My home. One day I happened to be walking alone through the market on My way to My uncle's house. As I was looking behind Me, I found a band of little ruffians running fast to overtake Me. They were pelting Me with stones and shouting menacingly, 'Babi! Babi!' To intimidate them seemed to be the only way I could avert the danger with which I was threatened. I turned back and rushed towards them with such determination that they fled away in distress and vanished. I could hear their distant cry, 'The little Babi is fast pursuing us! He will surely overtake and slay us all!' As I was directing My steps towards home, I heard a man shouting at the top of his voice: 'Well done, you brave and fearless child! No one of your age would ever have been able, unaided, to withstand their attack.' From that day onward, I was never again molested by any of the boys of the streets, nor did I hear any offensive word fall from their lips." ABU1472

On another day, the Master gave them a story out of His own life: "I was a child, nine years old. In the thick of those calamities, when the enemy attacked, they stoned our house and it had filled up with stones. We had nobody to help us. There was only my mother, my sister, and Aqa Mirza Muhammad-Quli. To protect us, my mother took us away from the Shimiran Gate to the Sangilaj quarter, where in the back lanes she found a house. In that house she watched over us and forbade us ever to set foot on the street. But one day the problem of how to get food became so urgent that my mother said to me: 'Can you go to your aunt's house? Tell her to find a few krans for us, no matter how.' "Our aunt lived in the Takyih of Haji Rajab-'Ali near the house of Mirza Hasan Kajdamagh. I went there. She tried everywhere and finally managed to collect five krans, which she tied up in the corner of a handkerchief and gave me. "On my way back through the Takyih, the son of Mirza Hasan recognized me. Immediately he called out, 'This one is a Babi!' and the boys ran after me. The house of Mulla Ja'far of Astarabad was not far away, and I reached it and went into the entry. The son of Mulla Ja'far saw me but he did not put me out. Neither did he rout the boys. "I stayed there till it was dark. When I left the place, the boys came after me again, shouting and throwing stones, following me until I got close to the store of Aqa Muhammad ?anduqdar. The children did not come on any farther after that. When I reached home, exhausted and terrified, I fell to the ground. My mother asked, 'What ails you?' I could not tell her. I simply fell down. My mother took the handkerchief with the money and put me to bed and I slept." Later He added, "There was a time in Tihran when we had every means of comfort and luxury, and then in a single day they pillaged our house and robbed us of everything. Living became so hard for us that there came a day when my mother took a little flour and shook it into my hand instead of bread, and I ate it like that." ABU1312

When I was a very little child in Teheran it became necessary and urgent that I should carry a message [of] great importance to the General of the army garrisoned about 30 miles away from the Capital. I was so small that it precluded of course my riding alon[e.] Therefore Abdul Vahhab Bay, our servant placed me before himself on the sad[le] of the horse and started out. It was the beginning of winter and the long stretches of hilly country was covered with great speed and without waiting refreshment anywhere. No sooner we arrived at the garrison than I was taken to Mostoufi-ol-Momalek. He showed me much kindness and consider[ation] and then I was introduced to Ameer-Nezam, the generalissimo of the army. H[e] inquired about the nature of my mission and in a satisfactory manner I explained to him my message. He listened to my words carefully and after weighing them he ordered them to be carried out according to my presentation and invited me to stay in the Camp for the night and leave for the city refreshed next morning. Abdul Vahhab Bay hearing the successful [result] of my conference with the general and wishing the good news to be carried back to my family immediately resorted to a stratagem to leave the garrison on the instant. Knowing my love of nature and pastoral scenes he came to m[e] and said: 'Little master! I know of a lovely village not very far from here[.] Why should you stay in this smoky camp. Let us go to that hamlet. It ha[s] many lovely gardens, fruit trees and flowers and its weather is so exhilarating and pure.' He praised so much the beauty of the place that I yielded to his persistence and we again rode on the tired horse. He kept me safe in front of himself on the saddle and lashed the horse mercilessly to add to its speed. On and on we sped along and every now and then I asked about the little hamlet but there was no answer. After hours and hours of racing I saw from afar the familiar walls of the Capital and the outlines of the buildings but I was so tired and exhausted that I could not raise a voice of protest. When we reached home and I was taken into the parlor on the arms of the servants I was already sleep but benumb[ed] with cold. A fire was made in the chimney and while I was kept in a remote corner my limbs were little by little warmed up. That night and the following day I could not eat anything and for more than two weeks I was like a child whose brittle organs and bones were crushed to pieces. ABU0968

