Cast aside patience and tranquility and associate with both friend and stranger with an eloquent tongue and a heart aflame  AB03347

Although these matters are not worthy of mention, yet his zeal in the Cause of God is great, and the arrival of visitors and guests is numerous.   BH03039

Like a blazing furnace they were in constant combustion and like the birds of the garden of the All-Merciful they sang with the most wondrous melodies   AB00323

May all the friends concentrate their thoughts on diffusing the divine fragrances so that signs and wonders may become manifest and evident in those regions.  AB07329

The more the mention of God and the Cause of God is made, the greater will become his spirituality, his attraction and enkindlement; otherwise he will become dry and withered.  ABU2185

One must arise to spread the word of God with a supernatural force and energy. I shall not rest one second as long as life lasts in this body. I will not seek comfort for one moment.  ABU0944

The friends must surely appreciate the value of these days and rise to serve the Faith with all their energy. Let them create a stir about them and rise with enthusiasm to spread the grace of God  AB09857

Striving meaneth this, that ye should live and move according to the divine counsels and admonitions and be filled with zeal and fervour, that ye should seek no rest and be engaged at all times in service.  AB04003

Be thou like a thirsty fish seeking the sweet and flowing waters. Be thou a burning moth seeking the light-giving candle. Be thou a sugar-eating parrot seeking refined candy. Be thou an early-rising bird striking heart-burning melodies.   AB04833

Be swift in the path of God and aim for a station higher than the heavens. The swift steed is ready and the vast arena is present. The ball of fortune exists and the polo stick of grace is in hand. It is time for galloping and seizing the ball from the field.   AB07287

He was truly on fire, driven by restive love. With great fervor he would pass through a country, bringing this best of all messages and reviving the hearts. He flamed like a torch in every company, he was the star of every assemblage, to all who came he held out the intoxicating cup.  AB00002

I entertain the firm hope that, through the bountiful favor of the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, this long wait of thine will culminate in a new effulgence: that is, that thou wilt discover a fresh ardor and devotion, and wilt kindle such a spark that the fame of thy love shall reach all quarters of the globe.  AB08565
