
Question: What is the relation of the Bahá'í teaching to the ancient Zoroastrian religion?  Answer: The religions of God have the same foundation, but the dogmas appearing later have differed. Each of the divine religions has two aspects. The first is essential. It concerns morality and development of the virtues of the human world. This aspect is common to all. It is fundamental; it is one; there is no difference, no variation in it. As regards the inculcation of morality and the development of human virtues, there is no difference whatsoever between the teachings of Zoroaster, Jesus and Bahá'u'lláh. In this they agree; they are one. The second aspect of the divine religions is nonessential. It concerns human needs and undergoes change in every cycle according to the exigency of the time. For example, in the time of Moses divorce was conformable to the needs and conditions; Moses, therefore, established it. But in the time of Christ,  169  divorces were numerous and the cause of corruption; as they were not suitable for the time, he made divorce unlawful and likewise changed other laws. These are needs and conditions which have to do with the conduct of society; therefore, they undergo change according to the exigency of the time. Moses dwelt in the desert. As there were no penitentiaries, no means of restitution in the desert and wilderness, the laws of God were an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Could this be carried out now? If a man destroys another man's eye, are you willing to destroy the eye of the offender? If a man's teeth are broken or his ear cut off, will you demand a corresponding mutilation of his assailant? This would not be conformable to conditions of humanity at the present time. If a man steals, shall his hand be cut off? This punishment was just and right in the law of Moses, but it was applicable to the desert, where there were no prisons and reformatory institutions of later and higher forms of government. Today you have government and organization, a police system, a judge and trial by jury. The punishment and penalty is now different. Therefore, the nonessentials which deal with details of community are changed according to the exigency of the time and conditions. But the essential foundation of the teachings of Moses, Zoroaster, Jesus and Bahá'u'lláh is identical, is one; there is no difference whatsoever.  ABU0006


Zoroaster too spent some time traveling in those regions. The Mount Qaf mentioned in traditions and narrations is this same Caucasus, and Persians believe it to be the nest of the Simurgh and dwelling of the Phoenix of the East.   AB01719

Likewise, mix with the Zoroastrians and establish the foundation of love.   AB02420

I hope that in the feast of the love of God thou mayest become unique and peerless, and in the spiritual battlefield thou mayest so utterly rout the armies of self and passion that a Nowruz celebration will arise and thou wilt gain victory over Ahriman.  AB01395

When the Muslims arrested the leader of the Zoroastrians and flogged him for drinking wine, under the whip he cried, 'O Muhammad of Arabia, what have you done! What an influence you have shown!'  AB09370

Do not be saddened or grieved by the actions of some foolish ones, for expecting consciousness from the proud is like expecting sunlight from the dark night - this is impossible and unattainable. The actions of this group are like the savagery of wolves and the sting of scorpions. They are steeped in pride and are leaders of evil people - what can be expected of them? It was these former leaders who issued the death sentence for Zoroaster and laid waste to Iran. In every age and time when the light of truth dawned, the leaders arose in denial and sought to resist the light of truth.  AB01401

O Zoroastrian friends! Every people among the peoples had their day of triumph, and on that day they held great festivities and established feasts of joy and delight. Today is your day, it is your time of joy and gladness, for the Persian Sun hath shone forth from the horizon of Iran and cast its rays upon all regions. Ere long Iran shall become the envy of the world and the Iranians shall become the object of the world's admiration.  AB08336

O friends of old - all Zoroastrians throughout all lands and regions, upon them be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!... praise be to God, in the garden of the Persians' hopes an incomparable sapling is growing with utmost power and might from the sprinklings of the cloud of bounty, the heat of the Sun of Truth, and the blowing of the breezes of eternal glory. Eternal grace and heavenly bounty have caused this sapling to grow again in Iran. This deserves thanksgiving, merits gratitude, and is worthy of praise and glorification of the One Lord. The brilliant star of the Persians' hopes had set and vanished in the West for a thousand years. Praise be to God, it has risen from the East of heavenly glory with utmost brilliance and radiance. A new cycle has come, fresh life has been attained. That spiritual spring which for a thousand years until now had passed through seasons of summer, autumn and winter, has come again with utmost freshness and grace with the hosts of divine bounty  AB00200

Even His Holiness Zoroaster that great one also made a journey to these regions and met with some of the Prophets of Israel.  AB02722

Shah Bahram made the spark of His Holiness Zoroaster into a mountain of fire and revealed the way and conduct of that noble one.   AB03233

It is hoped that all will become conscious, for the unfaithful priests have altered more or less the blessed book of Zand to remove the glad tidings of today. Know truly that the spirit of the great Zoroaster seeks refuge with the Lord from these sinful priests. See how faithless they are. And if the friends' hands are cut off from the work of the Master Jamshid, endless disorder will result. The Master should not accept this, for the friends strived in his work with heart and soul and with complete truthfulness and uprightness.  AB02524

Zoroaster is well-pleased with those who are seeing, not with the blind; He is content with those who hear, not with the deaf and dumb  AB08071

Gushtasp and Jamasp greatly promoted the religion of Zoroaster and strove with heart and soul until his blessed teachings encompassed the land of Iran and the holy fragrances perfumed and scented all nostrils.   AB04903

We smiled, we wept - both from joy, for the Persian friends have become so enkindled that they have forgotten the thousand-year-old lethargy and wilting, and have become pure and free from the contamination of the thoughts of ignorant priests. The wise priests are the candles of the gathering and the sweet-singing birds of the rose garden and meadow. They are the guides on Hoshidar's path and the light of the world of life-giving Bahram. In any case, the hope from the Sun of the celestial realm is that all the Persians of that country become the lords of the universe and the stars of the eternal heaven.  AB07302

"Our oldest language is 'Zend' which is closely related to the Indian Sanskrit. The holy books of the Avesta (Book of the Teachings of Zoroaster) are written in 'Zend'."  ABU0201

There are prophecies in the old Persian books that were taken to India long ago by Zoroastrians when they were driven from Persia. The old Parsi books are in India, for the Parsis fled to India.  ABU3167

The pure seed that His Holiness Zoroaster scattered sprouted with the rain of heavenly bounty and the field became green and verdant. The time of harvest arrived and it became a celestial blessing.   AB01984

In this wondrous Dispensation the Parsi people have shown such devotion that Zoroaster, may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him, hath become joyous in the realm of Heaven. They are indeed a noble people.   AB00138

For a thousand years or more, the Parsees were scattered, disorganized, lost and wandering. Now the auspicious star has become a guide, and once again the brilliant sun has shone radiantly from the East of Iran.   AB03420

Praise be to God that the Parsees are pilgrims to the Threshold and the Zoroastrians are near to the court of the Lord God. Among the Parsees, you arose to fulfill the covenant and testament of His Holiness Zoroaster  AB09226

The prophecies of the Zoroastrian (Norserry) plainly foretell the coming of the Bab and the Blessed Perfection, so in large number they have become believers, thought don't believe nor do they accept either the Bible or the Koran.   ABU0650

The Magis have resisted the Mohammedans for nearly 1,400 years, refusing to accept Mohammedanism, and suffered great persecutions. They accept and believe in the manifestation (Baha'o'llah) because of the prophecies of their books.   ABU1384

Praise be to God that ye have discovered the Faith of Shah Bahram and have been delivered from baseless tales. Ye have regarded the Revelation of His Holiness Zoroaster as glad-tidings and have acted according to the counsel of that noble one.  AB08083

Regarding what you asked about the passage in the Avesta, know that the meaning of the phrase is this: "Praise, glory and worship be unto the Lord God of the world, unto all the assembly, unto Shah Bahram Varjavand, unto Dastur Peshotan, unto the Prophet Oshidar, unto Oshidar-mah, unto Oshidar-bami, unto Saoshyant, unto King Kaykhusraw, unto the Zoroastrian religion, and we seek protection, help and favor from them and seek well-being," because in the Persian language the word "ra" is a particle of specification, and this is one of the meanings of "ra" which has other meanings as well. AB00767

In this wondrous cycle, spiritual springtime, divine spring, glorious century and luminous age of the Blessed Beauty, the heavenly Zoroastrian friends have been so moved to ecstasy and delight that they have become the cause of joy and happiness for other friends.   AB02427

Every region has its ancient inhabitants as foundation and basis, and in every land there are original dwellers who are knowledgeable and aware. Those friends are the ancient Iranians and praise be to God, in these days they are companions and intimates of 'Abdu'l-Baha.   AB01609

You had asked about the days of Zoroaster. In the histories there are different accounts about this, none of which are worthy of trust. What is true is that that luminous star rose between Moses and Christ, that is, approximately seven hundred and fifty years after Moses.  AB01846

You also wrote that after the Sassanians, the star of the fortune of the Zoroastrians set in the west of extinction. Outwardly it is as you wrote, but today is the Day illumined by the Sun of Truth... Today the Zoroastrians circle round the Manifestation of the command of the All-Merciful.   BH01934

As for Mahabad and Zoroaster, they are alluded to in the Qur'an, though none hath yet perceived this. For instance, the Companions of the Rass and their Prophets are mentioned, and this Rass is the river Aras, and these illustrious Prophets were numerous, including among them Mahabad and Zoroaster.  AB00940

Among the Persians, you arose to fulfill the covenant and testament of Zoroaster, hearkened to His glad-tidings, hastened along the straight path, and attained to your goal. The pure soul of that heavenly spirit in the supreme horizon is well-pleased and content with you, and at every moment offers profound praise.  AB09226

Regarding Partow-i-Yazdan and the shining star Zoroaster, you asked why their names are not mentioned in the Book of Certitude and what wisdom lies therein...However, in the blessed Tablets and holy Scriptures, mention of that embodied spirit and star of guidance has often been revealed with utmost praise and tribute.  AB01960

The radiant Mehr Hushidar of the divine world was the sun of the bright sphere that gave adornment to the garden of existence. And after him Bahram will illuminate his countenance and reveal his face, and will bring the world of spirit and heart under his signet ring, and will place the crown of divine kingship of the world  AB05845

O Bahram! Thou hast enquired about His Holiness Zoroaster. He came from God and summoned mankind to divine guidance. The fire of love was ablaze in His hand. Although he came with the fire of divine love and revealed the Book of laws and commandments, the heedless failed to apprehend His station and did not recognize His Revelation.   BH01711

"To the Persian Zoroastrian say: Awake, Awake! For the sun of your salvation hath arisen from the horizon of Persia. Ere long the ancient glory of your native land shall return, you will be honored amongst all the nations of the earth. Shake off your sleep! Ahuramazda has come and he shall make this world a paradise and its inhabitants the angels of heaven."  ABU0836

Thou hadst written that in the sacred books of the followers of Zoroaster it is written that in the latter days, in three separate Dispensations, the sun must needs be brought to a standstill. In the first Dispensation, it is predicted, the sun will remain motionless for ten days; in the second for twice that time; in the third for no less than one whole month.  AB01330

For many centuries the horizon of Persia was shrouded in darkness and the country of Iran was an open arena for the Arab, Turk and Tajik. Now the Sun of the Universe on High hath shone forth from the Orient of Glory and its Zodiacal Tower was the region and province of Persia. Therefore the Zoroastrians must commemorate that day like unto the auspicious New Year's day  AB09146

As to thy first question regarding the noble steed of Shah Gushtasp - this was a metaphor for that great one's spiritual journey and movement. That rider upon that horse was galloping in the arena of mystical unveiling and witness. The sinking of the horse's four legs into its belly indicated that the steed had ceased its journey. Then Zoroaster chanted verses that caused the horse's four legs to emerge from its belly, meaning that blessed steed resumed its movement and journey.  AB00576

The Zoroastrians must be very enkindled, very attracted, very independent after their search for Truth, and very sympathetic toward this Message of Brotherhood. For many centuries the sun of Persia had set; but it has now arisen with iridescent rays from the East of the Placeless. The luminary of their ancient glory and majesty has again dawned. Sousheyanss has come and instead of unifying only Persia, he is the Unifier of mankind. The Parsee community must greatly rejoice, for their Promised One hath come. The Orb of Persia's success and greatness is slowly rising, the Glory of the King of Kings is vouchsafed to them...  ABU1195

Among the holy Manifestations of God was Zoroaster. His prophethood is as clear and evident as the sun, His proof is effulgent, His evidence manifest, and His testimony decisive. When Zoroaster appeared, Iran was in ruins and the people of Iran were in utmost degradation. For a time there had been continuous warfare between Iran and Turkestan. During the reign of Lohrasp there was some peace, for Lohrasp was a servant of Truth and sought after reality. Then Gushtasp ascended to the throne. In brief, Iran was encompassed by the darkness of humiliation and abasement. It was at such a time that Zoroaster appeared. He illumined Iran and awakened and enlightened the Iranian people.  ABU0202
